ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24453	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the session to be attended by 149 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 164 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? I'm only asking for peace in the O.R. so the MPs can work, that's for the gallery. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24454	Thank you, Madam President. I have a few questions to ask you a number of addresses. One of those addresses I want to address is you, too, so let's start with that. First of all, do you know that we have put aside members from 209 to 216 by some congregation decision? Rules of Procedure? These are the members, just to remind you, which obliges you to call a session at which the ministers in the government would answer questions about the current topic at the request of any parliamentary group. The Democratic Party has already called for such a session twice, the session never took place. The first session we requested was a session at which we wanted ministers and competent people to answer questions about the May floods. You never called that session, although it is a session that does not depend on goodwill or the majority in the Serbian Parliament. The second session, requested by the DS, along with three other parliamentary groups, was requested last week, at which the government's competent ministers and four educational workers' unions would answer questions concerning the strike of educational workers. It is sad that you have disobeyed your commitment, because it is not something that you can decide by the Rules of Procedure, just as it is unfortunate that MPs who make up most of the Serbian Parliament did not want to discuss it, although the initiative was offered to everyone. I think that the strike of educators is a big problem, which is the biggest problem for those who are not to blame for the strike, and these are children, and it is completely unclear why the SNS does not want to discuss the problem in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Probably because it's a little uncomfortable when you look people in the eyes that teach our children, and they have a salary of 36,000 dinars, and you tell them that there are no 23m euros in their salaries in the budget, and that this law that you are about to adopt in the future with all the expensive costs will cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia 3.5 billion euros. So 23m euros for educational workers are missing, and the preparation of the ground for "Belgrade on Water" will cost 3.5 billion euros to build needed infrastructure. According to the same logic, Mrs Gojkovic, this is my question now to Aleksandra Vukic, it should be answered that it is possible that employees in "The Irons" are more important than employees in education, so for them can be an increase in salary of 10%, and employees in education cannot keep their salaries at a level that would remain below the republican average? Next my question, also referred to Mr. Vucic, which presents some strange data from the agreement with the IMF, which the government has otherwise pledged to publish, so it never did, and the question is – how are some of the things that are explicitly mentioned in the agreement subject to negotiations, and those that are not explicitly unable to change? I simply don't believe it, and we would know that the government fulfilled its obligation and announced that contract, that the IMF said that education workers' salaries should be reduced. They probably said the total amount of profit in the public sector should be reduced by 10%. Then, Mrs. Gojkovic, it was not necessary to cut the salaries of educators who have 36,000 dinars, but rather to cut salaries in many public enterprises, where the average salaries are several hundred thousand dinars, and we see that in some public enterprises, let's say today we see in the newspaper that the governor of NBS is again raising salaries in the NBS, where the average earnings are higher than 83 thousand dinars, and the governor and her associates, after the pay cuts, are raised to 578 thousand dinars. My second question to my fellow Members is – what about that "Right for Moms" law? You've all taken pictures with your mom, you've kept those signs, that law nobody ever mentioned again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24455	Thank you. The question is not going to the MP anyway, I haven't seen it yet in the Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to take it as an intruder, not as a question, and I have no one to pass it on to. This second question you asked the Prime Minister, of course, will be forwarded. As for the first one, you've confused me a lot. I responded to your request because the motion that you made, or the request for a session, was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, precisely with Rule 209. You've had three days to arrange it and submit it again as an orderly submission and a proposal to the president's parliament. So, what you said was sad in my case, I won't comment on it. I'm doing this job very seriously, and I'm going to understand either that you haven't come to parliament and you haven't looked at the mail, and maybe in these weeks you haven't been given that letter by the President of Parliament to arrange your request. As it has been three days, you will have to do again, if you are interested in one right way to schedule this session and invite the persons listed in Article 209, but the disorder did not refer to that part, but to the much greater failures you made when you submitted this proposal, and I suggest you look at the mail you received and act on that submission. So, the mistake is not to the President of Parliament, but to the honourable Members of Alexander Jerkov, to you this time. I'm sorry, it's not me. I haven't done the mail delivery in my line of work yet, so I'm sure you'll get it if you haven't, but it's very strange that you haven't. Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I find it strange too. ) An emissary of Alexander Jerkov throws – I find it strange too, so I ask him to enter the record. The word is Dr. Jankov Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24456	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am speaking to you, and regarding the fact that so far, in this term, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not received any answer to the parliamentary question from Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, no reply. You were in charge, the president left, so now he's talking to the Vice President of the Assembly, to see why the Prime Minister doesn't answer the question of the MPs. Mr. Prime Minister will be here today in the O.R. and please, Mr. Arsic, to ask Mr. Vukic why he does not answer the MPs' questions. For your information, I'll remind you what we asked and what we ask again. So we asked when and will the construction of cheap apartments in Belgrade start, 100,000 cheap apartments at the cost of 387 euros? The Prime Minister said that by the end of 2015, cranes will be all over the country and that apartments whose monthly payment will be 130 euros will be built. There's no crane, there's not even a crane in the model, and there's no answer from Mr. Wolf. One more question – when will it be and will it be the construction of cheap apartments? Even Mr. Gasic supported the idea and said that more than 20,000 persons, military persons and other officials do not have apartments. The second question has been asked several times to the Prime Minister and Minister Mihajlovic, which is why for a year the construction of the Žeželjev Bridge in Novi Sad is on the railway and passenger corridor and why this government is doing nothing to continue the construction of the bridge, especially since the EU, the Region and the city have provided long-term funds? For a year there have been papers and I ask you, Mr. Arsic, to pass on to Mr. Vukic when he comes to the O.R., that we have asked the question of why the works stand. Also, we asked what about the promise to produce Mercedes in the Icarbus factory in Belgrade? It was the government's promise that from Belgrade, the Icarbus factory, buses will come out with a Mercedes sign. There's no production even after seven, eight months after that promise, and even the bus that was made for painting hasn't been sold, it's still there. That's the factory's announcement. Also, I ask on behalf of the workers and employees of FAP, what about the promise that this factory will work and find a strategic partner? We didn't even get an answer to that question. Mr. Arsic, please ask Mr. Vukic why we didn't get an answer to that question. On the other hand, we asked several times what happened to the excessive borrowing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Now we ask, why out of the five billion euros that have been taken, for which we are in charge of infrastructure, for the construction of infrastructure, only a billion and 300 million euros has been activated, the funds withdrawn, and 3.7 billion have not been withdrawn, and that is why large interest is paid, and on the other hand, our construction operation remains unemployed? On the other hand, my colleague Marko Djurisic asked why we agreed to import 60m euros of coal when we did not need that coal? Only one third of that coal was delivered and this is what comes these days when spring and summer arrive, and we didn't need that coal, expensive coal from Romania. We asked Mr. Prime Minister, and we didn't get an answer, how does he think Serbian citizens live with their salary between 20,000 and 30,000, as well as pensioners, when the consumer basket is between 60 and 120 thousand dinars? Not everyone, Mr. Arsic, can you pass it on to Mr. Prime Minister, as an employee at the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. It's gonna be very hard to work here today because of the noise in the O.R. and the noise in the gallery. Mr. Arsic, please allow me to ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24457	Time, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24458	On the other hand, I wanted to ask what happened to the ending, what about the restoration of the Vojvodina Radio Television that was brought down in NATO bombings and why the Serbian government didn't do anything to get that building... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24459	Thank you, Mr. Veselinović. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, as I said last time, and now I will start by not asking, as distinguished opposition colleagues, or, say, from the Democratic Party and the former Democratic Party, in such a way as to beat as Maxim in the division, to ask a small million questions in a vague way and to mix grandmothers and frogs. We have heard that the workers of the Irons and the increase in wages in the Irons, which is a real sector and has nothing to do with the public sector and the budget, and especially those who advocate to join the EU, now know that they are, interfere and compare with educational workers or talk about high wages in public enterprises, and then talk about the salary of the governor of the NBS, as if it had something to do with each other. I'm, unfortunately, gonna talk about something that's been happening to us these days. I'd like to ask the guests at the gallery if they could be quieter. So, first of all, I'm going to talk about what happened and what's going on these days, and that's this horrible picture that's being taken and above all because of the Democratic Party's campaign about the accident that happened and the helicopter crash around the airport, "Nikola Tesla". In fact, such an accident has never been politicized in this way, it has never been so miserable, miserable, inhumane about something that was indeed an accident. I'll remind you of the 2009 case, the MiG-29 plane crashed in Batajnica, on 27 August 2009, an investigation into the plane crash was completed and it was concluded that it fell due to the error of Lieutenant Colonel Radet Rangelovic, when the pilot and another soldier of our army died. At the time, Minister Sutanovac rules out the possibility of using an invalid plane. No one, I recall, was a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, no one, not even on the Committee, asked the question, didn't want to politicise it, went to the media to comment on the report, did not call on the relatives of the deceased pilot and soldiers, did not use their grief and misfortune for their political points, neither at the Committee, nor at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor the party, no one reacted in such a way. When we criticised that government, Cvetkovic-Tadic, we only criticised it for its incompetence, of course, the government of the Democratic Party, only because of the corruption in which it was cut off, only because of the crime she did not fight, only because of 500,000 people who lost their jobs in their mandate. We've never dealt with a human accident like this before. I also have to say that I am saddened by the media image, and it seems to me that for the first time I can agree, although on the committees of European integration, I have defended the media image of Serbia and said that it is irrelevant and that we are going in a better direction, unfortunately, it is now seen in this case that all of us who are saying that the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Prime Minister is not pressuring the media, in this case it is seen. I talked to at least 20 journalists about that night. That night, Minister Gasic passed by my car at Pojat, I was returning from the official road from Albania, with me she was employed by Mrs Ivana Blagojevic, the driver of Srdjan, exchanging messages from the minister and I that night. The media attacked him that he was in Belgrade at the time of the accident, even though he wasn't. No one I've told them has published, no one, no one, even though I've witnessed, I have evidence on the phone, and it's easy to verify at the base station that we were then exchanging messages, that the man from Kruševec was on his way here at midnight when he was reported as an accident. And what could he be guilty of? Why is it a sin? For something he asked to take action that was humane and which was a legitimate mission, a completely justified mission. These attacks are inadmissible. Such behaviour in a democratic society is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24461	Time, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24462	That's why I'm repeating a question I didn't get an answer to. The Vojvodina Development Bank, when will the investigation of Vojvodina Development Bank and the loan the Democratic Party received from Vojvodina Development Bank be completed, under what conditions and did it repay it? I didn't get an answer to that question until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24463	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. My colleague, he had the exact time as well as your representative when he asked questions, minors in a second. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I would like to refer a few questions to the Minister of Finance, as the most responsible in the Government for the availability of budgetary resources, and I hope that this will draw his attention to some of the currents that he does not notice first. In fact, we passed the law by which the work went differently. On that basis, all employees suffered a serious material loss. One dissatisfaction on this issue exists among all employees in Serbia. Then their dissatisfaction increased the knowledge that there are primarily public enterprises that did not comply with the law, calling for a constitution older than the law and past work to be paid under the previous law. I am interested - is the Minister of Finance aware of this question, which is his interpretation and who is in fact right, those who pay off past work under the law that we passed in this Assembly during the winter of 2015 or those who are acting according to a previously applicable law, calling for the Constitution? So, this is causing a misunderstanding among the employees, causing certainly an unwarranted revolt against even the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that passed this law. The second question is also for the finance minister. In the context of the savings that we have all publicly promoted, savings primarily from the budget funds of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is fully justified, have also been announced by serious employment restrictions and public sector employees, and in various ways the public sector is able to address the issue of employees and the question of real, real business contractors. In this sense, the perpetrators, the employees, are often determined to go from one place to another place where someone retired, and now there was a missing worker and we don't receive a new one. These travel expenses for those who go to aid reach enormously high figures. Citizens, employed in the public sector, say the figures sometimes move up to 100,000 dinars per month. So is it more justified for one job, which costs 40,000, that travel expenses are still, with pay, reaching that height, or that someone should be employed in the place where someone retired? The third question, I repeat from earlier calls, was sent to Minister Dinkic on time. This is a question I was asked to ask primarily because of my citizens from Somboro because they know that some people have left the public sector and taken a serious severance to be employed elsewhere, not to be in the public sector anymore, that the public sector should be disbursed, and then re-employed in the public sector, and in the management jobs. It's pretty annoying to the citizens and it's a situation that's not new, it takes a few years back. I'm interested – will the finance minister check it out? Mr Dinkic responded in time that he had no such knowledge, ignored concrete knowledge, so I expect the new finance minister to check it anyway and seek out the right solutions and penalties for those who have allowed such damages in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24465	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, I am setting a break. We'll continue work at 11.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24466	Dear Members, we continue to work and move on to a principled search on the proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. According to Articles 89 and 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Siniša Mali, Belgrade Mayor Srdjan Kokotovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Aleksandar Damjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Radmila Jagodic, Assistant Minister of Finance Djordje Milic, Assistant Minister of Transport and Infrastructure and Saša Novakovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. You've received a bill from the government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours. How many of you for the Rules of Procedure? And you're the first. Balša Bozovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24467	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, member of the 85th prepare and convene session, the agenda of the National Assembly session is proposed by the president. Only those proposals for acts submitted pursuant to the Constitution, the law and this Rules of Procedure may be included in the draft agenda of the sitting. Since this item of the agenda could not be on the agenda, since it does not comply with this Rules of Procedure, its contents and its arguments, Article 59(4). An analysis of the effects of the regulations contained in the following explanations on whom and how it is likely to impact the solutions in the regulation, what costs it will generate for citizens and businesses, whether the positive consequences of the regulation are such as to justify the costs it will generate, whether the regulation supports the creation of new operators on the market and market competition. And attitude 5. - an assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law, i.e. regulations. Since this bill is not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest that it withdraw from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24468	Thank you, MP. You've suggested something that's impossible. It's impossible to pull the agenda, and we started the session a week ago. As for article 59, I think from one of your own personal and emotional charges that you've missed completely. Article 59 concerns the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Article 85.) No, you said 59. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Article 85, but Article 59. - reasons. ) Yes, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija really has nothing to do with my great regret, with this matter. Please, sit down, MP. No, you can't go to the Rules of Procedure. It means this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of my responsibility. Be kind enough to sit down and ask you a question. Sit down, please. Are we going to vote for the violation of the 59th and this second one you listed? Do you want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24469	Article 85. - Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24470	We'll vote half. Article 85. - Yeah. I can't see from the photographers, but the hand that raised her will get word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24471	I don't know how the hand can get the word, the person who raised her hand and asked for the Rules of Procedure to address you, Your Honor. Please listen carefully to what I'm saying, because I can see that you didn't listen to your previous colleague, so you said that he advertised a member of the Rules of Procedure that he didn't advertise. So, I'm telling you now by Article 97. Rules of Procedure, I propose that, as president, or representative of the parliamentary group, before the opening of the search, he has the right to propose a longer search period for parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1(1). Since today, although it is not the last Thursday of the month, and the prime minister, and a number of members of the government, a large number of MPs and some of the people at the gallery, and you have not given us the notice that this is about, I suggest, given the importance of this topic, that we extend the debate, or double the time foreseen for discussion in the parliamentary groups. I believe that even representatives of the parties who support the government, and we from the opposition, have the desire and need to say a lot of things about the law that is on the agenda today, so I urge you to put this proposal before the Assembly to declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24472	Okay, so it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've got a stenogram and you'll see that he's called for an explanation for article 59. Don't wave your hand, just a little effort, and you'll read it as an MP. You stopped me from hurting the Rules of Procedure to say who was present at the session today, which is what we used to do, so I just couldn't present it. So, honourable Members of Parliament allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, the representatives of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, as well as the presidents of the city municipalities and other appointed persons in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade who are currently following part of today's session from the grand hall gallery, and I ask you today to welcome the guests to this session. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Mark Djurisic to double the time of the debate. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 184 out of the 214 members of the people present did not vote. You didn't pass the proposal. Here you go. Please, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure again, just please, if you use too often the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure we'll have to apply the time-consuming measures, because it's impossible for someone to hurt the Rules of Procedure without even starting to work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24473	Thank you, Mr President, I think you should wait until you hear my explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then make a statement, not in advance, to say whether or not I abuse the Rules of Procedure, the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Article 27. – The President of the National Assembly shall represent the National Assembly, convene its meetings, chair them and perform other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. I understand that this Rules of Procedure in Rule 27 has been injured because today you said yourself that you have called the Council of the City of Belgrade, the Belgrade municipalities. We are discussing a law that, as far as we could hear in the debate before this session and the reasoning is important for the Republic of Serbia. I would like to know why you did not invite representatives of the City Assembly of Vrana, Leskovac, Užica, Cačka, Niša, Subotica, Zrenjanina, meaning all citizens of Serbia concerned by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24474	Ambassador, you're giving a speech. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador, you can't do that. So, I didn't open a debate with the MP, but you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're not going to elementize who's invited, who's not invited. I didn't invite anyone, as I don't call elementary school students, high school students, from political sciences who call some of your MPs, let's say, sports law and we've had various international agreements. It wasn't about them personally, but they showed a desire to attend the session. This is just a form of notification, and I'm not gonna take two minutes of your time, even though I have the right to do so after you misused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Please sit down and allow us to continue our work. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I want to make a statement. We have nothing to talk about, I won't put you to the vote because you haven't talked about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Please, you must plead. I accept your apology, but I apologize to you for having a good understanding of what you want to do. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I did not apologize to anyone. So let's get back to concrete work. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle on the draft law and asking the representative of the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia if he wants a word? Yeah. Please just sign in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24475	I apologize, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear guests, it is an extraordinary honor for me today to speak of this subject in front of this high house. I think it's an extraordinary opportunity to resolve many of the misunderstandings today, to discuss a very important project for all of Serbia today, and to say, to make the best conclusions in the interests of our people, our citizens and our Serbia. Big cities as well as countries were built on great dreams, visions and projects, whose size has always threatened at least one part of the people. History, ideas and ideas of Belgrade's descent to the Sava date back to the time of the great and wise Knjaz Milos, who still insisted that traders could settle in this space and then the order of Sava Mala was started. He moved her residents to Palilu, destroyed the existing houses of weak material and made a decision to build new houses. Soon the construction of new ones began, and the refurbishing of existing cafes modelled Europeans. The extremely rapid development of Belgrade and Serbia along the Sava River takes place between 1841 and 1861, and of course, especially during the days of Knyaz Michael. That's when the habitation of merchants in Sava Mali begins. And from that time on, we have one of the most beautiful houses, the house of Luka Celovic, which is located directly across from the Belgrade Co-operation building or the Geozoda, depending on who, as well as how he remembers it. Serbia continued to turn this part of the city into the most important, and in 1884 a railway station was built. Five years later, in 1889, the Commission for the Determination of Borders of Varoshi believes that the Sava Varoš should expand towards the Sava in order to encourage trade, which meant formal entry of the city's district. The 20th century has brought Belgrade a better connection with Europe. The breakthrough of the new century, the breakthrough of Europe, felt the most in the Prisavian part of the city, because in 14 years until the start of World War I, this part of the city was formed urbanistly, the streets were regulated, the plot was made, the construction of the docks and keys, the building of the primary school, the construction of the first monetary institution in Serbia, the finally crowded Bar Venice. A far-reaching decision has also been made to extend Karadjordjeva Street to the railway station. Clearly, that front street area around the small market has become prestigious. In 1906 a project was carried out for the Belgrade Co-operation Building, which was signed by architects Nestorovic and Nikolic. Of course, the French architecture of that time had a special impact on them. They also visited the Paris exhibition in 1900 and built one of the most beautiful buildings. This building, I want you, the honourable MPs to show it, is really on the outside lines, with their shape, perhaps the most beautiful building in Belgrade. She looked like this just a year ago, so you can all see. And then we said, let's try to fix something, something to change in just a year from that work, and many have tried different misinformations, untrues to talk about how a pub has been done so far, not telling the truth, and look, we've turned this magnificent building, I'd say to today, absolutely one of the most beautiful buildings in the whole Balkans, both on the outside and on the inside. And since I know that many will laugh, that smile cost someone four million euros, fortunately not Serbian citizens, but an investor who wanted to show his good will to participate in a major project such as "Belgrade on Water". [[Applause]] The Belgrade citizens today have in that part, one of the most beautiful buildings, and as once did, and in that time I remember, he spoke, and few who believed, and in many things perhaps I couldn't agree with Mr. Mrkonjic, but when he talked about Arena Novobegradska, he said that the development project was, after that, only after building the Arena that part of New Belgrade became the most expensive and at the price of squares and at the cost of business space and everything else. The arrangement, then, we are going, in the early 20th century to edit these streets, the whole association and the bidding arrangement was given to the famous Belgrade builder Jovan Sevdić, of course, after a short time, the construction was cut off due to technical problems, and above all due to lack of money. Although the unimplemented idea of Key is the first idea of getting the city off the coast, until then all Serbian giants have always talked about Belgrade's fear of water and of turning the rear facades and the water yard. This time there was a desire to overcome that fear. The last intervention in Sava Mali, ahead of the outbreak of World War I, was the construction of a square, right in front of a Belgrade cooperative or building of the Geozoda, as you will. In the time between World War I and World War II, this fear of landing the city on the river, as if it had prevailed and only one rental, modernist building was built on a regulation withdrawn in Karajordjevo 36 and nothing was done for several decades. After World War II, there was always a desire and an idea to bring Belgrade down to the rivers just as it was done in the largest cities around the world. Construction of new streets, squares, parks, residential and business buildings, museums, schools, sports grounds in the place of "Beograd na Voda", all Belgrade's general plans since the 50th century. I want to tell you that I thought that during this modern period it was the idea of some who were talking about Europol, Metropolis, whatever they called it, so I thought we were revitalising it somewhere or restoring it. No, the idea was renewed during the former regime, at a time when the mayor of Belgrade and I thanked him for it, was Mr. Gilas, namely, at that time in 2009, the head of the Urban Institute or the City Building Office, the Urban Institute, Mrs. Gligorijević, said that Serbian Manhattan would be in the area. I reckon when she talked about Manhattan, she meant Madison, Park Avenue, Fifth Avenue, sixth, seventh. I don't think she meant those broads in Harlem. We're very grateful for that. In the election campaign, we were talking, and when I brought Big Giuliani here, that's what I was talking about and talking about, those dreams of ours, and those are the dreams of us Belgraders, and the reason is simple. With everyone talking today about Belgrade's most beautiful part, the most beautiful part of Serbia, I was born in Belgrade. I don't think that's an advantage, and I'll never think I'm better than the one who was born in Piroth, Subotica, Krushevac, King, Chačka or any other place. I have lived here my whole life and I will not allow anyone to love Belgrade as well as Serbia more than I do, nor do I plead that I love Belgrade and Serbia more than anyone else. But what did we do afterwards and want to show? We wanted to show that it doesn't have to be the biggest mockery of our city. When I say the biggest mockery of our city, I don't have to tell you, and I've brought the photos that I'm going to show you in the course of the debate, that we're here except for 52 wrecks, of which you couldn't see, of course, dirt and three sewers, you've never been able to see ducks that are advertised, you've never been able to see anything alive near "Belgrade on Water", except for people who, by the circumstances, had to live in the most difficult circumstances and the most difficult conditions to live, where we could see, this building of the Geo-Industry, the Belgrade Cooperatives, it's been used by junkies for night gatherings, unfortunately, and for some of the much uglier shops, which I'm ashameds making money and where they come together. On the other hand, what else did we have? We had asphalt and concrete bases. We had a casino to remind you that even the great Branko Pesic had done a trick that Josip Broz Tito had persuaded in fact to go into a major traffic project, a major infrastructure project to move the railway station from Prisavia to Prokop, when he showed him the casino that had stopped Tito, and then it was decided to move the railway station, not today. It's been working for 20 years, since 1996, if I'm not mistaken, we've been working on it, and all we've had in that space are the hooks, the romans, and nothing else. We would like to inform you that in January until St. Sava next year we will finish the Prokop station and will finally be in use after 20 years. For "Serbian Manhattan", as popularly called by my colleagues from other political parties, there were more competitions. Domestic and foreign architects offered attractive drawings, architectural competitions were called, studies were made. The two competitions were particularly interesting, international in improving the structure of New Belgrade in 1985 and for the third millennium organised by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 1991. One of the seven teams that participated in the competition was architects Antonija Antić, Dragoljub Manojlović Dick, Slobodanka Prekajski and Milica Toma. Their project "Varoš na Voda" connected the left and right bank of the river with a network of canals with an artificial island in the middle and residential business and catering facilities. Then, in 1996, the Europol project was launched, an international competition was not launched. None of the ideas mentioned to date, therefore, have been realised in the previous 70 years. Realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project will restore numerous facades in Savamala, an entire street string in Karadjordjeva street, and all objects declared as monuments of culture will look from the beginning of the 20th century. I want to inform you that the building of the Belgrade Cooperative, you have seen what it looks like, will be even nicer to get the Hotel "Bristol", that it will be even nicer to get the building of the Railway Station in Belgrade, and the building Post, which had the most beautiful facade for people who don't know it, and which, for me, is, for an unknown reason, the communist flair and destruction, will be removed, restored and shown to Belgrade in its most beautiful light, and in the 100 per cent amount, it will, therefore, belong to the 100 per cent volume of this will belong to the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia. I want to point out a few things that those who wanted to build a lot of things have always faced. I have to admit that I didn't expect this kind of resistance to modernization, this much resistance to progress, this much resistance to something that we didn't have the money for, and what there's a possibility or a strong belief in us that we managed to provide money, by chance, is the most important thing, of all that we're talking about today, we can talk about everything, most importantly, whether you have money for a project or not. I will remind you of the history of public resistance when building the most important monumental objects around the world. You will also be reminded of some laughs, and it seems to me that some of the things that I'm about to bring will point to you both ours and mine and some of us, the palanic spirit of today. The history of the Eiffel Tower begins with the last name of the man who designed it. At the time, he was working on Eiffel designing the tower. First, he presented his drafts to officials in Barcelona and Spain. The Spanish were neither satisfied nor impressed. They didn't like the design, it looked weird, they thought it was too expensive, they thought it was going to collapse. Gustavjfel traveled to Paris, presented the sketches to the authorities there. The authorities of Paris have accepted this project. However, the projected tower became the subject of the largest controversy until the pyramid of the time of Francois Mitteran, which was built in front of the Louvre itself, in the history of France, so. They said it was impossible to build it, they had objections on an artistic basis, they said a famous group of 300 in which they were numerous artists of that time, they said it couldn't work, and that it would collapse. Many prominent among them and the richest Parisians began to sell their apartments from around the Eiffel Tower. Count today how much money they lost. Ifel said - My tower will be the largest building the human hand has built. Won't he be just as grand? Would something worthy of admiration in Egypt become disgusting and ridiculous in Paris? He had strong faith in this, along with his strong faith and with the support of the Paris authorities, he succeeded. They tried to tear it down in the early 20th century, but someone smart stopped them. The Eiffel Tower today brings tens of millions of euros of pure profit to both Paris and France. The glass tower or "Shard of Glass" built in 2013 in London, very interesting, you will see why, similar to building, architectural, I am not professional, as something we plan to do here. "Shard of Glass" is a 87-story building built in downtown London, near London Bridge. The investors came from Qatar. Of the above mentioned, only so much about the disgust of some on Arab investors. Of the 80 floors mentioned, as many as 72 floors are exclusive living space. This building of a spic structure that comes out of the Thames River from its 309 meters is the highest building in the entire European Union. She crossed the Komerc Bank in Frankfurt of 259 metres. Why important, I'll tell you later when I talk about architects working on "Belgrade in Water". Why is this example important? Great Britain is I think known as the land in which the laws and rule of law reign. In July 2002, then Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott ordered an analysis of the regularity and realization of such a project, as they saw the design of this facility and its construction fiercely opposed the wonders of the Commission for Architecture and the Royal Parks Foundation, believing that such an object was rose by London. The analysis was carried out in April and May 2003 and in November 19th, the British government agreed to continue to plan and realise this project, despite fierce opposition to the good work of the public. The explanation among other things contained details stressing that this is one object of exceptional architectural design and great stability, and that its construction is of great economic benefit, throughout the city of London. Although the financial crisis has slowed down the construction dynamics, the facility has been successfully built and today represents the pride and symbol of the city of London. A year after the construction, this facility receives the first prize for the most beautiful building built in the previous year, at the famous "The Emporis Skyscraper Award" fair, and having business or residential space in this building today has become a matter of prestige in the whole world. More than 1,500 workers were hired at all times only to build rough works on this facility. The following is interesting – many and prominent experts in London rebelled against the construction of this facility, not just members of the Royal Commission, and part of the public supported critics. They felt that such an object was not for London and that it would fuel the city. However, it did not prevent the government from looking to the future, from favouring economic effects for London and the country. In the end, it turned out that the building was accepted, and the project has brought great benefits to London and the UK. The World Voice Architect Renco Piano built the Pompidu Centre in Paris, or the New York Times building. He felt that the rebellion of the works of the citizens was nothing new and that it was a typical fear of changing innovation, characteristic of the whole world. Ken Livingston, mayor of London from 2000 to 2008, facing criticism from the public about this and other projects, once said – today I feel like Galileo, who before the Inquisition explains that the country is turning around the sun. Later we can also talk about the "Visitor Center" in Cambridge, Britain and many other examples in the world, but I will show you what it looks like in our Serbia and what it looked like in our Belgrade. Albania's palace was built in 1940, and at that time it was the highest building in the Balkans. In addition to the underground waters that made it difficult to build, we have this problem today, this problem has also been the building of Usce, had been solved, as well as many buildings everywhere in the world, where it is being built and where the Shiphol Airport was built in Amsterdam, not to speak, but modern methods and serious builders have easily overcome and solved it. So the locals also obstructed the construction of this building, because they thought the Albanian Palace was a threat to surrounding buildings and that the building from this height would collapse into the ground and pull with it and other buildings. Everyone was spreading lies, and as you know, some even started out of fear and moving. As you know, the building not only didn't sink, it became a symbol of Belgrade at that time. We have another more interesting example. In 1880, the first light bulb in the "Hamburg" pub was lit in Belgrade, where today's Belgrade Power Distribution, near Belgrade, is for those outside Belgrade, so they don't know. So the first light bulb in the "Hamburg" pub shined. What happened? She was private and was not in the public debate system, as the Belgrade municipality was just about to introduce her. However, the introduction of electricity in Belgrade has been very difficult. All have rebelled and no more rebellion has ever been recorded until the introduction of public lighting in Belgrade. The population felt that the electricity had brought unrest into their lives, that the city had been mutilated by setting up ugly pillars and so forth. There were examples of roses and falling pillars. Unlike electricity, candles, oil and gas seemed much safer. Even at that time, a councilman raised his voice, saying, "We don't need that light, for an honest man goes to sleep early, and let the bastard break his head." However, the strong will of the Varoshi administration at the time ensured that Belgrade would receive a public hearing. When the lighting was introduced, but only when the lighting was introduced, most citizens liked it, but the fear of electric lighting didn't go away. Many have used pre-prepared garrets, believing that bright light and light bulbs can blind them. Does that remind you of those stories that you get from the power lines the cancer we've been listening to in this National Assembly? The decision to electrify Belgrade's public light is adopted in 1890, while the first electric light bulb from the public lighting system begins to shine at the corner of Kolarchev and Macedonia in 1893. We had protests about building a department store on Knez Michael Street, we had broken windows, one passerby was wounded, for the simple reason that some did not want to see the changes and see foreign traders come to Belgrade. We had protests over the construction of the Gazel Bridge and the adoption of a Lex specialis in the Assembly of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I brought, dear friends, to show you because in the previous days some criticise it, and for every major project, for every project of national importance, you'll see for some less important, for which they brought lex specialises, such laws were passed, was essential. This is a copy of "The Official List of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" from 1966. Lex specialis was presented on the proposal by Branko Pesic, signed by Federal Executive Council President Petar Stanbolic, by hand, Decision on the conditions of use of the Federation's funding for the construction of the "Brother and Unity" section on the territory of the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, point 1. – bridge across the Sava River without construction for lateral descending ramps on the left bank of Sava. So, and that's when we brought the lex specialis. What happened? It bothered people why, because we lived in poverty, as if Serbia had ever lived in wealth, because we have always lived, and even when we are much richer, we will always live in poverty because we have never been well and will never be well. And at that time there were protests about why we went with three plus three strips, why we went with six strips, because there aren't so many cars in Serbia, there's not so many vehicles, there's not so many needs, and there's a lot of people being able to live differently, people could live better if those money wasn't spent. Interestingly, today we have a little three lanes in both directions. We wish Branko Pesic was even more persistent. Yes, we wish he were alive, our deficit wouldn't be 20.25% like some others did to us at the city level. I'm just asking you not to throw it at me, because you know that games with me can never win. It is better for you that I look back on what is the essence of this debate today. However, those who, believe it or not, saved this project of building Gazela, with everything we have to say about it, about the way we rule and everything else, was Joseph Broz Tito. And he said, he stopped that kind of criticism, stopped that kind of attack, even though the works were late for lack of money. Then comes the modern idea of the Sava amphitheater, where Branko Pesic deliberately orders people from the lodge to let smoke be seen, to feel the marshal's odour and to allow it to remove all of this from the Sava amphitheater's space to Prokop's space, to ensure Belgrade's descent to the rivers. The Belgrade Palace, a famous Belgrade woman, built between 1969 and 1974, is one of the most significant achievements in Belgrade's architecture since the late 1960s, the news inscriptions on Belgrade's population are – the anti-Symbol of Belgrade, a black citizen, a sick palace. We went so far that one of the most important and important journalists of the time, Mr Nebojsa Curčić, in the text entitled "The Sick Palace", wrote the following – according to the doctor's assessment, of course, as today, you do not know which, 80% of Belgrade's employees have difficulty with breathing organs. Is there a problem with the breathing organs that works in Belgrade? I don't think anybody's here, and I don't think anybody did. But what to do, that's something we had to live with in that period. The gates of New Belgrade, the Genex Tower, were then the so-called The Styrofoam affair that ended in front of the Supreme Court in 1979 over the conflicts of urbanists, builders, engineers and all others, so they talked about the greatest mockery and how it could have been without it. Now, there's only one thing in all of this, all of us built it with our own money, and it was all good and significant for our country, and for the first time we're talking about what it is that we're going to do most of the time with other people's money, because we don't have our money anymore. We spent our money on the irresponsible policy of those who had won the elections and always before the elections increased salaries and pensions or for the creation of certain coalition agreements, no economic logic built up and destroyed our country's future. There are multiple reasons for the adoption of a special law that will allow the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". It's not a law of local or regional importance. It's a law of importance for the whole of the Republic, it's a law of importance for each of our citizens, because thanks to that law we will employ tens of thousands of people. Thanks to this law, we will employ our construction industry. Thanks to this law, we will ensure the growth of the entire tertiary sector in the years ahead of us and in Belgrade and Serbia. The papers in relation to the General Expropriation Act are that, and we could wait and pass the Capital Investment Act, we would only lose a new two or three months in making a contract with the investor. It is that the Expropriation Act is general law. Article 20(1) provides that public interest in expropriation can be determined when it comes to housing building, only for the construction of apartments that address the housing needs of socially endangered persons. Lex specialis, this special law determines public interests in building a business-house complex. An expropriation proposal shall be submitted under special law within five years of the date of establishment of public interest, and within the general law, that deadline shall be one year. The reason for the longer term is the size of the project and the effort to disburse the republican budget. The procedural deadlines set out in the special law are three days, eight days, 15 days, and these are usually deadlines which are characteristic of the shortened procedure under the General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition to paying the market value for the expropriated assets, the special law also allows for the negotiation of forms and the level of compensation, i.e. the exchange of other immovable property, as well as the general law, but there is an explicit provision of the possibility before the adoption and the rightfulness of the expropriation solution, if there is an agreement between the parties. In both laws, which is a constitutional provision of compensation for the claimed right of property is determined and paid in a marketable amount. I want to, then you'll get the exact information to see how many of the 246 objects, 179, if I'm not mistaken, we've already managed to move out, and I'm going to show you where people lived and I'm going to show you what these people are saying today, which they're provided with either apartments in their property or renting housing for five years or renting apartments for a year. Olivera Kalamarević, it's about living people, people who talk today about what happened after decades of waiting, moved out of that part that we all think will be the most beautiful part of Belgrade in the future, and who, will agree, has recently been the mockery of our city. She says, "I still don't understand what's happening to me, we've been here since the '70s and we've been strangled by an asphalt base, we can't breathe, all the smoke is falling and choking, and I've been drying the laundry at night when the base doesn't work, because it's cleaner than when it's drying. I lived in 48 square meters, and now on the White Waters, in a beautiful 54 square-square apartment, I also have a terrace." She says that the streets, where she lived, not lit up, took her long walk to the first store, and the stray dogs not to talk. For moving into the new apartment Olivera Kalamarević says - this is a big deal, neighbor I'm going to civilization now, so far I've lived primitively. Miroslav Rakovic moved to White Water, the Krsmanovic Brothers 28b lived. "After 50 years of life and waiting for a move, I finally welcomed that day. I'm a little excited, given that many have boasted and since 1973 they've been talking about Europol, "Belgrade on Water". It was all falling into the water, and I didn't believe it would come true. Thank you, everyone, for after so many years I get a safe roof over my head and me and my family." Gavro Tesic moved to Vojvodjanska Street in New Belgrade. "Here where I lived and where I moved is the earth and the sky, the children began to cry with joy when they saw an apartment with central heating and each of them had its own room." Slobodan Lukovic, who moved to Denkova Basta, received 90 square meters, Radomir Ivoovic. Look, please, what conditions have these people lived on, in what someone's been telling us today is that for 70 years it's the most exclusive location, and I have a simple and simple question, some have been in power for 15, some 50 years, and why in those 70 years what we see here, these ugly pictures, these hard pictures to look at, why have these pictures been everyday for 65 and 70 years? That's what we want to change, we want it to be the most beautiful part of the city, be the most beautiful part of Serbia and be proud of it. It's about public interest. According to Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the right of property may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest established under the Law with a fee which cannot be lower than the market. The Constitution does not further regulate what is considered a public interest, within the meaning of Article 58. Laws establishing public interest: the European Convention on Human Rights, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the case law in the Republic of Serbia. For "Belgrade on Water" is particularly important, as I count that here all the political parties who advocate to join the EU, the family of European peoples, the jure of the European Court of Human Rights, and above all its next views. In the cases of Sporong and Lenrot in Sweden, the position is taken to force the transfer of property from one person to another, therefore, not to the state, can be a legitimate goal in the public interest. Similarly, in the case of James and others vs United Kingdom, where the European Court of Human Rights takes the view that the confiscation of property has been carried out in order to achieve legitimate social, economic or other policies can be in the public interest, even if the wider social community cannot directly use or directly benefit from the confiscated property, which, by the way, is not the case. Judicial practice in the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia dealt with expropriation in cases where public interest is determined by the government's decision, and that is because no party to the expropriation decision was involved in determining public interest. In this way, the Constitutional Court did not deal with cases where public interest was established by law. As for court practice in the region, the most important case-law for us is the case law in Republika Srpska from which you can draw similar, almost identical conclusions with the conclusions of European jurisprudence. Public interest in theory. You have, of course, more theories, political and legal, than aggregate, unitary, common interest theory, through urban planning theory, processive, material. We tried, I would say, that in the best possible way, by taking what really is the most valuable thing for one society in general, for one country, for its economic and social progress, in this sense we use and interpret the public interest, which seems absolutely legitimate and legal. Legitimity and legality cannot be challenged, particularly given the fact that the right-hand coast of Sava is subject to a series of plans, Belgrade's general urban plans from 1972 and 1985, as well as a programme for the urban plan of the Sava-based amphitheatre of the Belgrade Urban Institute and which clearly testifies to the legitimacy and objectives of this project back in the generations, among urbanists, architects and public authorities. Legitimity is disputed, primarily by the work of people, from a procedural understanding of the concept of public interest, since the main point of criticism is the procedure that precedes the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project, whose final stage is the adoption of the law. This direction of criticism comes, not from formal lack of procedure, because the formal legality of the procedure can be challenged, but from a lack of legitimacy. This direction of criticism, of course, is primarily theoretically and valuablely directed, essentially and in practice does not produce any result. I would like to say that we have managed to determine the public interest of the law, to carry out the rule of law test, since the bill provides for the right to appeal and administrative dispute. Of course, constitutional appeal is possible, which sanctions arbitration, and the legal text itself is very accessible and precise. It fulfils the legitimate objective test, given that it is a project that serves to achieve the objectives defined by the strategy and fulfils the necessaryness test in a democratic society, given that a particular nature of necessity is necessary, the necessity is proportionate, since expropriation is limited to territorial and third party transfer is limited in a manner described in response to the previous question. There is a threshold of tolerance, given that in the previous period, in the Serbian legal system, there have been similar cases of expropriation under a special law. I will remind you, I am sure, in the discussion of the Project and the law that we adopted in 2008 or 2009, where we were "Yugorosgas", where we owned only 20% of the owners, as a state, gave a complete highway through our country, and by bringing a Lex specialist in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the status of the project "Belgrade on Water", the spatial plan of the specific purpose area was adopted at the cabinet session on 31.12.2014. This plan is the basis for establishing public interest in the location of the Sava amphitheatre which has established the basis for the adoption of a special Expropriation Act. Something about property-legal status, don't be angry that I've been talking about for a long time, this is a valuable and important thing, as we've been preparing for economic reforms, whose results you're beginning to see for yourselves, and you'll see them before the end of the year, citizens will feel them before the end of this year, and not before the end of next year, as I promised in May, so I prepared myself for this debate. So, as regards property-legal status, the mayor of Belgrade has concluded since 4.7.2014 and the change of conclusion of 13.8. The Belgrade Building and Construction Directorate recommended that given the importance of the location for the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project, a list of immovableities was carried out and the task formed a task force to carry out the entrusted task as soon as possible. In the area of phase 1 of the project, which extends to about 40 ha, it has been identified exactly 246 objects which are located in different property-legal statuses from legal, legal with an upgraded illegal part and fully illegal. All legalisation requirements relating to facilities in this area have been rejected or rejected. A total of 179 facilities were removed on 4.4.2015. So from 246 objects, to this day we've managed to remove 179 objects. So much for those who said nothing was done, nothing was achieved. That even on the side, we leave this beautiful building of the Belgrade Cooperative, perhaps the most beautiful building in Belgrade, to leave what we have arranged for certain markets, which has become a development project that accelerates every other type of construction and, above all, the development of the territorial sector, we have succeeded, some have failed in 70 years, or we have failed all together in 70 years, and some have managed to remove 179 of the 246 objects in the area of "Belgrade on Water" in these 40 ha. The funds for removing, since there were various stories and some billions were mentioned, funds for removing these facilities in the phase 1 area of the project provided Belgrade with about 30m dinars, amounting to about a million euros. I think that given the goal that we have achieved and what it looks like today in relation to what it looked like, so small money, and I'll remind you that only that scaler in New Belgrade that's been torn down today, which doesn't exist, that's supposed to be some fake monument in New Belgrade, that "face" terrassic cloth cost us 650,000 euros, it's gone. Just so you know how money was spent and how money is spent today. The final solution to property-legal issues is possible only after the adoption of a special Expropriation Act. For the expropriation of land and all objects, about 40m euros is needed for the entire area of the first phase of the project. What's very important to us, we've isolated some of it from the budget, and we'll find some funding from investors. To this day we have signed a contract with 86 families from the first stage, four families have left the site on their own, which makes up a total of 90 families who have left the location. So far, all 100 families living there have been visited by the Building Land and Construction Directorate of Belgrade and with the other ten families in the coming period expect contracts to be signed. On 22.7.2014, the City Assembly decided to amend the Position Plan for setting up a vessel on the part of the waterfront on the territory of the city of Belgrade on a move from Brank Bridge to the "Gazela" bridge. So far, on the basis of the decision, 24 ships, mostly wrecks, will remind you what it looked like, the company Ivan Milutinović, where the vessels of BBP, two marinas, as well as the rafts of Lasta and Hua Hua. There are 11 other ships left at the site to extract submerged vessels and relocate companies "Ivan Milutinović" and BBP. 90 families were displaced, of which four families for their legal dwellings took money totaling 51.1 million dinars, 79 families received apartments of the following structure: eight apartments owned, 30 apartments with the right to purchase indefinitely, 32 apartments for rent over a period of five years, nine apartments rented over a period of one year. All transparent and clear. Six families without any legal basis have displaced "The Railways of Serbia". Since the value of eight apartments that have been given in property is almost equal to the amount of purchases that the city expects for 30 allocated apartments for an indefinite period of time, the total cost of moving to date is about 51 million dinars, and I just want to tell you that the scale from the copy of the New Belgrade terraces that was torn down cost 70 million dinars. As long as you keep in mind the benefits and the damages or both for both projects. In 2014, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure singled out 60 million dinars for the preparation and completion of a special purpose plan done by the Department of Urbanism. So, summed up until now, and I think we've done a lot of work, and so far we've managed to make it, our Arab partners have invested more than we have invested in this project. Only the reconstruction of the Belgrade Co-operation building cost between 3.5m and 4m euros rather than everything the city of Belgrade has done so far. What's very important is that some people interfere, and there is no direct connection to "Belgrade on Water", is already part of our earlier projects, primarily traffic projects. Of course, our wish is from 30 years ago, then 20 years ago when we started the work to clean the whole area and to change the rail infrastructure both direction and direction, i.e. by building under one – Belgrade Centre – Prokop, under two – TPC Zemun, under three – Belgrade goods transport centre – Draževno in Makiš, then deniveled by the road train loop in Batajnica, a denivated road train loop in Sremčica and a bypass track and car along the Beli Potok – Vinča – Pančevo bypass. That's what we'd do anyway. My answer to those who say it's worth nine billion and that we're investing it all together by budgets and by what we have as an offer today is not worth more than 470 million euros, and nine billion, it seems to me that some people have either not been in the state administration or they don't know how much money it is, or they haven't dealt with it, so they bring up such numbers that have nothing to do with reality and real life. We are, of course, treating Beli Potok – Vinca – Pančevo separately, and we will see that, in accordance with the end and completion of Corridor 10 and its eastern and southern arms through the Sistevačka and Grdelička clisure and the completion of Corridor 11 to Čačka and Požega at the same time, we are going to perform the work on the bypass, because our bypass is very important as a corridor, as an international corridor, because without the bypass, we will not have an international corridor and a large number of cars, especially trucks, especially pointing out trucks bypassing Serbia, Belgrade and going to Romania and Bulgaria just because we haven't finished it, but it doesn't have much to do with "Belgrade on water". It's our job to do what we started and what we're going to do. Some here said that some others would become the owner as if they were going to take the buildings or dig them out of the ground and take them with them to Abu Dhabi or Dubai. They won't even be the owners, they'll be the tenants. So it'll just be tenants and it'll be proportional to your investment. The bottom line is that we get money from them, and the funding obligation is set at 300m euros and 150m equities immediately and 150m quasi equities, i.e. funding that does not require a state guarantee. Since someone thinks it's a good little money, we haven't had it so far, no one has offered it to us so far, and a part of this kind of noise is being raised because this idea is finally being implemented in action, instead of some others who have been friends and traded with some other authorities, and as tycoons, they could become the owners of the most significant part of our Belgrade coast, and now the state seems to be spoiling their business since the state is going to win here, the people will get, and they won't be pouring into the tycoon pockets and into the pockets of the nice politicians. As for the dynamics of construction, it won't be easy and I want to speak plain and unequivocal language to our people and to our citizens. When they say – he said, so some make smart, and make jokes, says Sinisa Malia, ten years from now, Vukic says in four years, but don't be angry with them, they didn't listen very carefully. They're not against Belgrade and Serbia, they just wouldn't listen. I was talking about phase 1A, and Sinisha was talking about the largest part of the project of the whole "Belgrade on Water". The question is whether the whole project will be able to be completed in 15 years, but in three, four years Belgrade will have its better, much nicer face than it has today, and today it has a beautiful face for us and not only is it our capital, but it is in our hearts, and be assured that how much nicer it is and can be measured in money, in the number of tourists, in the number of people who will come to our city, in the number of those who will leave their money in our city, in the number of employees in this part of the territory and in Belgrade and Serbia, and do not forget, the number of employees of companies and companies from all over our country. When we worked this factory, the factory hall for the PKC in Smederev, one company worked from Smederev and one company from the King. I don't know what the companies are. They finished three days before the deadline. They're really done. It was the Finns who were in charge. You know how serious the Finns are, responsible, difficult when they check it out. Well, all of our companies, because today we don't have such a strong construction industry, because it's been destroyed by their obligations not being paid, by saying that anyone who gets a job has to pay the racket to their local regional and central politician, we've all managed to destroy it and destroy it. This is an opportunity to raise the construction industry, which will dramatically contribute to the strengthening of the Serbian economy, which will dramatically contribute to increasing our GDP and the country's exit and on these macroeconomic issues, therefore also on these issues from the full crisis. What is the start of building the first two residential buildings of the total area of about 50,000 square meters was planned for the summer of 2015. In parallel with the design of these two buildings, the projects of Belgrade Tower, a shopping centre and a hotel are expected to be completed in May 2015, to begin construction during the summer of the same year. So, what is very important and what I asked the mayor of Belgrade is that all of Serbia's brains, all we have are people, who are opposed to today, to include them all in the construction of projects, to include them all in the work, that all these people can give their solutions, to give their ideas, to have our construction operations run, like the Machine Project worked for these two first housing buildings, to make other companies and prominent architects work. Our urbanists to work as hard as possible. To hire our people to the greatest extent possible and to take the materials we take from our country, to take the steel we take from Smederev, not from another country. And it will be one of the conditions that we will make and the contract and that word of Serbia will be respected in any case in agreement with the Arab investor. What's important to us, this Arab investor is one of the richest people in the world, one of the people who built the most and built the most in the world. On Forbes's list, I think, last year's sixth wealth among all Arabs. The man who built the tallest building in the world, "Burge Caliph," you can all see it. The man who's being followed by the customers in every place. Since Sinisha Mayor of Belgrade did not want to reveal to you, we had a large number of foreigners interested in buying, when they saw that he was the one entering to build into our Belgrade, a large number of foreigners who wanted to buy both housing and business space, who would come with their money, who would invest him in our country, which we could provide more jobs for us and for our children, and I just don't understand what logic it would be to reject anything like that. I haven't seen any reason, like I haven't seen about any other things, but I guess that's why people are different. I'd like to point out a few more things. What is it that Belgrade gets by realising this project? Barcelona, a city that is largely similar to Belgrade, slightly smaller, its developmental path from an undeveloped and neglected city in Frank's Spain to one of the most modern cities in Europe and the world, was based primarily on major events, on major and important buildings, not to mention Gaudi, but also other buildings. They mainly did so thanks to the 1929 ECP and the 1992 Summer Olympics. They also had the Universal Quorum - Civilization, a project invented by the then mayor of Barcelona, when they had nothing more than a major event, which was also a driving driver for the development of the city in 2004. The idea of moving the railway infrastructure for the Sava amphitheater areas has entered the GUP of Belgrade in 1972, for those who say it is not in line with the GUP. After years of studies, a concept of Belgrade's railway node was adopted, which envisioned the way it would be done. One of the strategic priorities in the realisation of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia's Development Plan is Belgrade's knot. The solutions proposed by this law will address the issue of moving Belgrade's railway node from the Sava amphitheater, moving residents who have been living in old, wasteful and non-conditional buildings for decades, without basic traffic and municipal infrastructure, will allow for the construction of new infrastructure and new facilities in the city's central zone. The construction of the coastal fort with the prescribed conditions will be ensured in order to provide flood waves that threaten the central city zone. For those of you who say that the issues of municipal services have not been resolved, all questions of communal services, I am ready to answer you, we have all the numbers, all the numbers, and we can all go out to meet you, honourable MPs, to answer you. Why did I say this? Because what we've had so far, we can't be proud of it. I don't know if you know, we have so far, for people who speak – Sava is mine, so yes, Sava is ours, but from that area we couldn't even see her from 50 wrecks, and it's better that you didn't even enter into that part of the Sava because we have 116 sewers in total, and we never made sure to invest in anything, in any kind of device, in any water treatment plant and in that we make our Sava more incomparably clean, more beautiful and better than it is today. On the other hand, the issue of building a long-planned main bus stop on bloc 42 in New Belgrade has been raised. Last year, the city made an architectural competition and the award-winning solution was adopted and is under way to draw up a detailed regulation plan, whose adoption is expected by June. I don't have to tell you how important it is because no more buses are going to sneak into the central city area and lose more than 30 minutes to get to the station or 30 minutes or more to get out of the station. This will also make maps and access less cheap, and certainly there will be less pollution in the central Belgrade streets, and all people living in the central part of Belgrade will be able to welcome it. As for the travel network, apart from the speedy completion of Pupin's bridge, which shifted freight traffic from Sava and Karadjordjeva and the tour around Belgrade, this project also contributed to reviving the idea of a tunnel connecting the Sava and the Danube amphitheater, which, according to plans of the 1970s, should go from Kamenica, to the French street, if I am not mistaken, Mrkonjic? This tunnel was started in the 1970s, but then the construction technology didn't allow it to be built. Today wouldn't be a big problem for us. The existing Sava Tram Bridge will receive two more traffic lanes on both sides and thus Belgrade will get another bridge on the Sava. The development of detailed regulation plans for the completion of other urban infrastructure projects, such as the completion of water infrastructure, heat pipelines, gas pipelines, electricity cables, which except for "Belgrade on Water" will be available to the rest of the city. Some when they talk about the water supply, they forget about the Makish facility, which we built and finished and with which we have no problem with all the water territory of the City of Belgrade, so I only ask people not to sleep over always what happens and to follow what we have done in the meantime and have already built. What are the direct positive effects of realising the project? According to data from the spatial plan of a specific purpose area on the surface of a plan of about 177 hectares, it is expected to achieve a little more than a million square meters of living space, about 750 thousand square metres of business and commercial space, more than 62,000 square meters of public content, such as kindergartens, schools, cultural institutions, social and health care and about two hundred and four hundred thousand square meters of new green areas. So we're going to have two elementary schools, three kindergartens, seven kindergartens, one fire station, one post office building, five culture complexes of a total area of 40,000 square meters. We're going to have, as I said, 245,000 square meters of public green park surfaces, we're going to have 500 thousand square meters of new public traffic surfaces, we're going to have two measuring-regulatory gas stations, we're going to have two gas stations to drain, one heat station, and two large 110 kilowatt substations. Also, direct effects are linked to investment investments involving the entire construction industry and related activities, as well as to the launch of total economic activities on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. The benefits are multiple, from real estate taxes, taxis and contributions, through the incomes of legal and physical persons, to compensation for the use of public goods and other incomes. The indirect effects are increasing the quality of the environment and work environment, economically sustainable and cost-effective. The project "Belgrade on Water" has cultural and traditional elements, on one hand, and technologically-ecological modern solutions, on the other hand, essential for preserving existing and attracting new target groups. The planned construction of business, housing, trade and hotel facilities, cultural and public facilities will have a significant contribution to local and state-level development. The Sava amphitheater area, primarily its exceptional position relative to the coast and urban tissue, then the natural advantages of space, relief, the presence of water, sunbathing, the streaming of fresh air from the river, as well as the yet negligible degree of adequate exploitation, represents a great amount of space, and thus one of the significant potential resources of Serbia. It is an optimal location for the formation of a new city centre, but also a series of other complementary, implemented content that would contribute to the attractiveness and multiplicity of space. Locally extremely attractive, it's a great potential for urban development. With its central position and river as an axle, it represents the most significant location for the integration of two Sava coasts of existing and planned content. Given its position, between the old town centre, on the territory of the Old Town and the Sava Venac municipalities, and the new, which is formed on the territory of the municipality of Novi Belgrade, has every opportunity to become one of the major city centers and the new central point of the city. At the same time, our goal is to make Belgrade one of the most important "siti brake" destinations across Europe, and we believe that by building "Belgrade on water" in this business we will succeed. I would like, Your Honor, to say that this law is a condition for the beginning of that realization. Are we going to make it? We'll do our best, huge energy, work, effort, sacrifice. At any point in time, we've lost nothing, because there's no risk on us. We clean the space, leave it to someone in the future so they can do it and arrange it. So once again I ask the mayor of Belgrade to work with architects, domestic and foreign architects, and the famous Cop Hamelbla, who works with Mr. Alabama, it is probably the greatest architect of modern Europe and who will probably work on one of the most important parts of Beograd on water, so that we try to make a deal with all of them and arrange, if we already have a part of the money that is not ours, the investor we have found, to arrange this part in the best way, not only to make it nice, but to be useful, to hire people, to get people to live from their work, to raise our construction industry, to raise our economy. I came here alone to represent this project, because, to be honest, it was one of my ideas. Maybe I prescribed it from Branko Pesic, maybe I prescribed it from Dragan Gilas, maybe I prescribed it from anyone. I congratulate each and every one of them for having one or another promotional ideas. It's very important to me that we try to achieve high and great goals, to keep that scale up. I have no intention of defending this project. The size of this investment, the number of squares we're going to build, the number of people we're going to hire, the new appearance of the city, the coast of Serbia that we're going to leave to our descendants, all this is so convincingly talking about the project itself, that no defence is needed. For those who would be against, because we were always against, and we were against every major building in Belgrade, we were against the light bulb and against the electricity, we were against the tram, we were against the train, but one big Pasic could say that when the railway was introduced to Serbia that he was against the introduction of the railway, why, because the railway would bring down our rural lifestyle. However, the same Pasic, 20 years later, called the railway the fifth Serbian army, did not find it difficult to say he was wrong and said that the railway, along with four Serb armies, brought the Serbs victory in World War I. That's the difference between those people who have visions, who see the future and those people who serve everything for day-to-day political debates and for getting day-to-day political points. All I ask is that those who are against offering no one fear nor convince anyone that something bad will happen to him if he turns to what is called a word in the whole world - progress. There is nothing wrong with "Belgrade on Water". On the contrary, it's one of the most beautiful things we do. There's nothing wrong with Serbia, there's nothing wrong with those who are afraid of everything new. Remember, we rebelled when electrical lighting was introduced into this city. It was then thought that the honest world was sleeping at night and that darkness should not be disturbed by anything. We also rebelled when "Albania", "Belgrade", "Genex Tower". The dignitaries claimed that they would sink, say, "Albania" and drag the whole city behind them. There's nothing wrong with going ahead, building, creating new values, hiring people, bringing investors, and especially there's nothing wrong with having big dreams, wanting big projects and starting to make them happen. Again, large cities are built on great dreams, visions and projects the size of which scares at least one part of the people. This is a big day for Serbia. I hope that as we are talking today about 1966 and Lex specialise for Gazela, not with great pride we are talking about the 2009 Lex specialis for "Yugoros-gas", I hope that someone in 2050 will proudly and commendably talk about what we started today, and I hope that it will end with a beautiful picture of Belgrade and a picture of a busy, modern and successful Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24476	I thank the Prime Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The president of the LSDV parliamentary group, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24477	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, distinguished guests, members of the Government, Mr. Prime Minister, I am impressed that you have taken yourself to give answers to all of this for what your ministers should first and foremost answer for a simple reason. Last time the budget was adopted, I had a few questions your ministers answered, but I didn't get any answers. Maybe because your ministers didn't know them, and maybe because they weren't allowed to tell them without your permission, so I'm very proud to have the honor of asking you a few questions personally about this, obviously impressive project. Co-operation with people around the world is certainly an extraordinary thing. It should not be forgotten that Arab builders are one of the largest in the world, that Dubai itself increased its seashore by building artificial islands and peninsulas by 78km, so that Serbia itself would not have the most beautiful anthem in Europe if it had not been written by Slovenian Davorin Jenko. It is also a question that we would celebrate as an inspiration for every young scientist in this country, if it were not for the Austrian citizen of Nikola Tesla. All in all, it's all nice and wonderful, but I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister, in answering a few questions. The first question is -- how about we find out how many citizens and citizens of Serbia will cost "Belgrade on Water"? The reason I ask this is very simple. You'll only allow me a few moments to elaborate one important thing. This year's AP Vojvodina budget is 3.6% lower than last year's budget, and the fact is that the constitutional obligation of the guaranteed 7% of the Republic of Serbia's Vojvodina budget has never been paid in full. I asked your finance minister about it last time – can the AP Vojvodina be owed? I didn't get the answer. Why does Vojvodina get less money than Belgrade? The budget of the AP Vojvodina, although Vojvodina has 500,000 inhabitants more than Belgrade and 18 billion dinars, is planned for this year for 62.47 billion dinars, while the budget of Belgrade City is 80.2 billion. If more than half of the Vojvodina budget, or 33.8 billion dinars, is made up of transfer funds, means half of it, and in the city of Belgrade's budget is only 10%, we get the situation that Belgrade remains about 70 billion, while in the Vojvodina case, it is only about 28 billion dinars. At the same time, Article 16. The bill makes it very clear that the costs of Belgrade's construction land in a location covered by a plan document under Article 12 of this law will be regulated by a special contract between the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia, which is all great, but I have one question. As possible, given that the City of Belgrade should build the "Beograda on Water" and all works related to it pays for it itself, because it is a matter of local self-government of the City of Belgrade, not all of us, while Vojvodina is under water, because if you passed Vojvodina, you saw that every other field is submerged by underground waters, that we have problems with the canal network, and these are not problems that are related to luxury business space and luxurious residential facilities, but are linked to agricultural land without which the production of agricultural products in this country will very difficult to reach a sufficient level. So how is it possible that the City of Belgrade, which has so much money more than Vojvodina, per capita head 3.5 times more, can't finance these things, and the AP Vojvodina has to finance it, and it has to because we can't get a Lex specialis that would deal with Vojvodina underwater, and we need to get a lex specialis to deal with "Belgrade on Water"? On the other hand, my question about lex specialis, you have very educationally shown earlier lex specialis, but, if I may say so, they all refer to the good for public purpose, from the “Gazela” bridge and beyond. So there are things about public purpose. We have a situation here that it's something else entirely. We didn't get any answers about how to expropriate the land. What's going to happen here? Article 11 states – according to the finality, i.e. the legality of the expropriation solution, the conditions for the opening of the procedure for the contractual determination of the compensation for the exploited immovableity, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the expropriation. Item 5. – the assessment of the market value of building land and buildings is carried out by the authority responsible for determining the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. My question – what methodology will the authority responsible for determining the tax on the transfer of absolute rights assess, and how many are they even qualified for such a thing? Two types of standards apply worldwide: IVS and EVS, international evaluation standards and European evaluation standards. Does anyone use them in Serbia? Serbia has 25 certified assessors. The assessment, as far as we have managed to conclude by now, from everything we have been able to find out about the project "Belgrade on Water", will be done by multiplying the price by square meters, which is absolutely not just compensation, and this investment implies. Why am I talking about this so much? Because then the investor will get to the land, and the main price on the land is the location, nothing else. So the location at an unreal low price, and the owners, whether it's natural persons, legal persons, city, state, will be damaged. We therefore have a situation that the market value must be established in real terms and some minimum amount would have to be square for squares, which in the case of Beograda on water is several thousand euros, if I understand your exposure well. So I'm interested in how it's going to happen, since, say, in Novi Sad, it's 10% to 20% of the total sales price, and the other 80 to 90% are the cost of designing, monitoring construction, various taxis and ultimately getting investors? If the amount of money allocated for the location is reduced, the investor will earn more money, as the costs are quite fixed. What about utility infrastructure and land equipment? You, Mr. Prime Minister, mentioned the 116 spills of sewers. Did I understand you correctly? But that 116 pours out sewers only in the Sava. At the same time, there are another 136 in the Danube. At the same time, a third of Belgrade's city still uses septic pits that are empty in streams, rivers, abandoned wells, and even pour into fields. So, a third of Belgrade has that problem. Construction is projected, as I understand it, five wastewater treatment plants for the City of Belgrade. The necessary funds are 500m euros, how I got the information, and you'll correct me if I'm wrong. At the same time, the capital of Vojvodina, Novi Sad, the second-largest city in Serbia, also has no wastewater treatment system, but is being poured directly into the Danube. Now I ask the question – how will the waste issue be resolved? How will the issue, for example, be resolved, of sanitary dumps according to EU standards in conditions where Novi Sad has 1036 wild dumps, while Belgrade has failed to count them at the same time? So, for all this, I'm wondering if you can answer at least part of these questions, because of most of your ministers, whenever I tried to ask a question, I didn't get an answer? Can I hear it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24478	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24479	I thank you, Mr. Canak. I will try, with your cooperation, to answer every question you ask. First of all, I am very grateful for your review of the state or situation of municipal infrastructure in the territory of the City of Belgrade, in the territory of Vojvodina, and there is nothing disputed. Some numbers are probably even worse. Territorially, most of Belgrade's 30% share is covered by septic caves, not sewers. Of course, by the number of inhabitants it is a significantly smaller number of people, it is about 10%, but territorially significantly more than 33%. To tell you the truth, in the last 70 years, we haven't been able to fully settle it, like many other things we haven't been able to do. As for wastewater treatment, plants planned in the Great Village, therefore, on the territory of the Palilula municipality to be built, are at 155m euros, but this has nothing to do with the project "Belgrade on Water". It is just over three times less than 500m euros and it will, of course, be done through a public-private partnership, as I am sure we will also work through public-private partnership projects as regards waste treatment. Both previous authorities and today's government have held several talks, and I think that even the procedures for finding a partner have been launched, and that is what the project in Vinci itself is about, and I believe that we will be very successful on this issue. You were talking about determining public interest and you said "Gazala" was something everyone uses. Well, everybody's gonna use this, too, promenade, they're gonna use all the streets. One of those streets that will not go along the river itself will be Belgrade's or Serbia's "Sanze Lise", which is intended to be marked by the most beautiful trees. If that's what we're gonna do, it stays to be seen. But I brought it here, Mr. Canak, you know I'm getting ready for these sessions, this is one page for you. You think it's irrelevant if it's on one page. There's a whole one-page bill on this one. The law was passed, "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 104/2009. A year. There are only five members. In this regard, it is the Law establishing a public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build a master gas pipeline of MG-11. Since I know and what you think about it, Mr. Canak, rightly so I remind you that then, and I don't know if your parliamentary group voted for it, it seems to me that it was, probably by mistake, but they voted some others, they passed a law that gave rights to some who had nothing to do with the state of Serbia. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't know what citizens get out of it. No one gave that money to the citizens. Out of our country went 75%, and we didn't get any new value. Nothing. At the time, it was not a problem, and today something that represents an infrastructure facility, of great importance, something that is a condition for economic progress, not only for Belgrade but for all of Serbia, and I repeat this several times because you are never and will not hear that Belgrade is better than Novi Sad or that it is better than Nis, or that it is better than Kragujevac. And we plan a lot of projects for Novi Sad and Nis. They're already in Kragujevac. There will be, hopefully, more, as in many other places, as well as in the rising Smederev, I would say, dramaticly. So that's about legal norms and what we had. I want to tell you most openly that we are ready to open a dialogue in May and with your political party and with everyone else who is interested, once and for all, to resolve this issue of funding for Vojvodina. You had the same remarks a year ago and three years ago and five and seven and ten years ago, no matter who was in power and that we seem to part and say, this is okay, this is wrong. Belgrade has more self-income than Vojvodina does, more transfer funds go to Vojvodina, fivefold more than they go to Belgrade. But it doesn't matter. I understand that a part of the people feel, I think without rights, you think with justice, neglected because it's on the territory of a part of our country. I can give you countless examples and where ours and the SIEPA and the Ministry of Economy and all other ministries have provided significant financial resources, very significant financial resources, for the development of the economy, for the progress of the economy, above all in the territory of Vojvodina. Just look at all the factories and firms in the territory of Sremska Mitrovica, to the last one, Gerlinger, who was also helped by the Serbian government. Look at Magna in Odzac, for which we gave three and a half million euros from the Serbian government. Look from Drexler Mayer to many others that Goran Knezevic has brought further, which are also funded and assisted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So we have the exact same relationship and for me are exactly the same subotica, Novi Sad, Pirot, Nis, Leskovac, Vranje, Probation. I don't see any difference in these cities. So we are ready to talk to you and see what it is that we can do together, what it is that we can do together and we can all finally be satisfied, try to do about some other things that are not economical, some kind of political agreement, so that Serbia can look at the future together, and then we can fully focus on fiscal deficit issues, economic recovery, investor-making, etc. My final answer to your question about the location. Dear friend, I'd have a conflicting question. That very valuable location seems to have been the most valuable for illegal Roma mosses and for people who couldn't fit anywhere for asphalt and concrete bases, all these 70 years, or, if you will, all these hundreds of years. We've always been waiting for someone somewhere and we've never met them. Then when someone remembered to change it and move it, then the location was actually the most valuable, even though no one had ever used it for anything in those hundreds of years. I apologize for having to say this, not to you, but to the general public who insists on it. You're talking about expropriation. We have procedures in place, very precise. The tax administration is the one who conducts the entire procedure with a standard methodology. She'll set the price, she'll be marketable, and we don't have a lot of problems. I'm the one who showed you this phase 1A. We have 246 objects here, 179 we've already moved. The Republic of Serbia belongs to 95% of the facilities, 95% of the facilities are the property of the Republic of Serbia. But we never had the courage because it's the easiest. If I may say so, why didn't we do so in the past? I know you'll agree, not some others. You will. That's because it was easier for some people to sit in their offices and not do anything, read the paper, think about what's going to come out in tomorrow's paper, that at one and two lunches, where they're going to make some combination for themselves, and tomorrow they're going to continue the same. Someone dared to change that stale track. Someone dared to do something. Someone dared to do something after a hundred years, to really move something. After a hundred years, we were able to clear that space. How much he today, even though there's nothing in that space, how much more beautiful you are today, especially from Gazela, looks like that space, and even from Brank's bridge when you're heading towards the city, than he looked until yesterday. You'll see in just three months, four months, how much nicer it'll look. What are we afraid to say is that something is better for us? Are we Serbs only able to say that something is ugly for us and that something is difficult for us and that something is bad for us? Have we always turned into callousers and whineers? I'm not speaking to you at all, as you know. Is there anything good we can see? People were saying first, I'll remind you, Mr. Canak, I didn't want it in the opening statement, I collected it here, I brought a book of people who spoke – you're lying, Wolfie, there will never be Belgrade on the water. It's the subjectives, it's Andersen's fairy tales, it's the Grimm fairy tale brothers. It's fairy tales and fairy tales like that. And why are they so upset when it comes to fairy tales? But it looks like we're gonna be our fairy tales. Looks like we're gonna work and build. That's why it bothered them. One more thing. The Duke underwater. All of Serbia is underwater. Belgrade is under our water, and all of Serbia is underwater. Because we weren't able to. I'm satisfied with the fact that we managed to do it after the flood. Is that perfect? It's not. Would I wish Serbia had done a better job with water, Duke's water and Belgrade's water? I'd love to. You can't easily defend yourself from underground waters, but you can beat them with new innovative methods in construction, as the Netherlands beats them, as some other countries beat them, with greater work, with more hard work. We're ready to consider it, too, to see how and how much it costs to clean the canal. The main, large agricultural investors are brought to Vojvodina, from Klamens Tenis to the cave highlands, so Sandzak, the Raška area, however you like, to bring "Kremonini" and Arabs together in cooperation with cattle, to encourage domestic cattle, therefore, to encourage our peasant who will grow and who will have a pre-guaranteed price. These are the things we're working on. We will also work on land, but we can and must work together, and we are not running away from talking to you about everything and reaching common ground. I didn't accidentally say this. This is an easy topic for me, because people are going to see the result on this, and they're going to see how much nicer it is than this mockery we faced until yesterday. They'll also see the economic effects. For the first time in three years, we also have a growth in real estate sales in the territory of all Serbia, not only in Belgrade, and everything will slowly but certainly rise. Our numbers will be even better. In April, the first six days, as I can tell you, our VAT is again higher than in April of last year, VAT collection, gross domestic VAT, higher than it was. And our excise duty is already a billion in the upheaval, compared to April 2014. So, some things we've managed to get along, some things we've managed to move, and I'm going to remind you that I've only prayed for patience until about mid-2016, I've been praying for two years for people to feel changes. I don't ask for two years anymore, I'm asking for less time and I said, but before the end of the year and the beginning of next year, people will be able to feel it in their own pocket and in their own wallet. So I ask you, Mr. Canak yes, because I see that you have joined this as an opposition MP, but in one correct and rational way, we are prepared to discuss with you all the misunderstandings to discuss, we are ready to talk to you about everything and be ready to come out and give you answers to each of these questions. As far as money is concerned, how many of us, say, part of the municipal infrastructure will be paid out of contributions. As the works run, when you build a building after that, you go through the contributions. And that won't work, I'm sorry, and that's not where I answered your question, that we're giving it to a private investor, etc. No, money takes the "Belgrade on Water" company that we have in common, it's a matter of negotiations 31%, 32% or 33% of ownership, where land doesn't go into ownership, but is leased in the long term. From all of this, we will have an additional third of the profits for Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia from all of these effects that I have talked about and from every apartment sold, from every business space sold, because it will be a common part of the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade. Well, that's about the income distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24480	The word is Nenad Canak, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24481	I'm sorry, Mr. Prime Minister, obviously we didn't get along well enough, so I'll try to rephrase the question in these two minutes. If you have been so inspired to explain to us what should happen in connection with "Beograda na Voda", please just explain to me what this has to do with the home of the National Assembly and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in conditions where "lex specialis" should apply to the whole country? Secondly, when you talk about employment, you mentioned that there would be a large number of employees. I'm interested in what citizens of Vojvodina will have of it other than a beautiful view of Belgrade from the Vojvodina side? That's what I'm interested in. And I'd like to know how many jobs are going to show up here, because this is where the land is put into a long-term lease, and the duchess are to be sold. That's what my question is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24482	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24483	I thank you once again, Mr. Canak, and I would say that I think that the people of Vojvodina will have much to do with all the other citizens of Serbia because the overall economic situation will affect GDP, the growth of industrial production, and in particular the works of the construction industry that was in our biggest decline by this year, and this year we expect the growth of the construction industry for the first time in six or seven years, if I am not mistaken. I think it's something that will benefit all Serbian citizens, whether they live in Somboro, Kickindi, Piroth, Priboj, Užica or any place in our country. On the other hand, I'd like to ask all MPs for some attention first. Don't be angry with me, who I have to answer every question, it may be harder for a shade than for you sitting around and following the debate. I need a concentration, and in the noise, it doesn't really work out for me. So, as far as Vojvodina is concerned, I said how much we invested, exactly the same with the exact same attitude and attitude as all other parts of Serbia. We're not making any difference, and I don't think you could have seen it. I'd think, and I know that you're not, that you're malicious if you wanted to honor any of us, because I don't think you've ever made a statement in any of our ways, from any of our actions, you can't see it. I got the information, we need 500m-600m euros to solve the entire sewerage in Belgrade. So, to solve the overall sewer problem at the Belgrade city level, but this has nothing to do with "Belgrade on Water", so where we have only three outflows of 116 in Sava and 136 as much as we normally have in Danube. On the other hand, as far as the number of employees is concerned, it is our estimate that we will employ between 15 and 20,000 people and that it will certainly be the largest construction site in Serbia. I think it's an extraordinary swing. If only that were the result of this project, if I wasn't looking at anything else, I'd say it's very justified and it's hard to find anything that deserves better, bigger and clearer justification than that. I thank you once again for understanding, and I say, in early May, we are ready to discuss, apart from entering the talks on election laws and political reforms, the Law on the financing of AP Vojvodina and everything else, because I think that we should finally and forever address the particular issue of entering the election year at the province level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24484	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24485	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, JS will support this bill. Why? Because no one has any damage, and Serbian citizens benefit from this facility. Why? Come on, first I'll start with what's most important in Serbia in recent years, new jobs. We're going to stop our master builders, the physicists working on buildings, from going to some country where the temperature is minus 40, from working and being deceived by those so-called. employers and that they have no money to return to Serbia after spending 60, 90 days working on these buildings. I disagree with the prime minister when he says only 15,000 workers will be employed in construction. Much more, Mr. Prime Minister. Why? Private entrepreneurs also benefit in Vojvodina, both in central Serbia and in western Serbia, both in the north and in all parts of Serbia, business owners, construction material producers benefit. All these companies are now either a blocked account for over 50 days or watching as they shut down their businesses. These companies are born again in a way that will produce huge quantities of their products from windows, parquets, tiles, taps, everything called and is related to construction. A large number of kitchens, bedrooms, there's no harm. So, the damages don't have citizens who are displaced. We've heard the reaction of displaced citizens, that they're satisfied. There'll be plenty of green areas. There's no threat to citizens' physical safety. The safety of both river and air traffic is not compromised. So nothing is being threatened in Serbia in a way that will build such a project. Everyone has the right to criticise one way or another. Last night I listened to the representatives of the Association of Architects, be careful, that man has no idea how many, 70 and some years and they are very professional, but when I make something, I want it to have economic profitability, not just visual. It's visual here, this facility doesn't bother anyone, and it has economic profitability because there's going to be a huge number of workers working there. It is very important for us, and thank you for saying that the contract will say that the products that are built into this project will be produced in Serbia. It's never been before, Mr. Prime Minister. Now you have to applaud, because I'm telling your president, you SNS, don't look at me like that, and applaud when I'm talking, not just when he's talking. I'm not saying this as your coalition partner and because I support you, I'm saying this because I understand this project, because I brought over ten investors into Serbia and I know how hard it is to bring one of the investors. You're bringing a brand to Serbia. I was in Dubai, and I saw what the largest building, or tallest building in Europe called "Burj Kalifa", looks like, is 828 meters and 164 floors. You don't have to applaud all the time, only when it's necessary and when it's important. I was on the 154th floor in Dubai, and I saw what the city looked like and the view from that height. We too will have a tower that will be called “Belgrade on Water. ” I've gone by this building three times to take a picture of myself, and it's me who's been through the whole world. Anyone who comes to Serbia will go to that tower to take a picture and take the country where it came from. That the citizens of Serbia, finally we get something, not just to restore the buildings, as it has been done in recent years, turn around a little facade, spend some hard money and say, look how we do. There's nothing new here, there's kindergartens, schools for children, so we miss so many kindergartens and schools. In each city of Serbia, especially Belgrade, and Belgrade is the main destination to move citizens from the interior and to come to Belgrade. This will reduce their arrival in Belgrade from other cities, because you will increase the production of construction materials and hire, so there are not so many carpenters, builders, plumbers, electricians, as much as there are in Vojvodina and Serbia, and they will all come to work here. They'll all come work here. That money will carry home, that their families can raise normally like all other citizens in the developed countries of Europe. So I have nothing against critics, but they have no arguments for criticism. There's one idea, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, there's a lot of ideas. You know, every day someone comes to give me an idea, and wait till you try to realize that idea. It's time for you to realize an idea that may exist as a project for years, but it's not easy to provide such an investor who has a bonus, a large number of them who listen now don't know what bonity is, but it doesn't matter, they don't have to know. What does that mean? This means that whoever comes to work doesn't want an advance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the city of Belgrade stands out 200m euros and some million euros, right, Mali? We'll get that money back very soon, through info, plumbing, this one, that one. Minister of Police, don't disturb, even though you're the Prime Minister of Police, you should listen to what I'm saying, Mr. Stefanovic? I have to wait, he's the minister of police, because he's got a lot of things to do, so thank you, he listens well, he listens carefully. What else is important, Prime Minister? There'll be plenty of green areas, lots of parks. It is usually criticised so far that something is being built in a park, where children were playing, and now it is being built on the ugliest part of the city of Belgrade, where there were dumps, asphalt bases, gravel, etc. and failed rafts. You're making that part of Belgrade beautiful. There's no room for criticism, for something they say is the wrong investment. If I'd listened to what others tell me, I couldn't have done anything in my life today, especially in one city that I run, and I know what it means to bring in a very important investor. What is important for the state of Serbia? Tourism. How are we going to increase the number of tourists? By having something new on the Belgrade city tourist map to show. You can see that from year to year, both Croats and those from other countries are coming to Serbia in Belgrade from other countries to welcome the New Year in our city of Belgrade. Now that we are finished, it will be the best destination, not just for the New Year's Eve, it will be a holiday "Belgrade on Water", who comes to that destination. Please make as little excuses as possible. You've been making excuses for an hour and ten minutes. What's your excuse? Here is the economic interest of vital importance for Serbia. How are we going to raise pensions and salaries? By coming from income 30% of the sale of everything that will be made at a destination called "Belgrade on Water". How are we going to increase what's called - the financial register? That's it. We can't invent hot water, Prime Minister. What are we offering to the citizens? To watch that failed coast of Danube and Sava, where you can't go, because snakes will eat you in the last few years, shall we show them? How to ride them by boat and see the left and right coast, as you ride a boat in Paris, along the river Sen, so they show you the Eiffel Tower, where half of Paris striked and demonstrated not to build the Eiffel Tower. Thank God some individuals here couldn't seduce the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, so they could join them, block the work of something called better and better tomorrow for the citizens of Serbia. What else is important? The investors look at you differently, since when they come to Serbia, so you take them, and you say I did this, and the point is Prime Minister, not to report what was done before you, but you say, this is what I did, it's so many squares, so many people are doing today, it's going to work 13,000 people, Prime Minister and respected citizens of Serbia. One investor comes from Europe, he employs between 200 and 250 workers in the newly built factory. So we need over 50 investors to bring to Serbia, so we can say, here are 13,000 employees. Today it's very difficult to bring an investor from Italy, from Germany, from Austria, you need at least seven times to meet him, and in a very short time you convinced the biggest investor with a bonus, when it comes to building buildings to get him into a small state and to invest so much money. Since this same investor threw a stone into the sea and built the Palm Peninsula where everyone, so called, had to go see that peninsula in Dubai. Why? They wanted to make an oasis in a 10km radius and get everything close to you, see what's called tourism. This tourism is not historic in Dubai, in Emirates. That tourism has been done for the last ten years. People have done something in the sand that we cannot do and we have not been able to build in the location that Serbia owns so far. Serbian citizens, don't worry. If I were to say that I live in central Serbia, so I'd like you to know what, I'd take you as best man to make this Belgrade on Moravia, not to be "Belgrade on water," but it's much more important to do in our capital something where the whole world is coming, but in some small municipality in Serbia or Vojvodina, and not just to be jealous of something that is ours. This is ours, and no one's gonna take those objects out or take them down or take them to the country where it's from. Just so you know, you'll be the leader of that, because in the last five years nothing in Europe has been made of such capital objects. To inform you, Serbia has become a very interesting destination for European investors. Why? Because there is political stability, because you have now made better conditions, gives SIEPA now than before years and because it will have the right both domestic and foreign investors and thank you very much. You gave every city in every municipality a chance to compete and fight and bring in an investor. We can't wait for you to do this, but we have to go on our own and talk about what the Republic of Serbia is offering to lead you. Once again, let me tell you that we in Unity Serbia do not support this because we are part of the coalition that we are doing, and that this coalition, or that coalition, represents you. This is Serbia's interest. All that is Serbia's interest, there is no need to seek the consent of all relevant and irrelevant factors in Serbia, something needs to be done, because economic viability, there is something called a study that has been done in all projects and for everything called construction, from department houses, hotels, kindergartens, schools, etc. There will be children born here, no more people will have to think about whether his child will have a place to go to kindergarten or not. This will be the most exclusive place, and still Serbian citizens, based on previous stories, think it is not safe and that "Belgrade is on water" is just a story. Now it's not an election campaign, so you're gonna make a promise again, what you said last year. It's time and the realization of something promised. And while, Prime Minister, you realize what you promise, you will have our support. The first time you make a promise, and you don't, we won't support you. Thank you. A unique Serbia will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24486	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24487	I want to thank you, Mr. Markovic, first of all, for the words that you have or by means of a way and a people's language that you have presented more plastic and better than many of us could have done. I wasn't talking about all the details and everything. I tried not to justify myself to anyone. I said that for me today is a solemn moment, very important and that that is why I insisted and that I personally be present because I think, and that as I said in 2050, just as I mentioned today some of, with respect, people who were previously mayors or other functions will perform, so with respect to this time of ours when a new generation will face great challenges. You spoke in one way that everyone understood. I'll add something to that. As a faithful friend, my friend Sheikh Muhammad, I have long refused even to go to Dubai. He made me, they're the same families, but I've always been loyal to Abu Dhabi and I've been saying, "My friend's here, so I'm not going to Dubai." He made me go to Dubai because of the Albar investor. You saw between Burch Califa, shopping mall and those hotels, those few pools they bridged. They built bridges, they made this whole exterior. They spend $3.5 million on an annual level just to pump water into those pools and nobody tells them anything that spends $3.5 million of city money for it, because it attracts hundreds of thousands of tourists more into their shopping mall, which is probably the most visited shopping mall in the whole world and has made it a big business in the middle of the desert. I didn't want to say this would be the most beautiful part of town. If you look again, I just want to tell you once again where these green areas are going to be and I didn't accidentally say "Belgrade Chance" because they took a combination of the most beautiful things from several cities. Something from Vancouver, something from Barcelona, something from Paris, and they'll work together and work with our architects and our engineers. We'll have, 8.40 acres of public green area planned. In addition to Bristol Park, which is protected, we will have three new parks - "Green Square" near the railway station. This is what we will open up the area of Railway Station - Slavija, therefore, Railway Station - Nemanja – Slavija, because we are finally counting on Slavija to be able to implement and implement a specific project at least in 2016, because we have lied to people in Serbia for years. We have so far had four false competitions for Slavi Square and when they supported certain political options, some media in Serbia have told us -- here's what it's going to look like. The competition would always be over, and there would never be any money and we would never do anything. It still presents us, certainly not the most beautiful part of our city. We'll try and figure it out. We're going to open this whole new space of the Sava Wreath that's called the Unrare "West Vračar", so that the West-Walk part of the Savawere quite different, more modern to open up a new view at the temple of St. Sava, and I think that we're going to succeed, of course, the most important economy, and you're absolutely right here. You know how hard it is when people throw numbers at each other and someone smiles when I show the building of the Geozoda, or the Belgrade Cooperative. Please all MPs, please leave today during the break, leave tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, at any time in the Belgrade Institute building and tell me honestly what buildings are in Belgrade and Serbia better than that building? Look, we'll get you pictures to see what that building looked like. Someone thinks four million euros is small money, so it's because they were throwing themselves away with state money. No, it's not. It's huge money. Someone's gonna give us 20 million euros right now to start cleaning it up, 30 more and another 100 million euros. Someone else will, someone who knows how to do it, and we don't know. Someone who is God, to forgive, in a great way, of course, in the greatest media in the world. Come on, show me when CNN isn't the first news if Alabama plans to build the new largest city in Cairo to raise nine million people? It was the first news on CNN 24 hours ago and there's no game about it. With their knowledge and money and everything else they have, they have the respect of the whole world. They have no respect for us alone, and the only thing that worries me is that as some in the region who managed to piss them off, because these people don't like a negative campaign, these people don't like it when they don't respect them, I'm telling you now I'm going to open three things up in Novi Pazar, that's what I was hinting at, and together with Vice President Ljajic, I'm going to go to Pazar on April 20th to Pazar Day. I'll go there, we'll open the site with Arab money. They gave all seven million euros for school, for kindergarten. It's not mediocre, I didn't understand that kind of remark, school, kindergarten and anything else from public facilities, all three buildings worth seven million euros, we're going to take more money. We want to show that part how and how we treat each other. They'll make people who know. It will work for Serbian companies that have already worked for them. Otherwise, as right as you are, Mr Markovic, the most beautiful building in Belgrade, Geozovod or Belgrade cooperative for me, worked 12 Serbian companies. The days weren't too late, Mr. Markovic. Twelve Serbian companies worked, unlike Duke Stepa, where those who had politically received jobs are always late. Every day when I go past the Autocommand, it comes to me – when are you people going to do something on time? Apparently, someone else doesn't think of that. These people did it in the day, there was no delay. They've been doing domestic businesses, they've shown their ability. I've told you about the Smederov companies, the Kings, many others who will work here, you're right. There are no carpenters in Belgrade. We don't even have close enough builders. We don't have a carpenter in Serbia at all, we need a carpenter. In foreign employment companies, foreigners come as carpenters. We don't have enough plumbers. In the meantime, we've all become managers, just "a purse-snatcher," and this other thing is a little harder for us, and I apologize for saying this, and I know it's not popular. Economic cost-effectiveness, what's most important. Someone else is giving us money, and that money is coming back to us multiple times, and it's coming back to us multiple times. Imagine the view when a stranger passes the gazelle, you speak of the tower. On that tower will be made a panorama, as predicted. You'll be able to see all of Belgrade from that tower, with a direct view of two rivers. You can think what it's going to look like, you can think what kind of tourist content we're going to be able to offer. Look, we're doing it. Thanks to us for what was seven or eight years stuck like this wonderful building "Radsson Blu" hotel "Soravia" which it built, you heard what their owner said which you will not believe, in front of the Austrian Foreign Minister and Prime Minister and the Prime Minister said – thanks to Vukic and the new city administration, we managed to finish what we did in seven years, and I am sure that the predecessors did a lot of good things because we opened up – come on in, give the money, finish it. Let me tell you right now, I loved them if you have any private interest, buy that Bigz building, or together with, I think Mr Matic owns it, see something to change that. It's a building that was an architectural miracle in its time, but let's do something about it so that the view from "Gazale" to the right would be different and nothing more and it's very significant of course. We want to attract tourists four times as much. We boast this year that Belgrade has 12% more tourists in the first quarter, but 12% is not enough, we want much more to have and we want to bring much more to Serbia. Count Belgrade, then half of it mountainous, half of it banish, 380 and 370,000 people. This is about 760,000 people. Of course we have to strengthen other cities as tourist destinations in Serbia, but of course Belgrade is the first, basic destination in which people have to come and it will be easier to get to know all other parts of Serbia. I want to say one thing that is important to all people in central Serbia and Vojvodina. Under central Serbia, I mean, of course, both Kosovo and Metohija. So, we will already go out with part of new and reforms and a package of incentives about April 27th in a different way than we previously did for more even regional development. Part of the money, not of our own income, but of the Republic's revenues in the future, we'll take Belgrade, and we'll give for the development of Serbia's southern and eastern, south and west, and that's one of the things we're going to do, and I'm going to suggest that to everyone. I think it's one of the important things and I'm confident and I know, as Mr. Canak knows that I care as much about Subotica, as I do about Pirot and Belgrade, I know that you do. Besides, if I did, I don't know where I'd be or where I'd be. My mother is an native from Backa, my father is a Serb through Drina, I was born in Belgrade, however you turn, I don't know where, what and how I belong, except for this only Serbia we have. Let me get on with it. On the left bank, a large park of 16.2 hectares was planned, which is 9% of the total territory of the plan. At the level of the plan, 14% of public green areas on both shores were secured. No street will have you without a tree. Did you see, since they couldn't get people, so I'm going to show you now, because people aren't allowed to plant trees next to the Geosaves, they took those huge pots, because they can't imagine they don't fertilize their buildings and their space, they took huge pots and planted trees all over and around that building. So it's something they do in every place. Look, with not enough money, it won't start much work yet, they'll make a promotion about 200 meters away. You will see that this place for the gathering of all Belgrade citizens will be, that all people from Serbia will start coming here and that a large number of foreigners will start coming because they are masters of it. They know better than we do. I tried to make sure that when I went to watch, to take, to learn and to always do it from the best, but unfortunately, some people I'm afraid they didn't want to hear it, they didn't want to see it. I'm glad you've been able to explain it in such a plastic and simple way. On the other hand, just to get it over with, about the number of workers, we spoke 15 thousand workers directly engaged in construction work. There will be many more workers, many more employees, in every bar that opens, in every museum that opens, in every building that opens, in every apartment building, because it will probably be in the principle of condoms, where you will have to have both janitors and I don't know who everything, every square meter will open a new job and that's understood. Not to mention building materials, not to mention our construction companies that are on their knees, that are literally on their knees and that have to get every next job to get their commitments out of some previous job, because they don't have any money, as you know. So I'm grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to have that one other part, the more beautiful part, which perhaps because of those explanations, I didn't get a chance to talk in that first part, and I should have thought more, I think we'd be able to do it. I want to make you happy, because I know that you care, how happy I was, and I couldn't hide that happiness that we managed to get a job done for 5120 people in Smederev, in Željzara Smederevski, for another 1,500 in the PKK, that's 6700 in one city and now via "Cemolaja" I believe another 500. The joy of people cannot be understood, and here I am telling you now, Mr. Markovic, it has been planned within six months for Jelizara to be profitable, since I met with Mr. Kamaras in Slovakia, they have shown me everything they have done so far, they have shown me their plans for the future. We, Mr Markovic, will already have Jelizara in May, as the second largest factory in Serbia, which will operate profitablely after years and years of heavy losses. We lost ten million euros at the monthly level. Now we're going to be profitable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24488	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24489	I'd like to say a few words about our construction industry and where it is today, and I'll talk less about it, because it's on its knees, to where it should be and where it should be in the next few years. The share of the construction industry in Serbia's social gross product is almost 4%. Our goal and our agreement and agreement from the Prime Minister's exposé is that in the next five years, by 2020, it will certainly be 6% at least. I'll tell you that we are, by the share of the construction industry in the social gross product, unfortunately, we have to admit, at the beginning, somewhere in the end, relative to the whole region. Although existing infrastructure investments in Serbia today amount to almost four billion euros, when we talk about road, rail and other infrastructure, although we have a goal that tells us that we should and that we can get to 6% of the share in the social gross product, then, in the case of "Biograda na Voda" it looks like this, for those who are interested. Investments in coastal regulation are estimated at around 845m euros. In the following year, two of them should bring in 0.00 to 0.20% of the social gross product increase. So it's a coastal arrangement. If you take the total investment of partners that we're going to work with in the next five, six years, a billion a year, that means an additional 0.25% a year. So for the first two years, we have 0.20% of the arrangement, plus 0.20% to 0.25% a year, nearly 0.5% a year, total at the end of the construction up to two or 2.4% a year, when we talk about this project. To that we add, as I said from the beginning, current projects and current investments that we already have and that we are speeding up and that we want to speed up. This means that we, with "Belgrade on Water", will certainly raise the construction industry, because that is our goal and help our companies to be the ones that will be run by construction in Serbia, thereby raising the share of the social gross product and doing what we are always talking about and what we are working on all the time, and these are reforms that have to produce results. "Belgrade on Water" is not just one of the construction projects. "Belgrade on Water" is a construction project that is the basis of a new Serbian policy. While Serbian politics, I would say, chats over the past 40 years about Belgrade on water, about changing the looks, about whether we need a Lex specialis today, I think that the Serbian economy has no time to wait, because the projects that we are speeding up and "Belgrade on Water" that we want to realize actually need to help us start traffic, infrastructure, energy, construction, that is, the ultimate, most important goal, which is to live better in Serbia. So, this government is here today, and we're all here, no matter what anyone thinks the ministers don't respond, the ministers are here to give you all the details, but we're following the policy from the prime minister's exposé, which is that we'll do everything we can to make sure that at the end of this year and next year live better, and without construction projects like this, it won't be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24490	Thank you. The word has been authorised by Parliament's representative, MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, I think it is generally known that the SPO is a political brand on Serbia's political scene of major ideas. One of the big ideas that has a chance to realise is Belgrade's decade-long drive to get down on water and now bring an unsettled and abandoned space to its purposes. I have used similar parameters in preparation for this discussion because it is simply impossible for this type of investment not to look at the history of major investments in Serbia and resisting it, not to compare it with some big or similar investment in the world and not make similar conclusions. Let's say, if we compare the coast of the Sava amphitheater to the Danube coast in Budapest or Bratislava or the coast of the Sena in Paris or the coast of Neve in Petrograd, we'll see where we are. Let's look at the history of major investments in Serbia. In 1837, the idea of building a railway in Serbia was conceived, so that it would be realised in 1881. In the then National Assembly, it now looks comical, but then there were serious debates, there were MPs, doctors who claimed that for the health of the population it was not good for the population to drive at a speed of 35 or 40 kilometers per hour, because the pedestrians walked five kilometers per hour. There were those who thought that there was a black devil sitting in the locomotive, where the locomotive would burn fields, crops, and forests, and that it was a disaster. Mr Selakovic, in your Uzic, in 1901, King Aleksandar Obrenovic opened another hydropower plant in the world and after Niagara. What was the resistance of the population and the fear of the unknown? Many moved from Uzic because they thought the city would burn in flames. I, I think, would like to see "Belgrade on Water", as I have seen the objections of professional urbanists, designers, engineers, which I have greatly respected compared with the construction of Petrograd in Russia. The great Russian reformer, King Peter the Great, visited all European capitals before the construction of Petrograd. He liked Venice and Amsterdam the most. He wanted to make today the northernmost city on the globe of Sweden, a modern city at an altitude of 2-4 metres, through the town of Neva, which is only 74 kilometers long. The length of the coast, from coast to coast, is only 600 meters, and 28 kilometers of river flows through the city. During the construction of Petrograd, 35 thousand people died, or from various infectious diseases, and Peter the Great ordered every wealthy Russian to build a palace in Petrograd. Today, the result made by Peter the Great completely undermines everything we could today transfer from the point of view of human rights, property rights, land, etc. For two centuries, Petrograd was the capital of Russia. Today it is one big industrial, port, commercial, cultural, scientific centre, and the largest after Moscow in Russia. I really can't compete with the experts in the area, but when I read the remark that we in the coast, which is underwater, where dangerous groundwaters, etc., are involved in a project like this, it's very hard to throw out water, dig up, that there's a lot of trafo stations, that traffic needs to be arranged, etc. Of course, he needs it all. How's he gonna fix it? If Peter the Great could have done this three centuries ago in Russia, with current technology, with current scientific achievements, with current designers, engineers, builders, it's a children's game. What we've been missing all along, aside from decades of aspirations for Belgrade to come down to the river, is a lack of money. There were ideas, there were projects, there was everything, but there was just no money. Is the investor secure now? We want to fully trust the Prime Minister and the Government that the work we are talking about today will be fully brought to an end in the way that is best. Because of the huge potential the city of Belgrade has, due to 200km of coast to be used wisely and put into operation, because of the Sava amphitheatre that covers part of the coast from Brank's bridge to the Belgrade Fair, it is the most attractive part of Belgrade and the most attractive part of Serbia, but that attractive part, the attractive potential is now completely abandoned, unregulated, with the poor quality of the buildings built, without the basic traffic, municipal infrastructure, there are even technical infrastructures of unequal quality. The surfaces are either not used or lost their original purpose. There are traffic, environmental and all kinds of other problems in the area. There are a large number of illegally built objects and a request for restitution. At the request of restitution, our parliamentary group, and with the compensation of the owner, has submitted only one amendment. It concerns the fact that the Tax Administration does not determine the advantage of land and property to be exploited, but rather to do so as an expert in the proper profession, and with the previous opinion of the Tax Administration. I believe, Mr. Prime Minister, that this amendment will be accepted, because I think it is in the interest of justice and justice and all that our political party has stood for since the beginning. Forty years ago, the move of the railway station from the Sava amphitheater was launched. This job is not finished, because there were no planning documents, no money to move around, no clearing the terrain, no construction of roads and bridges, no coasts, no forts, no infrastructure networks, no field spillovers, no free areas, no parks, no public buildings, but above all there were no investors who would invest in building new public, business, cultural and residential facilities. We want, not because we are a correct and constructive SNS coalition partner, but because we believe in a European, rich, normal, different Serbia and Prime Minister, I think of the president of a single political party, who has publicly, several times, given recognition to the SP and the president of our party, Vuk Draskovic, because he saw from the prime minister's post what this political party has been through in the fight for modern, European Serbia, we have not given up, and above all I mean numerous attempts to kill the president of our party. When after all this, someone does not give up fighting for European Serbia, he deserves respect for all political parties and all political party leaders. Unfortunately, to the shame of others, that respect and that satisfaction were received only from the president, Mr. Vukic. What I was going to say at the end, Prime Minister, was that once you spoke to the MPs in this House, you said that when you visited the Bundestag that you noticed that the Chancellor and ministers were more resolved by MPs than by the opposition. It is something that we think, in a constructive approach to solving all problems, should be a model of the conduct of all MPs. Good to know, when SPO thinks differently from you and other actors on the political scene of Serbia, that it is in the best interest. You don't have to accept our opinion, but it is our obligation to do something good for Serbia in a multi-voted performance in any of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24492	The word has been made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24493	With gratitude for the good words, I would add a reminder of a city that represents, not a little, but a great world miracle, like Petrograd or St. Petersburg. Unfortunately, we didn't, and that's what I wanted to explain and apologize to the citizens of Serbia. They also have Neva, Mojka, Fatanka and other 188 canals and water are not afraid and the water was not afraid of King Peter from the beginning of the 18th century when he founded the city and when many lives were invested in creating one of the most beautiful cities in the world. We're going to consider your proposed amendment one more time, can it, since we have an organ that normally does so by the tax administration and we're going to review the participation of the expert or not in the break, and then you're going to get the final answer, but we're always ready for every kind of criticism, every kind of thing that's rational. What you have a problem with is when you face a hate you can't answer, except to be the same as those who act like it. I want it for the citizens of Serbia, as I have seen some news, they say -- two electrocutions on Serbia. Look what a hypocrite it is. And that's what they publish, and they supported those whose time the electricity was up by 1.735%, watch out, not 7%, not 15%, 150%, 1.735%. It wasn't a power surge at the time, it was a democratic rule. Now the electric shock will be double, and I want to tell the citizens of Serbia -- no. They've been fooled again. We're going to talk about having one significant, maybe double-lower addition, maybe more than that, less expensive than the one that's been announced, and the next roundup might be possible, but when we're able to raise salaries and pensions with our work, then it won't be much of a problem. So this is what I had to say for the sake of explaining to the citizens of Serbia because of the campaign that some people like to lead, because I guess it's hard to come up with the arguments that we've put out today about "Belgrade on Water". Secondly, I would ask more people who are interested, because it's my job as a host in the government to worry about it, and this, Mr. Palma, is a good opportunity if you might need it, not for local self-government, but for privates in Jagodina, you know that on April 9th you buy 40% of the lower price of these cars that we exposed. It's a big opportunity, it's registered by now three times as many interested people as it is in the first round. I ask all people to come and take a look at the cars outside the Serbian Palace building, the ninth purchase is at a public auction, and we will have another round for those cars that are not sold at a price below 60% of the one assessed by the tax administration. So I ask people who are interested in buying cars to come buy them, that's a huge savings to us. Em, we're not gonna spend money on fuel, and we're not gonna spend money on keeping those vehicles, and people are gonna be able to buy certain cars. That's my application for them, thank you again, and that's true when you look at the coast of the cities, the way you started to see that the coast in Belgrade is the most messy, we're guilty of it ourselves, and it's time to start correcting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24494	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24495	Dear President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Honored Ministers, Honored fellow Members of the People's Parliament and all citizens of Serbia who are now watching this direct transfer, on the proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures of expropriation, the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I have to say the following, the project of full land refurbishing and construction in the Sava River coastal belt on the part of the Belgrade city's core, so-called. The Sava amphitheatre, a public known as "Belgrade on Water", presents without any doubt the biggest architectural building challenge in the case of the Republic of Serbia. Somehow, I guess it's also the order that always happens with us, that an undertaking of such impressive proportions from the very beginning is causing completely conflicting opinions and attitudes, both in the professional and in the general public. As usual, it goes from extreme to extreme, from the enthusiasm of the proposed architectural solutions to showing not only the skepticism, but the open prognosis that such an imaginary project will endanger Belgrade's only existence, at least as we have known it in the last 100 years. I read in one book, and it doesn't matter what he wrote, I think he wrote mentality in the Serbs, so Mr. Writer said about – every little time a man appears in the Serbian people who starts to promise what is at least for a moment clearly that what he wants and promises to do is for the general interest. As more and more citizens begin to trust him more and more opponents, and eventually in the citizens' elections, they give that man confidence and he starts to do something that is more and more like those pre-election promises, the other part of Serbia seeing that this will happen with its strength and all its capacities as smart, intellectual and political trying to prevent the plan, the project in this case "Belgrade on Water" so that it and you around him will not get political points, so perhaps get the next elections. What about the citizens' interest? What about Serbia's interest? Mr. President, I went about 15 days ago, since I stayed in Belgrade for a while near the location where "Belgrade on water" should be built, as far as I'm concerned about putting away what is there, and I see that in most parts it is sheltered and that it is regularly cut grass and watering, so thank you to whoever did it. The critics of the project often emphasize the fact that what is built on this move will fully deviate from the historical, ambience of the city at the mouth of Sava in Danube, that the planned skyscrapers on the right bank of Sava to that extent will change the face of the city, that he will lose his recognizable face and that the historical continuity with the past times will be interrupted. I have to ask - what does this mean by historical continuity, when it comes to the appearance of this part of Belgrade? Are these ship's wrecks lying at the bottom of the Sava, some as many as 70 and 100 years, which are soon removed in the last few months? You said, I think 20 and something, and I found the information that he's already 50. Are these popular rafts on which the Serbian youth unfortunately spends a good part of its spare time, whether it is an unregulated space around the railway station track and bus station platform, or perhaps abandoned residential facilities, mostly or from the exhaust gasses of transit traffic of blackened facades that somehow survived the Austro-Hungarian and German bombings during World War I, that is, Germany and Allied bombings, as well as bitter street fights during World War II. If the image seen by the residents of New Belgrade on their side every morning at the crossing of Brank's bridge is the historic continuity of Belgrade, I am absolutely for discontinuity. In addition, Aleksandar Diklic, in the book "Belgrade-Eternal City", particularly emphasizes the fact that Belgrade's historic fate, which was created in such a beautiful and strategically important place, and that every kingdom and empire wanted to have it so that it was rebuilt and destroyed and restored again and so on and so on in a circle. Korbizia himself, one of the most famous architects of the modern era, once said that Belgrade, I apologize to the Belgraders, including you, is the ugliest city in the most beautiful place. The vast majority of Belgrade's historical continuity actually lies beneath our feet, hiding within itself the spirits of a burning past. At the very beginning of the book, which represents its kind of Belgrade time machine, the author launched a bold hypothesis that the mythic river that Jason and the argonauts were sailing away with the golden rune was actually the Danube, and that the place described in the myth of the argonauts was just below the walls of the Kalemegdan Fortress, at the mouth of Sava in Danube. When another ancient man recognized the beauty and natural advantages of this place thousands of years ago, a legitimate question arises – why did Belgrade, who we know today, simply flee its rivers? Why did Serbian officials, mecenaries and architects prefer to select Belgrade reefs and wreaths, starting with Konsančić's crown and the Terrace reef to repay their debt to the fatherland? If there may have been an excuse for completely abandoning the Sava coast while Belgrade had a border work status that was within reach of the cannons of the hostile empire, there is no reason for a century. And yet nothing and I honestly believe that we would wait another whole century to possibly change something, that our Arab friends didn't offer this project. I believe that in addition to the many reasons why the Sava coast is so derelict, there is one irrational but precise explanation and experience of last year, painful with floods, which is the fear of great water, deeply instilled in the very being of the forest peasants, the fear passed through generations and which subconsciously repels us from the shore of the river. A small crackdown in this place best depicting the relationship of the Serbian peasant towards the great river, the loss of the soldiers and officers of the Timoko Division first called for the earthquake in the Serbian trilogy of Stevon Jakovljevic, describing the disproportionately large deaths of the Serb armies in otherwise triumphant 1914, while trying to force the Sava River near Cevrentija about 6,500 Serbian soldiers and officers lost their lives partly due to the failure to command, and mostly due to panic and turmoil as they attempted to cross the Serbian warriors across the Ponton bridge on Sava. Indeed, of all European metropolis, Belgrade is the only one who has fled its shores by leaving them either industrial production or simply leaving them to the urban text. I remember my fascination even when she first met Budapest some 30 years ago, which was primarily due to the fact that her most magnificent buildings were literally located on the cave coast of Danube. Looking at the Hungarian parliament building, I was subconsciously making comparisons with Belgrade, and I wondered why there was no such building in Belgrade, literally nothing on the riverbank? Another comparison, which certainly does not serve our honor, when a man walks, of course, I was not there, but I read, besides the ancient buildings of the University of Oxford, is the unreal fact that, with negligible exceptions, it is possible to literally walk along an orderly path that follows the meaning of the Thames River, the entire distance from Oxford to downtown London, which is about 150 kilometers away. We only remember how much effort we needed, including the personal entanglement of late Prime Minister Djindjic to break through at least a bike path from the "May 25th" complex in Dorcol to Ada Giganija. By their nature, people are generally conservative and are not prone to change, they don't like to see me as the ambience they've been used to since they were little legs, the ambience in which they grew up and to which they are mostly bound by memories of a carefree age, radically changing in front of their eyes. I famous Gidemo Pasan had lunch daily at a restaurant located inside the Eiffel Tower in Paris, because it was the only place in his beloved city where he could be relaxed, without fear of seeing a frozen tower. No, only he, and Alexander Dima, but most of France's intellectual elite at the end of the 19th century, had little hearing about the revolutionary idea of Gustav Eiffel, believing that this monster iron structure would permanently energize the panorama of Paris at the time. I think this anecdote represents the perfect parallel with our present moment and the relationship of one part of the public to the planned architectural solutions within the project "Belgrade on Water". So it's about time we started using an adequate way of using what nature has given us an unsaving gift, and that's the unique position of our capital at the very place of integration of two great rivers. One of the most important positive effects of this project is the removal of the main railway station to Prokop. So the final realization of an idea that we're not able to implement for a full four decades. The dig, as I recall, was supposed to be finished, and I have enough years to remember, by letting the Belgrade-Bar railroad run. Is there anyone who can list all the strong and most promises of those who claimed that it would be over for their mandate and that the railway station with the accompanying infrastructure would finally be removed from the Sava amphitheater? In the same context, the move of the Belgrade station to Novi Belgrade should be seen, which will certainly solve a number of problems that are closely related to its position in the current location. If nothing else had been built and only these two important infrastructure projects had been solved in an adequate way, we could again say that we have done a great thing for Belgrade. Far from it all. The "Belgrade on Water" project, I dare say I was the best man, I would say -- Belgrade by the water, whose total estimated value exceeds three billion euros, should settle over 150 hectares of the country on this move. It is expected to be built over two million square metres of space, mostly residential, business, commercial, artistic and cultural purposes, which should allow new employment and permanent work for about 13,000 people. When all the pluses, which this project carries with it, are not at all asked the question of its justification, in particular why all immovable property owners, and according to relevant data from land books, 10% of the total area covered by this law, will be compensated at fair market price. The basic observation of a section of the expert public, which I do not belong to, but I can read, is that solutions in this law cannot be applied to the general Expansion Act, given the fact that here on exploited land are planned between other and commercial construction, not just the raising of objects that are of the widest social interest. I think that the permanent resolution of the issue of railway, bus station and the permanent resolution of security of the Sava coast from future flood waves, the resuscitation of our construction operation, which will mainly be engaged on this project, a large number of new jobs and expected inflows of foreign capital, are precisely this broad social interest which represents the legitimate legal basis for the adoption of one of these laws. In the end, Mr. President, I ask you not to give us reason to think for once, as some colleagues thought, that you hesitate to give up. I can't say I'm your friend or your acquaintance, but what I've met you know is that you're a persistent man, you're at your best age, you have to endure for Serbia first of all. Personally, as Cacanin, I would like to see some "project" called "Cačak on Water, Valjevo on Water, Užice on Water, Leskovac on Water: I would like to sit next to you next year or on the ground, even better, when you open some new infrastructure or industrial facilities, some other mayor will be there and we will be from New Serbia and this project warmly and gratefully that this came on the agenda, as will be this "Belgrade on Water". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24496	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24497	First of all, I want to thank you for your understanding and your support. You can see how much you've been preparing. Listen, Ronsham was challenged, and today he's one of the modern architectural wonders, and when you were talking about Lecorbize, he really said what you said. For us, Belgrade is of course the most beautiful, and when we look a little more objectively Lekoribizje is a little more professional than we are and a few things are certainly possible to correct. One of the things is certainly that space between Gazela and Brank's bridge. Then we have to do Kosančić's wreath and Calemegdan, to make sure that part is recorded, to clean up, that Calemegdan gets more content that would remind him of his troubled history, to attract even more people. As for the criticism of everyone and everything, I'll remind you, we recently opened the Pupun Bridge and we followed and we fought both our ministry and the whole government to finish it off – how much it will require to be paid, what situations are over, how they are not. We didn't make any big noise about it. One day with the Chinese Prime Minister, the prime minister of the world's most human country, we came and that was the end. I'll remind you, just 48 hours after that in the paper you could see the inscriptions – why we built a bridge with two times three strips when traffic is not even two-by-two, something similar to Gazel. We listened to the remarks – and where is the bike path. I'm about to listen - where's the badminton field or something. So, with us Serbs, but also with other Serbian citizens, that someone is not offended or angry, if you don't criticise something, if you don't say something bad about something as if you haven't said anything, and Mesa Selimovic has long since, I think, in her Fortress, talked about it, when you talk about people who are less successful, unequivocally you'll find out and find contempt, and when they talk about someone who's a little better at anything than him, a little more successful in any of it, you'll rarely see hatred, and therefore it's no wonder that many who, I don't want to say, I don't want to think that they don't want to do well to their country, but they always find Leibres's enough reason to criticize anything, why they would want to attack or find something so-called. easy solution – hey, don't touch wages and pensions, we'll recover the economy. How? It doesn't matter, we're going to fall apart like we've been professionally for another year, so what do we care, and then we're going to go bankrupt, so it doesn't matter, and then we're going to act like someone else in Europe to pretend like nothing happened to us. As you lead, when you get to hard work, then the results come. What do you think the president of Finland and the president of the Swedish government took me in? No other Prime Minister in Serbia has had the honour. I will also be accepted by the President of the Norwegian Government. I mean, all the Scandinavian leaders will see me in just a year. Why do you think the most developed Protestant countries behave like that? They act because they respect hard work and hard work, because they know that solutions are not within reach, but that you have to come to a solution with hard, hard work and hard work. When you see me in a mood and you see me in a mood, you know only one thing - that I will always fight and that's one of the reasons why I bother many people and why there are some people, I don't exist and I do for them the same thing for every other citizen who supports this policy, in some people there is this kind of hatred that can't be described. No one in Serbia has been killed during this government, I'm talking about political killings, our crime in all numbers is smaller than it was, we've launched the most difficult possible reforms. Is there a big thief or is he rich somewhere? It's not. There's one reason. That reason is that they cannot quickly and easily return to their lost positions and cannot easily and quickly return to the same wealth they once were in. It's also for respect. You have to face it, to respect these people, to address them, but also to tell the people what is what you see in the future. I want to remind you of my exposés here, that's who I'm holding. Of course, life is something that always changes things. The floods happened to us, it took away a lot, a lot. By June, we won't be able to recover our energy situation from being on the same level as last year. Only then will it begin to recover and produce, to fully recover coal production and electricity production. A lot of other things happen in life, but you'll notice, I promised the people then only tears, sweat, hard reforms, hard life, and I said - just for two years please wait for the final result. Now I'm telling you, before you know it, you'll see that Serbia is getting better. I say, once again, we here with this project have nothing to lose, nothing to lose. This is what we'd do, this is normal to do, and if we didn't have investors, to stop at any point, we didn't lose anything, we just won. We cleared the city from a mockery that you yourself witnessed, which every citizen of Serbia was a witness, just some of them pretending they didn't see it and they didn't understand it. You're right, there were 50 wrecks left, we're left with 10 wrecks of everything, and we're going to get those 10 wrecks out of there, we're going to open that view of the Sava, we're going to open our eyes to New Belgrade and open our eyes from New Belgrade to the city and make that look the best and the best. Secondly, I saw it in Japan, said Mr. Chikiriz earlier, what Peter the Great was looking at all over Europe, what others were looking at in European centres. They are so successful and economically powerful that they have now begun to collapse, because of earthquakes, so seismological problems can't build buildings more than 52 floors, but are now due to a lack of space low on that building of 12, 15 and 17 floors. Now, you'll see, all over those Shinjuk districts, Abuja, Omotesando, so you see several buildings all over the place that are collapsing from 15, 17 floors to build a 52-story skyscraper. It's life, it's something new weather, which makes you a better economy, which brings you more jobs, which brings you more money, after all. Someone has to think about what it's going to look like in the future. So this isn't just a project of editing that part, these hundred acres of first or second 77, it's a project of editing and these tours that we've been talking about for decades, it's a project of ending Prokop that we've been talking about for decades, since 1972, 1996, it's a project of editing, after 20 years, we're going to finish them, in January, and then we're left with us to find someone who's going to invest in that underground part, in a big shopping mall, so that this station can attract more people, so people want and love to stay, to spend more money on that train station than it is today. Go and see today that in the morning, when the cops go around, they come across syringes left behind and all the other clues left behind by those whose share we wouldn't be proud of. These are the things we're going to change together. So thank you for understanding this kind of effort, even though we have made an effort to respond in advance, and I didn't consider it a justice, but a commitment, to the fact that there were objections to the professional public. Some were partly justified, some justified, and most were completely unwarranted. When you hear a nine-billion-dollar number, you stop, you can look into this vault, look into the sky, smile and say, "Come on, people, stop, put your finger on your forehead, please don't tell us things like that." I want to tell you that I have now received information to ask people to hurry before the Property Directorate, because we already have 450 applications for bid Thursday, for these cars, and to prepare the directors of public enterprises, if they have not received information from the government's session, 500 more vehicles should be sent for sale to the Serbian Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24498	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24499	Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Gojkovic, honourable MPs, distinguished guests, members of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, the exposure of the Prime Minister was comprehensive, well-founded. The discussions of representatives, the heads of parliament groups, I would say, were very optimistic, full of positive energy, and I think a project like this deserves it. Of course, lex specialis, nothing strange, nothing new in this country or in this Parliament. We could've fixed some laws, we could've brought some new ones from this area, but let's put that aside. I estimate this was done to make us work, to be active, to move things both in this country and in this city. The concept of public interest is quite stretching, quite a broad term. Maybe Mr. Micunović isn't there, maybe he would explain it, what it's all about, and what it's all about, but let's interpret it in that positive sense and use it, to use it to move things, I get it. We talk too much, we know too much, but we almost don't do anything. It's my general definition of the situation and this kind of effort, and I respect and appreciate it. This is a brave step by the Prime Minister. It's all nice today, but he's carrying a lot of responsibility for all of this and he's aware of it, no doubt. This courage implores me because it promises to perform in a similar way and when other projects are launched. I can say, let's say, for the house I'm leading, I expect payment transactions to move to that house, that soon a single bank will be formed that will only deal with the population within the mail, that the loans won't be – you take 100 grand back 110, you take 100 grand back 102,000, that will give us full support in all those segments where we can move forward. Here we have something ahead of us, we have a project "Belgrade on Water". The question is, what's the alternative, do we have it? She can be one, of course, we don't have her. When we don't have it, then let's stop at an idea like this. There are also conflicting opinions, I listened to people from the professional public and they have the right to be critical and we have to respect them in all of this. They were people from a certain profession and were verified, demanding to be respected. They represent or articulate certain interests, individual or specific groups or certain parts of the population of this city and this country. Of course, how do you determine according to all of this, how do you say where the right measure is, where is something that is well-intentioned criticism, and where is something that is a struggle for certain legitimate interests that exist? Let us not deny that there are certain interests in both Belgrade and Serbia today. The Prime Minister has defined what the interests of this government are, what the interests of this country are. That doesn't mean that the interests of all the other groups are. Well, when I listen to these polemics, now I'm going to be extremely honest, there's a certain question being asked -- these people tend to resent that they're not on that team, they're not there. Well, then some of the more visceral ones are trying to do the daspira, so let's turn everything on. We agree, gentlemen, that this is a big bite, and this is a lot of money for a poor country like this. When it's a big bite, then the crumbs that fall around are very big, and now I'm going to focus on that part. Mr. Prime Minister, it's big money, big business, big responsibility. Are we ready, are we able to control this process to be transparent and implemented in accordance with all the legal solutions, not allow any group, any individual to articulate their predetermined interest? That's my first question. Second question: construction ops and a separate chance. The Minister was in charge, our people will work, they say they'll be 15,000, 15, 14, 13, it doesn't matter. I tell you openly as a businessman, there will be as many as a foreign investor finds it necessary, as much as they are able to do the job professionally and efficiently. The foreign investor is not called Milan Krkobibic who gives the job "Jumku" to sew uniforms. Jumko gets it, and then he says, "Man, give me some money, we can't go." I say, well, we'll give money, the government will guarantee, sew uniforms. It is a public interest, it is a people's interest that these people don't lose their jobs, but there are no trips in the economy. A foreign investor won't give a single cent to anyone unless there's an excuse for that. Is our operative capable? Let him use this time. I'd appreciate it if it started with the preparations. There's the finance minister, let's see what business banks can do to help out our poor and exhausted construction operation, to help them with craftsmanship and anything on favourable terms that they can go into the realisation of these tasks. When it came to South Stream, they were looking for welders. There's no weld. They went to the Retired Union to list the people who retired. We don't have qualified masters today. Let us not be angry and surprised if the foreign investor says – thank you, gentlemen, I had a good will, but you do not satisfy. This has to be told in advance, that they don't expect to get it. Now let me get back to the Ministry of Labour, to the labour inspection. Fifteen thousand people, great! I am the president of the PUPS, and I protect the interests of those who are the most vulnerable. No pensions without new jobs. Fifteen thousand people need to pay their contributions, but let's see if we can report them. Let's not let anyone try to make a combination, so they'll take it here, and they'll pay it in Bosnia, half the profits. We all know that very well. Let's make sure each of these workers is registered, that the payments are made for pension, for health, for social, for everyone. It's a serious task and requires me very, very serious preparation. Of course, I'm aware that it's supposed to be a blizzard and we need it. We also need these million squares of living space, and we need 750,000 business spaces. There'll be customers, no doubt. The man who invests the money is very good at assessing whether he should invest. We have to use it the best way. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues have been saying, a chance for tourism, in order to list, but I repeat, all the actions that arise from this, this is all indisputable, and I don't think in this room we have a dispute about accepting this, but all of this that's waiting for us after this, it scares me a little bit. Are we able to prepare for all that comes? I see that out of some 240, the amount, 176 has already been bought. The question arises and these prices. What's the price? What's the market price? What's the location when it comes to that? How much does it affect? Not to mention those infrastructure problems at all. Here's a little correction. As I recall, in the city, and I was four years old, I think there's about a third of it, and there's the mayor, there's no sewers. It's pretty much that way in town. That's where the wastewater processing factories are mentioned. I've had conversations on the subject of whether the number of the 500 million is now the poorest or not, but all of these are, in other words, stories in the other plan. What I would end up defining and why we're going to support all this, but before that, I'm going to point out a disagreement with the Prime Minister. It's about taste, and it's not worth discussing. You said the look of the Geodetic Institute or the Association of Belgrade was the most impressive. I think the original mail façade in Sava is worthy of an Audi and we'll do it. That's why we'll accept. We'll take it because there's 7000 square meters and today no one would give me 500 euros per square meter. Hopefully, when this is over, if it's five, six or seven thousand, and there's no reason not to be, it's a figure of 30 to 40 million euros. Finally, the PUPS Group and I will accept this for a reason, I repeat, the launch of economic activity, for the simple reason that we want to give full support to every serious idea that moves us, moves us a little bit. For you, Mr. President, I wish you success in this concept and much happiness. After all, you will face the citizens of Serbia. It'll be your triumph or not, it'll show time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24500	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24501	Dear Mr. Krkobic, with gratitude for a good letter, I would like to answer a few questions and a few thesis that we can go through together. Is our construction operation in any condition, is she capable of participating in this? On the one hand, Zorana jumps and says, "Yes, the consortium will make it so they will do it, and on the other hand Vujovic says, "Mito is missing." Anyway, we're having problems, of course, with a bonity, with the insolvency of our construction companies, because there are few guarantees that can be provided. But what is commendable and what is good, I want to tell you that Arab investors have already looked at 15 or 16 domestic companies that have the possibility and are in a position to work and build within the project "Belgrade on Water". So they've already checked out what companies they are, and it's about our biggest companies. Now I'm going to tell you how professionals do it, one important example, and I'm going to go back to when you stop something without you knowing it yourself. When Azerbaijan came in, I think that then President Tadic spoke to them, and if I didn't go into the price as it was determined, some would say it was too big, some that it was dark, it didn't matter, but we had an interstate agreement with Azerbaijan and we got into it. I met these people when I became Deputy Prime Minister. What I liked very much about them is that they did not want to accept Serbian conditions to be imposed on them by a company that must work from Serbia because one of the Serbian politicians could have a combination with them. They chose for themselves. They've chosen one company that's less satisfied, two companies that are extremely satisfied. These works are our best advances, and they go to both corridors, Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, right on the road Ljig – Preljina, on the most difficult section of the road where we have 42 plus 56 bridges and objects. Because people work professionally and because they took the best domestic subcontractors. By the way, when I'm talking about resisting everything and stopping everything, when you have to be against the apriora because, well, you have to be against it, because it's modern, because it's in, because, as my kids say, it's fancy, so they say -- hey, Vucic wants to knock down that oak. Remember that oak, Mr. Krkobabi? Does anyone in the O.R. know how to tell me what's wrong with that oak? With all these people up there? Nobody knows. Or with a pear at Pirot's? So neither did anyone really care about it, nor was he ever interested in it, nor is he interested in it today. All it took was to find a reason to say you were guilty of something. And when you have no reason to, find a way to say you're guilty of something. To inform you, he's still alive, although he's in a difficult state, that oak, but I don't know how long he'll be able to survive biologically, and he's caused us huge problems, huge problems. But, unfortunately, it speaks of us, about our habits that, as you could see, have not changed since 1880, when the first light bulb was lit here at the Hamburg pub in Belgrade. You said there was a question of certain interests that are not always public, which are not always about the state or society in general. I think we just managed to beat some of the interests that aren't illegal, which aren't even illegal, but they weren't fair enough. Because some have a position almost without any money, just for the sake of connection or for the connection to the political establishment that they can make huge profits. No wonder it bothers them today. Let me ask you, who's printing certain magazines? They're printed by one political party plus one tycoon. You can't print a newspaper without knowing who's printing them and sharing them with the citizens and saying that it's some kind of Sui Genis movement, it's come from itself, because people are really dissatisfied and like we're all about to grow on a branch and we don't know what's going on in Belgrade. Belgrade, with something stronger than two million inhabitants, is a small town. You find out everything in a day or two. There's hardly anything to hide. You're right that a part of the people resent it because it's not there, but we'll try not to make these people look bad in the future, we'll try to turn them on. How much tomorrow, Sinisha Mali, mayor, will call again all the representatives of the Architectural Academy, will invite all those who think differently, to continue to work, to continue to talk and to see what it is they can do together. It will call all companies and all companies very quickly because we think that in the next month we can complete the contract, perhaps a little longer, but we think we can talk to the Serbian companies that should participate in it. We won't be able to do it ourselves, we don't have that technique, we don't have technology. We will also need them on the side, we will also need them from EU countries, we will need their knowledge. Besides, if you're looking at how they built these big buildings from Bourge Califa and on "Discovery" and all the other shows of these Indian workers and Canadian experts, it's a big fight when you get there on the 50th, 60th floor and with static, with winds and everything else, with building materials that have to be the best. I don't know how much experience we've had so far, but wherever possible, our companies, our people, our mind, our companies, this business will work. As far as labour inspections are concerned, labour inspection has changed a lot in the previous period. Today we have a PIO fund, as you know, a higher contribution payment than we had before, although unfortunately, we were forced to lower the pensions at a total of 5.12%. So the labour inspection works better than before. Does it work well enough? I think that part of the people we think represent extra employees, that these people don't have to be extra employees, especially if these measures continue to show us the results they show and that we can use the good part in the tax administration and in various inspection and surveillance services, that this very, very important job for our country can be done in such a way. Next, you said about taste. I was, of course, amazed by the looks of the old mail. I don't think the Belgraders know, the largest number of Belgrade citizens and the largest number of people in Serbia have seen it, it's a truly magnificent building. I don't know why we covered it. I don't know why we liked this, I'd say, box of matches design. After it was bombed, we could've kept doing the same thing, changing it in the same style, not making something so impressive seem to be like some kind of box that's hard to get someone's sympathy out today. But we will try to bring back that old glow and it will be one of those buildings that is fully, 100% owned by the Republic of Serbia. As far as the railway station building is concerned, our plan is to discuss it with Minister Verbić, for three museums, therefore, or the Museum of Science to be or to be the Museum of Nikola Tesla and the Pupin Museum in that place. So there will be one big green square beautiful and finally that Belgrade has many years, you know that in a year and a half we will finish the National Museum and that by the end of this year we will finish the Museum of Contemporary Art and that we can finally offer it to all tourists, but also to all Belgraders and all Serbian citizens. It's the treasure of this people and I think it's a great result that after many, many, many, many years, I would say, waiting, not working, riding, we'll finally be able to show and deliver to the people. Finally, Mr. Krkobiæ, I am grateful to you for being, and not because you have great functions in power or a decisive word, being correct enough to admit at a very difficult time for the country, when many have been pulling their butts out of responsibility and looking at how to get away from and say – and ha, that's what Vukic is guilty of, thinking that tomorrow I'm going to fail, because in Serbia it never happened, I've never, ever, ever gone too far, but it was rare for someone to carry out serious reforms and that he's willing to put heavy measures into action because it reflected on his political rating, in his political position, because you understood that it was the only way out of the crisis and because you knew that if we were successful, those pensioners would have both secure and larger pensions. I'm telling you that before the end of this government's term, any pensioner will be able to have more pensions than he had at the beginning of this government's term, economically based, not because we're going to these or elections. What Mr Vujovic adds, these pensions and the entire system will be absolutely sustainable, with the wrong, with the path of public debt going down rather than up. This level of public debt will never exceed 79% of GDP. We'll put him down after that. Neither the guilty nor the debtor, we got caught up in it, but maybe it's just as well because Mateo Renci said to me: “You know, when you're in a much orderly country and they leave you everything good and nice, like Scandinavian countries, Switzerland, then you don’t have much to change or change, you just watch that you don’t spoil something, and this is a challenge, when you have a chance to do a lot of new things and do a lot of things to fix. ” As for great responsibility and courage, do you think, Mr. Krkobiæ, that it was not easier to say – here, we will leave JAT to fail, as it has failed all these years. He won't show. In Serbia they never touch you when you don't do anything. The favorite are those who do nothing. And the people love them the most. They and politicians love them the most because they are the least of their distractions or the greatest support. No one likes the ones who work and no one likes the ones who change. I came to terms with it on April 27th last year, when I came out here and suggested the most difficult possible measures, for which many of them said you'd never have the courage, so we succeeded after the flood. We weren't looking for a reason to postpone, but we were passing a modern labour law, which supported the whole world. The law on privatisation, the law on bankruptcy, the Law on Pensions and many others. To end up with the heavy, most difficult fiscal consolidation, which is why, as you and I both know, we haven't slept in the nights. We didn't sleep at night, but we knew we had to do it and it was good to do it for the sustainability of our system, for our budget, for our country. I'm grateful that you didn't get off the boat when you thought it was sinking, and we had to let some water into the ship so that that ship could sail a lot faster, because it didn't have a chance, it would sink after a mile or two. That's what I'm grateful for. As far as responsibility and courage are concerned, we've taken over. We've taken it over, we've finished with Jellyzar, we've finished "Er Serbia", now I'm telling you -- I've got some new good news, the next days we're going to expose them, I hope for "Azotara" and for the ISK, I believe in Petrochemy as well. We now have more interested investors than ever for Petrochemy. If we can finish this, then Serbia is with this project, along with other infrastructure projects that we have a hard time stopping, which you see by the numbers, which you see by the results that are objective, which the whole world is talking about, and the people will be able to feel in their pockets and in their wallets by the end of the year. I thank you once again for your support both for your attention and for your courage to stay in this ship that seemed to have started sinking before time, even though it had chosen the right course and I would say the only possible course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24502	Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24503	I'm just gonna add a few things around the construction operation. Perhaps two or three years ago I would have agreed with Minister Vujovic, that our construction operation might not be able to carry out these tasks. After a year of working at the head of the Ministry of Transport and Corridor 10, which my associates and I have visited, I would say from the beginning to the end, where unfortunately domestic companies are subcontractors or subcontractors, and this has been happening to us for the past ten years, we have a situation that our not only impression is, but everything we see from the work of our companies, that they are not ready, but simple work can be done and how my associates say they would eat the "Coritor 10" much earlier, but these other companies. What happens on the ground looks like this – many companies that get jobs don't have that kind of emotion to work for their country and work on a project that's important for their country. It is very often much easier to ask for a compensation request, to give us a “clim” to ask for extra money, than to work really for your country. Now, these domestic companies are strong and strong enough and strong enough to join together to be able to bring out these kinds of projects, because when they can do the most complex projects both on the railway and on the roads as subcontractors, believe me, they can also work as main contractors. You only mentioned the Labour Inspectorate, and I'd like to add, which is that we, together with the Ministry of Labour, have applied and adopted in this House an International Labour Organization Convention 94, and that's where we did so. Black and white sheets. It is precisely in the desire to sort out companies that pay their workers, who pay contributions, who respect contracts and who work within the deadline. These companies that are on such lists, these companies will certainly have opportunities to work. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24504	The word is Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24505	When it comes to the Labour Inspectorate, last month the Labour Inspectorate carried out 3,295 reviews, of which 864 undeclared workers were found, 395 workers were registered immediately on the basis of a solution, but with an insight into the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance in two areas that we specifically treated last month, which are casinos and bakeries, employed, or registered 1,400 people in gambling shops and 800 people in bakeries. It's a fight against the gray economy anyway. We're an organized country. We're doing things in advance. They may sometimes not understand why we're doing something but we've been doing things in advance, expecting "Belgrade on Water", expecting big projects, we've passed the Foreign Employment Act in this country, a law that's been waiting 30 years to be passed because we've been expecting projects like this and because that's how we're going to regulate people who come here to work. I also hope that very soon before this Parliament we will have the opportunity to defend the Employment Agency Act which is exactly the source of what you have been talking about, applying elsewhere and hiring, and not paying for the corresponding contributions. What must be good news, and I'm sure you'll be particularly interested in it is that the level of contribution to the PIO fund has increased significantly. In these three months this year, 8% compared to three months last year, and count that public sector wages have been reduced, and thus the total amount of contributions allocated. It also dropped the percentage of mandatory state donations from 45% to 40% in our PIO fund. That's good news.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24506	The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24507	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ministers, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are talking about the project "Belgrade on Water", in essence we are talking about one part of the project, which is being looked at in the fact that public interest and special expropriation procedures are being identified. Right away, at the very beginning, let me point out that the SDPS will support this project. It does so with pleasure for the following reasons, because it sees a developmental opportunity, because it sees the possibility of hiring 13,000 new people, because it sees a chance to arrange a devastated space and finally because we see a chance in the development of tourism. What I must especially point out is that in the previous year, this country has first crossed a billion and 200 million earnings from tourism. It's our chance, and we need to see that chance. We may see a chance in development only in agriculture, we see it in IT technologies, in energy, in the infrastructure that we develop, but we also have a chance to see it in tourism. "Belgrade on Water" is one big chance to develop tourism, which is why this law deserves full support. He is a lex specialis and he should be a lex specialis, he shouldn't be afraid of it. In his opening statement, the Prime Minister said that this house had been adopted by many lex specialists. Those Lex specialists have some good history, some don't even have a good history. I'm talking about those who have a good history. That's what Branko Pesic was doing and everyone will say as long as there is this Belgrade that Branko Pesic did a lot for this town, he made a metropolis out of a small town that was then Belgrade. That is why we deserve to adopt this law and vote for it. The "Belgrade on Water" project did not begin today, it began last 2014 when the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a spatial plan. He was adopted to arrange the banks of the city of Sava and to make the Sava amphitheater. What do we got here? That was a lot of talk. We've got abandoned buildings, we've got a busy transit traffic, we've got a central train and bus station. The space is inadequately used and there are significant unhygienic settlements. According to one piece of information I found, the housing fund is highly unskilled. Of the 135 registered apartments, I'm talking about the 2011 census, that's what entered the list, 43% was built before 1946. The question arises, so what were the apartments, and there were speeches and those people who had already received the intended apartments, how they feel now and how they react to what was going on. Secondly, land ownership is mostly the Republic of Serbia, 95%, and 5% is only private property and a number of parcels are in demand for restitution. We have a part of the city that is untapped and that represents only a mockery. What do we get? We get a complex of public, residential and business facilities with various additional facilities of trade, tourist, catering character. A maximum-ordered location by the river, then we get a landslide, we no longer have floods, I will no longer watch sacks when I cross Gazela, where every flood, that I fear, and even this spring, whether I see sacks or never see sacks. So we're sorting out a space that is very important and very important to us. What else do we get? The Prime Minister has promised, and I hold him by the word of St. Sava, we get the Prokop railway station. It began to be built a few dozen years ago, everyone promised to finish it, and I believe and I am sure that we will be together for St. Sava at the opening of the railway station Prokop. We'll get more, there's like speech, significant buildings, cultural heritage, we'll sort it out, and it's good that we fix it. I love this building that my colleague Krkobibic spoke of, it is indeed an extremely valuable and significant building that some of them have reconstructed, I hope to see, that I will be at the opening, that we will open a beautiful facility in the Sava amphitheatre. What I'm trying to say further is I'm looking at this project through four levels or aspects. The first aspect is political. The moment is good and this possibility of investing in Serbia will certainly change a lot. The reforms that have been launched and which greatly change Serbian society are comprehensive. Many of us are expected, and we must be prepared to bring them to life. That's what we do. Through the investments we have, we will increase the percentage of employment, strengthen our economic branches and what I just said, Serbia will become a significant tourist destination. As an EU candidate country and as a country that will tomorrow be an EU member, be assured that in Europe there will be a significant increase in interest in visiting Serbia. Serbia is now and a destination in Europe, and be assured that when this is over, it will be a very large and significant tourist destination and no matter how irrelevant it may seem to us. Yes, tourism is our chance and let's not forget it. We have a lot to offer. One more thing, we did not enter into reforms because the EU is forcing us to do so or one of us wants to reform something. We are entering reforms because of ourselves because we have to change and have to change what we have done so far. We need to be better and better. And another thing, the political consensus and support of the citizens of this pro-European government, bear great responsibility for the future development of events and future development of Serbia. We can't miss the chance. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always support all laws and all projects that will strengthen our society and bring prosperity to it. The second aspect I want to talk about is expertise. This project was open to criticism in the public and commentary of the profession. TV shows, including last night's television show I watched, say that even this procedure that is no longer urgent, but a procedure that is in regular procedure, gives the possibility of the profession and science telling themselves. I think that's what the possibilities were for, and there's still opportunities. But you know how we are, a lot of individuals, a lot of experts, it's hard to reconcile all attitudes, so it's very important that we sit down, listen, and think about what's possible to change in walking. This project is long-term and thus provides the opportunity to create some flexibility in work. In fact, we have to choose the best solutions in the project itself, and no one can expect this to be over in one, two, three years, but make sure we get something that is very important and important to us. I'm not going to tell you what's waiting for us there, from infrastructure, from municipal equipment, from the very trafostations that are in catastrophic condition, everything that we're going to change and what's going to change the face of our Belgrade. The third aspect is financial issues. This is the kind of project investment, something new, something where we give space, someone else invests, and we change. Of course, one who invests expects a profit. It's about people who know this job, who are world-famous in this area. Therefore, we must accept that it is precisely this project investment and we expect significant financial resources, but not only in these buildings and buildings, not only the salaries of those who will work, but significant financial resources in the budget of the City of Belgrade and significant financial resources and the pension fund so that it can be easier for us to pay our pensions tomorrow. Also, and this is important to emphasise, after the expropriation, the country remains owned by Serbia, the state of Serbia. So, it's not going anywhere, we're going to create space so we can give everyone else a chance to develop there tomorrow, is it just our guy when he says, that if I own the country, I can do what I think is best. If I alienate the land, then I'm no longer the owner and I can only observe what others will do. The fourth aspect is a legal aspect. That's actually what's in front of the MPs today and what we're discussing today. As I have already stated, the government has adopted a spatial plan, areas of special purpose, a coastal arrangement. The next step towards meeting all the preconditions for starting field work is to clear up the situation on the ground and the issue of ownership and arrangement of the future construction site. The deadlines set by the government are approaching and due to the comprehensive impression that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should leave on investors, joint efforts are necessary to ensure that everyone in their jurisdiction does this job quickly. The legal solution, as we know, lies in this "lex specialis". He's giving us timelines. Under one, for the submission of an expropriation proposal, under two deadlines for decision-making in proceedings before the authorities of the administration, under three deadlines for the conduct of the competent finance ministry in the second-degree procedure. The deadlines are cut and that's good, because we have to work fast. This time we determine the public interest, and that's what we can do. The public also hears criticism of the legal profession, which concerns constitutionally guaranteed property rights. The constitution says that the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law is guaranteed, but the constitution also says that the right to property can be limited when public interest exists, which is defined by this law. The guaranteed property right will be respected through fair compensation under the same conditions as on the real estate market. The value paid shall not be less than the market value, so that no one in this procedure will come out of harm's way. The owner of the entire land is becoming the Republic of Serbia, and it rents it to the investor. That's what I'd say, that's one good side, because the land remains in our possession. I have looked into the practice in the EU and Member States when it comes to compliance with European legislation, and the EU has left the regulation of this matter to the Member States. However, the legal framework is being set at European level and national legislation and legislative solutions must meet several criteria. First, that the expropriation is done by law, not arbitrary. Under two, there is a public interest, i.e. a benefit for society, such as economic development and below three, that adequate compensation is given in which no one will be damaged. "Lex Specialis" is exactly what he's talking about. Therefore, all the regulations and recommendations of the EU are met. Finally, to conclude, as someone who comes from Novi Sad and who represents the electoral will of the citizens of Novi Sad, perhaps I am not even the most invited to talk about an investment that is not realized in the city from which I come. But I'm looking at this whole project wider, I'm looking at it as a state-level project, it's not a local project, it's a state project and it's a regional project. That this project is in Belgrade and is being built in Belgrade, that the most useful will be Belgrade, the Belgrade and Belgrade budget, but will affect all of Serbia. First, we send a great signal to all investors that it can be invested in Serbia, that it is worth investing and that it is worth investing in. Secondly, that we have the rule of law in Serbia, that we have made a reform of the construction sector and that Serbia is moving forward. Also, when others see Belgrade as an interesting, attractive and dynamic tourist destination, they will surely visit Belgrade, but not only Belgrade, but also my Novi Sad and Golubac and Zlatibor and Kopalnik. Because of this, I, who come from Novi Sad, support this project, and of course I love my Novi Sad most, but I like to come to Belgrade, and that's why I'm talking about what I'm saying and I'm staying for this Lex specialis to pass. What I still want to appeal to is transparency. There is no better parameter for developed democracy, justice and the rule of law than transparency. The critics will always criticise, and it's up to us to ask, that's why they have as little reason as possible. As a party with responsibility to its voters and to all citizens of Serbia, who has never hesitated to support all pro-European and reform moves, as a party that has taken over and part of responsibility for the conduct of state policies in order to ensure the overall improvement of all our citizens, I can stress that SDP will support this bill and not only this one, but also all others who will lead Serbia forward, because the well-being of all our citizens will always be a priority to those who live in Belgrade, but those in Novi Sad, Novi Pazar, Leskovac, Zajcar, Sutotica and Shid, because this is my municipality where I was born. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24508	Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24509	I thank Mr. Mijatovic for the very precise and constructive suggestions and evaluations that are already here, because it is very difficult to add something new today after this many speakers, after the opening words of the prime minister, but allow me, however, to repeat just a few important things. So, there's often a question in the public why you're going with Lex specialis, and what is it that we're trying to solve this law? The question is, why isn't that done with individual changes, individual laws? The question is, what's new, what are we actually talking about here today? First of all, let me just repeat the important things. These three laws that are de facto changed by this special law are the Expropriation Act, that's the Law on Planning and Construction, and that's the General Administrative Procedure Act. We are changing them because this project is a challenge for Serbia in a few least dimensions. One dimension is time, missed time. Let me take a personal note, 1970, and I'll go to the Faculty of Economics, and I'll be standing in line in front of the building, and my uncle, the economist, who convinced me to go to the Faculty of Economics, says, "A year, two, and as long as you graduate, this will be nice, clean to Sava." I graduated, ended my career abroad, came here, 45 years later we're going back to the same point. I feel a personal obligation to translate this from word to deed, not to talk about STDZBGD and Prokop and everything else I've listened to for many years, this is the time to do these things. We've made a lot of promises in reforms, we've started reforms, we've made a lot of promises about projects, this is the time to implement projects. That's the first one. Secondly, we can't take one step out of the lethargy of years of missed opportunities and everything else, we need to step by step to do it. These laws need to enable us not only to clear that space and prepare it, this is a step forward for such an important investment, this is also an opportunity for us as an administration, as a state, as a city, as a republic, to show that we can enforce laws and be partners to investors, and even if we do nothing that we can do these things. We've been stopped many times at very trivial things, about the issue of expropriation, about the question of what public interest is, and what are individual rights. We must in the market economy learn where the limit of individual interest is and where the limit of public interest begins. In doing so, I will argue that the private interest is respected until the end, but not for him to be at the expense of general interest. Here the Expropriation Act is amended and public interest is allowed to declare those things that are not in the standard definition. There are infrastructure facilities and apartments when it comes to the social sphere. This is where standard housing is added -- business complexes as an integral part of the public interest, and here not only that, but is an integral part of a complex that solves the central part of the city between Belgrade's old and Belgrade's new one. There's this buffer zone that's been standing there for years. At that time, we had two bridges, today we have four bridges, I hope we have more bridges, but Belgrade, which is divided by one dysfunctional zone in the city centre, which represents the topic of discussion and debate in society for at least a hundred years, and certainly in 1921, since trying to make an urban solution to Belgrade, must be resolved once. Third, let me say as an economist - this is a chance to take advantage of one of the two growth choices. We are all told that in terms of fiscal consolidation, the main sources of investment and exports growth are. These are investments not only abstract but also investments with an investor. Someone once said, "Give me the foundation, I will raise the earth." I say, "Give me an investor like this, we'll raise Serbia, we'll raise Belgrade, we'll do what we couldn't before." This is the opportunity we can't miss. What's she hiding inside? It's not just three and a half billion euros, it's not just 13,000 people and the possibility of our building. It is the possibility that these companies, as they say, will qualify again. They can still produce, but many of them have lost their ability to qualify in domestic and international tenders. This will be an opportunity to perform, to participate in the implementation of these projects and return their own, to redefine their credit ability and their ability to always have, to return to the level that they can participate in our projects that are funded from international sources and in international projects to bring back those markets where we were once sovereign performers, and today we are barely present. The last thing I wanted to say was, these are the effects of this, it's so-called. ‘Break point’. These investments, which will be at about three and a half billion euros within five years, are 10% of the social product, it's not in one year, but it's huge. Rarely, which country has any chance of obtaining investments that are 10% of the social product, our annual capital is about 3%. So this is three times as much as our annual capital investment, this is a huge opportunity to open an engine of development that we haven't used in years. The indirect effects according to estimates, modest estimates or conservative estimates of our colleagues are at least as much. So, apart from building materials, apart from participating in our construction operation, this project needs to raise Serbia to a completely different orbit of the quality of business space housing and urban planning. So, in Belgrade as well as in the employment zone, there is an excess of a certain standard of business space and a lack of another type and another level of business space. "Belgrade on Water", Waterfront is a completely different orbit of that business space. It's going to be a chance to do it in a dynamic that's extremely real. Pay attention, so we're passing this law not only because of these technical elements, but to extend the deadline to five years which is usually a year. Why? Because we want real deadlines for planning to implement this project that will be respected and this project ends, it can become a central part of the city that will be a new quality of life, housing and all of those services that form the basis of a modern standard of life based on quality services, high-income clients and all other related activities that are going to do so. I expect that if we do this the way we predicted here, we do it in the coming years. I think it's too soon to say that, but I think this can translate us into a growth rate related to infrastructure, logistics and other projects we're planning, which will be significantly higher than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24510	The word has been made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24511	With gratitude, dear Mr. Mijahovic, for everything you've said, I would only like to answer two of your remarks. You are absolutely right, we have left one branch of the economy in the previous period, and it is of great importance and with relatively little investment and minimum investment provides us with the largest possible multiplier, which is tourism. We haven't paid enough attention to tourism in the previous period. I believe that just by building the "Beograd on Water" and then by more orderly Danube coast, by solving the problem in Golubac, Lepenski Vir, all the way to Kazan and Kladov, we can make Serbia and in this sense through this Danube region and through all European initiatives particularly interesting. About our mountains and spas not to talk. For the first time, I think that we will succeed with the PIO Fund and the ownership and debt problems to solve so that we can make this successful privatisation to implement and that we can ensure that this health tourism, plus spa tourism, gets the right place in Serbia, not that when our people think about where to go then they go to Slovenia or go to some other countries or half of us go to Morahal, or I don't know where but when we can have it in Serbia on a much better and much higher level. We are about the interest from Europe, which you also spoke of, it is a big deal for our country. We think that in just two years, we can almost narrow down the number of tourists from Western Europe, so almost tenfold it. It is not disputed that in two years we will probably have twice as many as the construction of "Beograda on Water" begins. Our goal is much greater and we will need a particular campaign for this, and that will be agreed on by all political entities to see how we do it. We need political stability for this, and we also need the success of reforms. That's why I talked so much about what people in Serbia already, we think, will be able to feel at the end of this year, of course, most in 2016 and 2017. We will raise the level of the shore forts, because you spoke of them, of the sacks. There will be a high level of shore fortification and some of the world's hotel chains will have a hotel right here on the Sava coast. There'll be some mini marinas done. It will be completely, as Dusan Vujovic said, a different orbit. Are we gonna make it? We'll do our best to succeed, and if we fail, we've started something that can no longer go back and no one can go back to the asphalt bases, no one gets angry with the poor Roma mosses. It is not and must not be the poorest part of Belgrade. We still have 132 beautiful families living in abandoned wagons. We're trying to find a social solution in accordance with the sublaws, offer them some sort of housing solution, although it's not easy and it's not easy, but we're trying and we're going to try. People moved into the wagons and something else came up, some kind of auxiliary facility. There's something else they've done. Now we have to solve this problem. If we could solve this, and with all this, it seems to me, that we dreamed most of it together today, and it got closer, and we started to realize it, because every time I went and didn't accidentally tell you, the honourable MPs, you represent the citizens of Serbia, I call on all the people in Serbia, when they come to Belgrade, go, please, to the building of the Geosave, to the building of the Belgrade Co-operation. Don't be difficult. You can take a walk. You're down in ten minutes. Take a walk to see how the man is solemnly different and how well you feel when you enter that building, as if you have entered certain buildings in Paris or Vienna. We can't reach the Russian baroque and it's not like that, since we talked about Peteburg, but this is so impressive that indeed every Begrader, but every citizen of Serbia, too, can be proud of it. I owe you one more answer. I forgot what the third facility we're going to build in Pazar. It's a diagnostic center, so something about health care. I don't understand anything about that, but they say it's very important both the president of the municipality and Meho and everyone else said it was very important for Pazar. It was done together in agreement with them. After that, we'll make one factory in Novi Pazar and Raska. It'll be a factory for the production and processing of wood. We'll also take and get money from Arab investors. We already have this money. That's seven million euros that we carry directly to the market. I believe people will understand that, too. To complete my response to Miroslav Markevic of New Serbia. There is no difference in our relationship with any part of Serbia. We will also invest additional money in the Stara Planina in the Književci municipality, in eastern Serbia. How much did we invest in Bor, in eastern Serbia? We will invest in Negotin and Majdanpek and Zaječar. About the west of Serbia not to speak, therefore, from Shid, as you mentioned, to Baja Basta and Priboj, and I would say central Serbia. I think what we managed to discipline ourselves, what we managed to change ourselves at least a little bit, and what shows direct, concrete results, because I'm going to remind you, when we adopted the 2015 budget, I told you that I hope we'll have a budget rebalance in which we're going to find higher incomes and lower expenditures than expected in the budget. As things stand today, on April 6th, at the conclusion of April 6, we have all the data, we would be in such a situation. Of course it's too soon. So I ask you to be valuable and diligent, to end up with the second quarter so successfully and with the third quarter so successfully. We have a lot more to do in the meantime, and then we'll talk and negotiate and say it's time for our people and our ordinary people to feel better. Thank you all today for today's afternoon and this first part of the afternoon for your attention and for your comprehensive and good debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24512	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm now setting a break of one hour, so we'll continue our work at 1600 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups report to the floor? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24514	Thank you, Mr. President, Prime Minister, I expected in today's debate to be given, as MPs, the public of Serbia, answers some questions and clarifications about certain controversys that exist, which have been following this project from the very beginning. So far in this debate I haven't won, I'm going to try in these few minutes as far as I can to ask these specific questions and, hopefully, I'll get an answer to that later. This law has three important aspects for me. The first aspect is legal. We're discussing a Lex specialis today, a law that concerns only one particular case. I believe that the Prime Minister, like everyone who's finished Law School, knows it all better than I do, that the laws are passed as a general norm, that they apply in advance to countless cases without bringing about a single particular case. In this way, by passing a law like this, we do not strengthen legal certainty in the Republic of Serbia, we are doing exactly the opposite. There's been talk here about a few lex specials from our past. Each of those mentioned in the '70s related to Gazela, 2009 related to the 11 bus pipeline, did not mention the one from 2013 on the South Stream, are laws that have been passed for a specific project, but an infrastructure project. What the Expropriation Act allows, which is to take away private property from someone with a fee that can't be less than marketable to build... You're taking her away because maybe he doesn't want to give that property to someone else for money, maybe he wants to use her as the Constitution tells him without distraction. Our Expropriation Act prescribes what are the cases when it can be done and nowhere in that law states that it can be done to build housing. This law, if adopted, will take someone's private property and give the other private person a profit based on it. The prime minister said -- it's not true, it's going to be a company that's going to use that property, that's it's creating a business-state space and making a profit. We've heard that in this company, based on the transferred assets, or the right to lease property, as the state of Serbia will have 30, 31, 32%, but someone else will have the larger share and will invest some money, and maybe if this project doesn't live, it'll sell the entire company to someone, to a third, someone we don't know. What happens to the right to use land in that case? How will the state of Serbia protect its interests? We didn't get an answer to that question. The second aspect is professional urbanism. We listened to the opening presentation of the prime minister for 29 minutes on the history of urban development in Belgrade and the work we are discussing today. The professional public who did not participate in the preparation of this law, because there was no public debate, expressed its opinion. Serbia's Academy of Architecture and the Department of Architecture and Urbanism, SANU, named and last name, the most prominent people in the profession, said their opinion. They, unfortunately, had no one to exchange an expert opinion with, because we do not know today, on the other hand, who is an idea maker, in the urban sense, of the project "Belgrade on Water". We had a case that one model served as a basis for redesigning a special spatial plan for a special purpose, and that the plan was signed by people who mainly completed spatial planning at the Faculty of Geographical Sciences. I ask the question -- which expert, with whom should the professional public in Serbia be affected about whether a project like this is imagined, with so many squares of residential, business space, is something that is good for Belgrade? I'm not an expert, but I want, as a representative of the legislative body, that before we pass the law we get part of that debate and we hear different opinions, not that anyone who thinks otherwise labels that he hates someone, that he hates his city, that he hates his country. Were those who were against the Eiffel Tower in Paris marked as haters of their country? In a debate that took place several years ago, as the prime minister said, about building a glass tower in London, members of the Royal Academy of Architects were declared haters of their country, their city only because they had a different opinion. This is not the case with democratic societies. Let's talk, we all agree, I suppose, that land is the greatest potential for the development of Belgrade, but is this the right way? Is it the right way for an investor, who we hear has provided money, but we can't see it anywhere, no paper, no contract still exists... Is this how this potential of Belgrade and Serbia will be achieved in the best way? Let's let everyone give their opinion. Let's not call someone who has a different opinion of declaring them haters. The last aspect I want to talk about is economic, because this is, above all, presented as an economic, means a chance for Serbia's economic development, and based on this today's vote of this law, we need to establish public interest. In the whole reason of the law, there is one single sentence that says – economic analysis has shown that the proposed project is enforceable beyond the aspect of state and local self-government and from the point of view of investors. Not a single number. What investment by the state, which by local self-government, which by the inopartner? What's the profit at the end? In what time will this whole project be completed? It's not there. There's this one sentence. A mandatory point that must follow any law is the financial means necessary to implement this law. It is said that the implementation of this law requires additional funding from the budget. Dot. How much? The only number I managed to write down was 40m euros for the first stage of expropriation, said in the debate. How many stages of expropriation should it be and what is the final number? (Alexander Vukic, from the place: It writes.) I don't know where it says, I'd like to see where it says in this bill of law. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: It writes the 850 first phase of 40 million. Okay, here, I'd like to see the side of this law where it says so. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: It writes.) Thank you, good. We can also ask the question if 179 of the 246 first-stage objects have been solved so far, by what law was it done? We're passing the law today. If it could be under the law, then why doesn't the whole thing end under the law? Why Lex specialise? Why the introduction of legal uncertainty? I will remind you, a week ago, European Commissioner Han said that it is important for Serbia to open chapter 23, 24, which speaks of judicial reform, human rights, that legal security is the basis of democracy, a presumption for investors and an important economic factor. And Minister Kori Udovicki, who is not here today, said last week that the unpredictability of the business environment is what refutes businesses. By adopting this law, which we send, there is no legal certainty in Serbia. That in Serbia political will is stronger than anything. That your investment, your private property will not be protected by the Constitution and the laws, because the political will of a Lex specialist can alienate you from your property for some compensation, just, unfair, will determine a court, but can alienate it from you. It's not a message that attracts investors to this country. It's not a message that all investors are welcome. Only those who have political support are welcome. Only those who are good with the government of the Republic of Serbia are welcome, so the government for them will amend the law, if necessary, to crush the Constitution, to do everything. There are no serious investments in such a country. The government's work in the previous three years, in this way, discriminatory all investors, has led Serbia today to start foreign investment in the region, starting with foreign investments per capita in the region. Four years ago we were first, today we're last. This assembly, and that's where we agree, said the prime minister's adoption of this bill is the key for this project to be implemented until the end. I call on you not to vote for this law, not to adopt it, to develop Belgrade, but properly, by law, by justice, by the laws of this country, by giving everyone who wants to invest in Belgrade a chance to come, to make those investments, to hire Serbia, to hire citizens of Serbia, not only for privileged investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24515	The speech's over. I didn't understand. I'm sorry. President Vukic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24516	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Djurisic, I have never spoken of your hatred or your haters. I was talking about those who are. Whether it's ironic to smile or not, it's your thing, I don't have anything bad to say. I'm going to try to answer everyone seriously and responsibly to the questions asked, and I think it's justified, and it's up to the MPs, of course, to assess that. I want to thank you for your contribution to this very important discussion, and it seems to me that we will be even better able to explain certain legal institutes and certain disagreements that we face in the public in the previous period. I'm going to try to make the same combination that you started out of, so you took three parts of the legal, urban and economic that you analyzed. I'll try every one of those areas to give you the answers you've asked for. You said you took a private here to give to a private. I want to tell you that the minimum, absolutely minimal property that is in private property on Beograda on the water territory is only 5%, and since this second part of the question you were talking about, how we could have solved the issue of 179 objects so far, why we didn't go all the way, is simply a reason, Mr. Djurisic. You could have asked us. These 179 were illegal buildings, in those 179 we had only eight legal apartments and these people in agreement with them, offered apartments or offered money in exchange. I think it's as simple as beans and pure as tears, you'll agree. You could only ask us and we'd say it right away. Since these other objects aren't illegal objects, that's why we need the law to be able to conduct the expropriation. Formal-legal, material-legal, pure as tears, only possible. Everything else would be against the law and the mockery of the law. You said that would bring legal uncertainty. What is involved in legal uncertainty? Legal uncertainty is usually introduced by retroactive laws. A number of retroactive laws, Mr. Djurisic, passed in your time by some who have infiltrated basic human rights, even some tax laws and many others. This legal one doesn't touch retroactively. This law concerns one big infrastructure, traffic, residential, touristic, however you want a project that has enormous economic significance and that doesn't go into the hands of any private. Some previous government, it doesn't matter whether you belonged to it or not, is exactly the same space on the coasts of Danube and Sava, here in Belgrade, assigned to some other privates, tycoons who were supposed to make a big deal out of it. They're not here. They are not here, there are countries here and the state of Serbia will own, say 1/3, it is still the subject of negotiations in the company. When the investor gives his money. I'd like to inform you, since I'm sure you've really asked for it, at least five years from that contract, the investor can't get out. If he comes out after five years, the same guarantees and everything else that stands with the contract, he will have to take over the buyer of the piece, with the state of Serbia having the right to an obstacle to purchase. I think these are the biggest guarantees in the world that you can get in some contractual relationship. I think it's impossible to imagine that you have bigger, better and safer guarantees and of course what I'm saying is absolutely nothing against you, because I know it's impossible that you knew such details. By the way, it says in this text, I don't know what explanation they gave you, it says we need 850 million in dinars for the first phase of 40m euros in total expropriation. It's not our problem. You have here in terms of other numbers on page 12, I guess you got the same thing with all the numbers on it and how much money and how many parts of business space, how many green areas and everything else. So that's the material that we have here as an explanation sent from the government. So, to continue, what I think is only dangerous in your presentation and what really isn't fair, I don't want to talk about the truth about how we started in the region on the contrary, I think that this year we were in the second place in the region with a billion and three hundred million investments, although I see that some people are wrongly speaking, I guess they can't read official data, so they're talking about some 600 million, and we haven't had any big privatisation, that we've had severe floods, heavy natural disasters, and that's, say, twice as much as in 2012, and that's quite a decent level of investment, especially given the great tragedy that our country has hit, and we're behind Poland, we're another country in Europe by the number of employees in line with the newly arrived investments in our country. It's not our problem. What bothers me is that I would never say that about you or your president, and I am grateful when your president travels in the world and when he invites investors and I never hide it. I think it's the size of people in politics to be able to respect someone else's work, to be able to say it's good that someone did something, it's good that someone did something. I don't mind when I talk to Ali about his friendship with Tadic, not at all, not even my vanity, I don't mind talking about it publicly. It never bothered me, and I'll never mind, but it bothers me when you say that only investors who are friends with the government are welcome. There's no investor, an important investor I haven't received. There's no such thing as personal. I've made every effort to talk to every important investor in our country. I tried my best to talk, and I tried to speed up solving the problem. The most honest possible relationship we have with them. You can't say for any of them - you took the money or you asked for something, and none of them will ever tell you that. No man. Because we fought for these people to come to Serbia and to open jobs in Serbia, to employ our people in Serbia and make profits in Serbia. That's why it wasn't fair what you said. You said -- well, model, you don't know who did it. They worked for the City of Belgrade Urbanism Institute, which you are familiar with, where Mrs Gligorijević worked at the time of your authority that spoke about Manhattan in Belgrade. At the time, Manhattan was popular in Belgrade, and now Manhattan is no longer popular in Belgrade, because it shouldn't be Manhattan, we don't need tall buildings, we need buildings I don't know what kind of buildings. The Office for Urbanism of Belgrade and the famous company Ertekiel worked, and here you have in the materials. There's usually the third largest company in the world right here. I think a small Belgrade, conditionally speaking, in the world's frameworks and a small Serbia, conditionally speaking, in the world's contexts in its size is hardly able to boast of some better result than what I'm presenting to you right now. You say, "maketa." Dear friend, that model is, of course, part of what it was meant to be, what about that part of our city to look like and that model looks beautiful, but it also looks like a model of a bridge on Adi Giganlia still standing at the entrance to City Hall today. Look, we didn't put that model away. She didn't bother us at all. We didn't mind at all, even today we're not able to figure out how much access to the Ada bridge costs and when we're going to pay for it. The other day we paid for the construction of access cars, if I'm not mistaken, I'm going to "Miljkovic". The other day, after all these years, we came back to pay for access to the Ada Bridge. It still stands at our entrance to the City Assembly, a model, not as impressive and not as beautiful as this one in the Geozoda, in the Belgrade Association, but still standing. We didn't mind. We don't mind any of that. Everything someone's done doesn't bother us. So I ask you not to underestimate the effort, the energy, the honesty and the responsibility of those people who do it. You talked about it, you think it's the greatest potential, if this is the right way, and we haven't seen any evidence anywhere. Well, we saw it. We've got a building of the Geo-Government that's been invested in four million. We saw what he looks like today. We saw what she looked like just two, three, five, ten years ago. On the other hand, this is the greatest potential. I've been listening to this for a year since some kind of campaign against Beograd on the Water, and I'm asking myself a question – wait for people, if it's really the greatest potential, that it's possible that 70 years no one has taken to cut down the grass, as Miroslav Markicevic would say, no one has taken to remove the garbage, no one has taken to remove a wreck. For seventy years, we've been in a place that is the greatest potential for us to remove 50 wrecks of the ship, unable to remove asphalt and concrete bases, unable to remove the lodge, unable to remove anything. Well, I'll give you that much potential if we're not able to do anything about the greatest potential to do it. We are and we want to do and we want to cut the grass and put it all away. We want to remove both the asphalt and the concrete base. We want to get those wrecks away from the ships. I'll just remind you, since you said it was an infrastructure facility whose infrastructure facility was this Jugorosgas Act? Whose? That's my question for all of us, not for you. I know it's not your fault and it would be very unfair of me to say, yes, it is you. We brought it in. What did that bring us? Nothing. For God's sake, we were just embarrassing ourselves. And this brings us. You say there's no economic bill. I have paper where it's explained not best, but pretty good. The economic bill is to hire so many people. So, to us when they say -- an increase in GDP from 01 to 02% on an annual basis, I think it's possible and bigger because not all of these are accounted for, if Zorana says so and if it's just about construction, then with all the other branches of the economy, it's certainly more. Where are you going to have a bigger effect, where are you going to have a more important effect, where are you going to do something better and more? I think it's something of great importance to the Republic of Serbia, of great importance to our country. As you know, according to the Constitution of Serbia, the ratified international agreements are within their legal power above the law, but must comply with the Constitution. Don't forget that we've already made agreements with Azerbaijan as well. You did them. We worked them with China. We worked them with Russia. What is it that bothers us here? I just can't understand it. What is it that bothers us here? That someone who's very famous and recognized in the world wants to invest some of their money because we don't have it? To be honest, can we do it the way they do it? We can't. If we could, we would. For seventy years, we've been standing and watching, crying over our destiny and talking about how wonderful this is, and down there, we've had three unedited Roma wavings depending on which side of the bridge you're looking at. We've got people down there living in cars. We haven't even been able to solve the issue of groundwater right where those wagons are. We haven't been able to solve this joint in Branko Pesic and Tito's period and we haven't been able to move any of that, and tomorrow we'd only be able to do it if Vukic wasn't here and we'd be much nicer if we hadn't done it in the past 70 years. Something I don't believe or if anything, I don't want to lose another 70 years. I don't want another 70 years of looking into the sky and looking at the bob if we're going to do it today, and we're never going to do anything because we're going to come to work at nine in the morning, we're going to yell at colleges, and at ten o'clock we're already leaving the government, we're doing our combinations, and we're done. This is hard work. This requires diligent, responsible, hard work, and we will provide it. We are ready, Mr. Djurisic, to read your president's statements, Mr. Tadic, he also made good statements about "Belgrade on Water". Of course, as someone in the opposition, there must be a different angle, but he had this attitude that depicts someone who understands what the state is. I don't have a problem with us sitting with you, with all the people who want to, whose issues that are important to the state aren't issues where any party points should be reached. As I told Mr. Chank, so I'm going to tell you and everyone else -- we're ready to sit down to talk, to divorce every doubt. He called Sinisha Mali people from the Architectural Academy, saying that after Easter they will come, they will now have some personal obligations, etc. So we're gonna call everyone, sit down, we don't have a problem with that. We want to solve these problems that exist together, because, of course, it's not going to be easy to solve. We need your support and help, I don't mean the National Assembly in voice, we need support and help to get it through to the end. Because if we face it, and I don't think that the haters are the ones who were against building the Eiffel Tower, but I think they were both right, and Gustav Eiffel and those of the Parisian government and all the arondismans who supported it, to build the Eiffel Tower, because today the Eiffel Tower has visitors more than the Louvre, and it's hard to convince me that the Eiffel Tower is worth more than the Louvre. It's something I think is very important, which I think is very valuable. Because, as for whether anyone loves their city or their country, I believe that everyone here loves their city and my country and I have no problem with it, except that I won't let anyone love this city more than we do, because he gave himself the right to belong to it, because if he's against it, he's always right, and if you're in, then you're never right. Being against is always the easiest, simplest solution. Libnic was basically reason enough, finding enough reason for all the easiest to look for and find solutions. Going on a less-resistance line is no easier. It's the hardest thing to do, like a bulldozer to push things forward and be attacked or stoned from all sides, and yet manage to break through the wall. What we do, we break through the wall so we can live better. I'm interested in what the IMF head of Serbia, Mr. Kim de Han, will say tomorrow, to see how they evaluate our reforms as of March this year. But just please don't go into that kind of negative relationship just because we're political opponents for something where we have a chance. Tomorrow to get them out of here, we didn't lose anything, we just got, we as Belgrade, we as Serbia just won, and that's not going to happen, because behind Albabra there's no telling who's standing and it's known to support the project in that sense. That's how it works in those Eastern countries. There's a Sheikh Muhammad Al Nahjan, and there's no great philosophy. They will want for friendship with our country, of course they will want to help, but they will also want to earn money. They'll do everything they can to raise it to the highest possible level, and we'll be, Mr. Djurisic, on all the world's televisions amongst the first news. The first business news will be on CNN and BBC, on all global networks. There will be something positive about Belgrade. Something positive and good will be heard about Serbia, not something bad. No one will represent us as some kind of savages that we fight, fight or make, I don't know what kind of great Albanias, as some others do today. I think it's good for our country and nothing else, I can't see any better than that. Thank you again for that, thank you for your remarks. I tried and, of course, I'm sure you're not happy with my answers, but I've really tried to make every word and every sentence you've said, I'm giving you exhaustive answers. I'll always try, it's my job, and I'm asking you to try to judge it objectively sometimes, not just from a party angle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24517	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24518	I'm sorry, we listened very carefully to your discussion at the restaurant while we were waiting for food and I'd only like one add-on. I'm glad you're looking closely at this and commenting, but I'd like to add four economic arguments that need to be properly understood. First, this project valorizes a resource that has been untapped for 70 years. It's unequivocally positive economic. Secondly, he puts the government of the Republic of Serbia and the administration of the City of Belgrade under difficult conditions to meet promises that are not easy at all. Thirdly, it attracts initially huge investments of 3.5 billion, which in our situation represent the first test that we are capable of doing something. Fourthly, very important, what it does in many criticisms, which is that this is not a project that excludes other investments, but attracts other investments. What would you say in English "stauding gene", this is a project that will attract new investments. If this project is successful, we have a real chance of having secondary and territorial investments that will come after this, because these investments attract other investors, attract investment in infrastructure, in an airport, in a cargo terminal, in everything else, anything that will be related to these conditions. I am therefore firmly convinced that four economic arguments, the valorisation of the resources of the City of Belgrade, the capacity of the administration and the Government and the City of Belgrade, initial investment at the stage when we have yet to prove our ability and secondary investment, all speak in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24519	Thank you. You want a replica? Who? [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, replica.]] (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24520	Thank you. So that there is no confusion and doubt, that we who have criticised the adoption of this law are someone who cannot even read the law, there are no numbers in this bill that speak of the cost of the Republic of Serbia to expropriate. So, find me a side, show me, that I can't read and we don't know what we're talking about. I said what it says about the economic cost-effectiveness of the project. I can take your word for it or not in what you've been telling me and the citizens of Serbia right now, but I haven't been able to read it anywhere today, get to know it, and we should vote on it today at the end of the day. The public debate is therefore being held in order to clarify all these matters during the public debate. There was no meeting with representatives of the Academy of Architects after Easter to respond that there was no public debate and that Serbia's profession could not give its opinion. It all had to be done before. You keep saying there's no risk, and I'm afraid there's a risk. The city of Belgrade must invest in infrastructure equipment huge money, says here in this bill 33 billion dinars, to bring water, electricity, sewerage, to secure traffic infrastructure. It is estimated that 33.6 billion dinars will eventually be charged, but there is no guarantee that this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24521	Thank you. It's been a while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24522	I'd like to thank you first. Part of what you were talking about is here in the impact analysis, these are pages 11 and 12 in your explanation. You have exactly what the positive effects of this investment are. There's no part of it that I'm talking about, which is 850 million, or 40 million euros. You have here, of course, and how free the area is and how much total investments are, what area will it be of residential, business, commercial and all other space. That's what you even have here on the basis of the law. But if it's one sentence that I said, which doesn't say it, which we have in the papers, I've told you, and that's exactly what it says. So 850m, or 40m euros, depending on whether you're talking about phase one or total expropriation. As for the conversation with anyone else, listen, we can talk for five years, we'd never move from a dead end, because with us, whatever you're doing and if you're talking, I'm afraid people don't want to leave their tough positions when they are and when they're wrong. Sometimes it's worse for arguments if you've made the right arguments. I know that many people today have to speak against, like some people who need to speak for and sometimes think differently. I absolutely believe what I'm talking about today. I believe with all my heart and when I talked about it with Mr. Gilas at the time he was mayor, he said one thing to me – I don't believe it, it seems like a fairy tale to me, and when I see how much you believe it. I told him that more than two years ago, and we got this almost to the signing of the contract, we did a lot of things, we cleaned up a lot, and about investment in infrastructure, so what do we lose to Marco? Well, that's what we get. Well, we're not gonna leave that space for us to fail in the future, are we? On the contrary, we want to build it anyway, whatever it is, we want to build it to be different, to be incomparably more beautiful than it is today. We absolutely don't lose. The vast majority of future infrastructure works will be financed from the contribution. When you finish the first two buildings, then you have contributions from which you can finance the next municipal projects. And not to tell you that within that, except for the clean land, we're going to be together through the company, so whether it's 65-35 or 70-30 it's a matter of negotiation, investing, which they're going to say, they're going to invest more significantly than we are again. I forgot to answer one of the people who spoke positively about the law. They said, “It is good that they do not have the land to belong to them, which they will not possess.” I really don't think it matters. We did it because, of course, it's in accordance with our law, which I'm not sure is good for, because it doesn't attract a sufficient number of investors, because we Serbs are afraid that someone will take our country somewhere. We have not learned that the land is something to trade goods, like any other slave. You need to get someone to pay more. Okay, we'll make a long-term lease, we didn't sell anything because we always wanted to. We didn't invest in business, we always did, if there's any more real estate, we're always more in walls than in business. It's different in the West, that's why they're more successful than we are, that's why they're ahead of us. I think this is a good opportunity for us to move ourselves from a certain way of thinking and get us into it bravely. We will face countless challenges. Who knows what's gonna be waiting for us all in the groundwaters when we make three floors of garages underneath. They say in the trials – we can. We did it in the mouth and more, we can do it here. Whether it works like that or not, we'll see. But if some have managed to build it all below sea level, we'll be able to do the same with modern technology. I guess we can do it all. I absolutely believe, I wanted to tell you, in fact, to simplify in one sentence. Our intention is pure as tears and our intention is to do something for our country. There's nothing of private interest here or anything like that. There is love for Belgrade here, there is love for Serbia, and here there is a desire to hire people, to hire our construction operation, here there is a need to hire Serbia and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24523	Thank you. The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24524	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Prime Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all those citizens who are interested in this topic, and some of them are in this home, some in front of this home, all in all, saying that this is a subject that is very relevant and that is of great public interest. I'm sorry we didn't have a public hearing, so then we couldn't face arguments somewhere else, but here we are, trying to do it here. From us MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the government expects us to support this special law establishing public interest and then a special procedure of expropriation as well as a way of issuing a building permit, and all for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". The government expects us to vote "yes" to "lex specialis" and thus suspend both the Constitution and domestic legislation, those system laws, European legislation, the international conventions adopted by this House, which Serbia itself has committed. All those other investors and all the other investors who want to build anything in this country will have to comply with exactly those regulations and those laws and act on them. But this one won't have to, he'll be totally, we've heard, other rules. All other investors, performers, builders in Serbia, will be subject to the current regulations of Serbian legislation, but only this special one will be subject to the special law we are discussing today in the Serbian Parliament. And why is that? The government wants a few who have negotiated this, I would say, first of all, to a vague secret job, to be freed in advance, or amnesty from responsibility for everything that will happen in a relationship, we are free to say with this affair, called "Belgrade on Water". That's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants. Of course, the government has a majority for that. She's shown it several times. Most in this Assembly react exclusively by party key. We have had many examples of how most in this assembly adopt all those laws that are not the interests of Serbian citizens, even though they are very bad. What is the point, then, and why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia want this law that has a majority in advance, to understand this law is already passed, we are now just taking the opportunity to discuss it, what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to do with this law? The SNS are getting it. I understand the anxiety, but can you establish order?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24525	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you talking quietly today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24526	Can you establish order, let me say, since SNS MPs are very nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24527	That's not what we're talking about. So no one here is an expert on this kind of finding, but please let MP Balša Bozovic finish the presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24528	What's the point? The government wants to transfer responsibility to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because it has an idea to declare someone's private interest a public interest. The bottom line is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is hiding behind the majority in this Assembly and that it does not really want responsibility for the idea of someone's private interest becoming public, moving on to you, gentlemen of the people's MPs, who are making this majority and who are going to vote for this "lex specialis". And that's the point. You will allow me to say a lot on behalf of both the professional public on behalf of both the personal and DS, who has had enough to say in the last few weeks and months on this subject, but also on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, to express my disdain, suspicion and opposition to this intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24529	I ask the MP Sutanovec not to disturb his MP, Balša Bozovic. Don't throw it behind his back, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24530	Please, I can't hear myself at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24531	I can't. Laughing is a natural phenomenon. I can't tell the MPs not to laugh. Please continue. Please, just be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24532	I will explain why I am on behalf of both the DS and the professional public and the good work of Serbian citizens against this intention by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In order to convince Serbian citizens of the necessity of building the "Beograda on Water" and that it will do so, I don't know how well to the citizens of Belgrade, above all, and then to other citizens of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade offered two arguments. One argument is a model from the "Geozavoda" which has changed several times whose author we know nothing about, and according to the expert public who knows much more than all of us here, the question is whether the designer's author has ever set foot in the city of Belgrade. The second argument is "lex specialis". Everything else comes down to marketing, comes down to billboards, posters, promises. If we consider that the project "Belgrade on Water" suggests a party that has already proposed 100 billion euros for example direct foreign investment or a channel to Thessaloniki or a Mercedes factory or an IKEA furniture factory or an aircraft parts factory for Boing Erbas, then we also doubt "Belgrade on Water is growing". If we consider that a potential investor from the government of the Republic of Serbia has already received a $60,000 hotel in Kopalnik less than it was paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and thus provided him with huge money at the very beginning of the contract, then there is still growing suspicion that this project will be transparent, serious and realising. If we know how in this country is taken unconstitutionally from pensioners, if we know how the government treats health workers, educators, officers, soldiers, then we are surprised that the government gives the investor the most prospective part of the land in Belgrade. It is the property of citizens of Belgrade, worth over half a billion euros. The Serbian government is hiding one more thing. That's what I have to say here in public in front of the citizens of Serbia. Serbia's government hides what the costs are, but it does not only cover the cost of building this project, it hides and who will pay the costs. If we take into account the removal of the railway station, the removal of the bus station, the ownership of the station, the construction of the land, the cleaning, municipal equipment, the infrastructure, the completion of the interceptor, the removal of railway corridors that involve, then the construction of the bridge via Vinca, railway road, the construction of the subway, the equipment of Prokop and the completion of the project, then the equipment of the Zemunska and Novobegrad station. Costs listed, according to experts, are over three and a half billion euros. Who's gonna pay for that? The citizens of Serbia will pay. Every employee of Serbia, and there are something under a million and 700 thousand in Serbia, will grow smaller, will pay more than 2,000 euros directly to the investor in the pocket. Let me translate it into another example. For the next 12 years, savings from reduced pensions and salaries will be spent to pay the project's costs as a major precondition, a prerequisite for the investor to invest his first dinar. From his first dinar, the investor will make five and leave Serbia. The idea of the government of the Republic of Serbia that this project is done by a few, to earn a few, and to pay Serbian citizens is a very bad idea and is not in the citizens' interest. That is why we will personally ask the Government today, on behalf of the DS MPs, several key and essential questions, to which unfortunately we know the answer in advance. Is there a contract for the construction of Beograd on Water? It doesn't exist. Is there at least a pre-negotiation on the construction of Beograd on water? There's no such thing. The memorandum is not binding on anyone and is not binding on either side. Does the state of Serbia have any guarantee, before it naturally embarrasses itself in front of the world and the environment and violates its Constitution and system laws, does it have any guarantee that everything promised on that model will be built? There isn't. Does anyone guarantee Serbia compensation if the investor accidentally gives up the project after building one or two buildings? He doesn't guarantee it. Is the state of Serbia over-involved and damaged by May floods, last year's smarter jobs than to throw three and a half billion euros into luxury apartments, business space? Three billion direct investments are being promised, and we know that all 100 dinars have entered Serbia? Do we need a million squares of luxury residential and 750 thousand squares of luxury business space if we know, and Mr Vujovic knows for sure what the real estate market is in Serbia, how low the demand is and how empty the business and living space buzzes empty in the capital, not to mention the rest of Serbia? Does the government know how many similar projects this same investor has offered and promised in other countries? Like Nigeria, Egypt, Kenya, Syria, Turkmenistan, Libya, Iraq? That nothing started anywhere, let alone end or end. The Serbian government knows that very well. Did the Anti-Corruption Agency say that this business arrangement is highly suspicious and that the door to corruption is open? Yes, it is. Has Serbia's transparency told us about this project that it goes far from the eyes of the public and that it is not transparent? Yes, it is. Did 15 prominent Belgrade lawyers submit an initiative to withdraw the law as a part of the agenda because it violates the Constitution and because it threatens the right to private property of Serbian citizens? Oh, my God, it is. Is the government familiar with the opposition to this project by the Serbian Academy of Architecture, which presented its declaration of "Belgrade on Water" as a public declaration? Yes, it is. Does the government know that the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, when we are talking about the profession, has deep and fundamental objections when it comes to the "Belgrade on Water" project? The Government of the Republic of Serbia knows that very well. Has the government heard of opposition from domestic and foreign experts? Yeah, she heard. Does he know about the negative opinions of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, individuals, the dominated architecture in the capital of Mr Dragoljub Bakic, Bojan Kovacevic, academics Brana Mitrovica, architects Branislav Jovin, the highest authority from the Faculty of Transport, Engineering, the International Urban Research Network? He knows the government and their opposition. Do citizens know why this land in the Sava amphitheater area is not called, for example, an international competition for an idea solution, as is the case with every European and world metropolis, and only then is it a public tender for investors, performers of works? Citizens can only assume, and if I were the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I wouldn't underestimate the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a law for which there is an absolute majority, most of them as they have several times shown MPs the SNS can do anything. Of course, after today or after the amendment, you can vote that the globe is cubed, but that's not true. There is always a famous example from the University of Belgrade Law School – most of them voted in ancient Greece for Socrates' death, today Socrates is alive, and the majority who sentenced him to death has long been forgotten. Being in most of Serbia's citizens doesn't mean being right. That's why I'm stressing next. This law deprives Belgrade and Belgrade of dignity, a city that has led over 115 wars, which has been torn 44 times to end up in its city centre what Abu Dhabi built. That won't work. With this law, most importantly, you take away the dignity of Serbian citizens who cannot watch the Sava amphitheater surrender to a special investor in front of their eyes. Citizens who can't watch their money finance failed projects. Citizens ultimately, Serbia, are watching as well as the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, and Belgrade's mayor represent the interests of investors Eagle Hills more than the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. Therefore, it must be clear to all of us after all this has been said, the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot hide behind the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and will never be able to. Because I can still barely finish my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24533	Wait a minute, wait a minute, we're almost there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24534	Since I can barely hear myself, since dignity certainly cannot be taken away from us who are against this law and personally and MP club of the Democratic Party will vote against the Lex specialis. I can only say thank you to everyone for the attention that has been more spectacular and I want happiness both for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for the majority in this assembly in an attempt to legalise something that represents the robbery of Serbian citizens, and certainly does not represent the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24535	Thank you. The first injury of the Rules of Procedure was Dragan Sutanovac, then Vladimir Pavicevic, then Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24536	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, distinguished colleagues who apparently have no understanding of the opposition's voice, I have volunteered to advertise Article 106. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Where is the opposition? Who's the opposition? What's Bojan Pajtic doing in Vojvodina? ) Comrade Babiću, the Democratic Party is an opposition, colleague Babiću, and now you throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24537	I'm asking both MPs and the Shooter and Babier not to communicate through the O.R. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24538	Please ask me not to communicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24539	No, you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24540	... With the person I'm talking to, and you gave me your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24541	You want to tell me what you have on article 106?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24542	Of course, that's exactly why I came forward, which is why my esteemed colleague Balsa Bozovic couldn't present his exposure like all the other MPs who spoke today, including the prime minister. He couldn't because for you, laughter is justified in parliament. You know, when the Prime Minister says - I came to the Assembly alone; and we're not laughing, and he's not alone, it's not because it's not funny, but because we're competent not to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24543	Tell me article 106, explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24544	During the speech of the MP or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speaker in another way, etc. You're Madam Chairman, you even had an understanding of those who threw and now they're winning. Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24545	You can't talk to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24546	Did you have any problems today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24547	You can't talk to the Prime Minister about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24548	I'm talking to you, and you tell the Prime Minister. So, all day long, seven hours we've been listening to exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24549	Thank you, I won't remember everything in two minutes. Thank you. I'm obliged to answer you about article 106. You can sit down. Thank you for your presentation. So that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point, item 1. I listened very carefully to Ambassador Bozovic. Dear Shutanite, from the place, why didn't you warn him? No one can interrupt the speaker, no one has interrupted him. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, how is it not? Don't throw me away, please. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, do you mind when I throw? No, I don't mind. I didn't say anything that bothered me - what didn't bother me. I would also ask you not to analyze me when you expose the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's also not in line with the Rules of Procedure, and what I said about laughter is not harmful, I'll recommend the book of Umbert Eko, you probably heard about this writer, "The Name of Rose", how dangerous and how good he is. We can continue to discuss it when you read that novel, so you'll understand what I wanted to say in that sentence. I can't stop laughing in the O.R. What I want to add to you, therefore, must have traveled many times earlier around the world, visited parliaments, allowed MPs in certain ways to resent when they disagree with someone's speech. Apparently, most MPs here out of 250 disagree with the speech of the last MPs in a series of speakers. They're pounding chemicals in the British Parliament, they're yelling "wow" in the Scottish Parliament, so we can only learn from them how to do it in a certain way, and not overstepping the border, so they don't use the words "stoco", "stort," and so on. You'll understand me, now in this second part of the answer. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) I thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, you were in violation of article 108 during the speech of MP Balša Bozovic. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in whose position 1 writes – O order at the meeting of the National Assembly is taken care of by the President, in this case by the President of the National Assembly. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, we are today discussing an important topic, according to the Prime Minister, of a subject comparable to the debate on the loan contract, the construction and exploitation of our railway, which is leading in the Assembly, not the Republic of Serbia, in March 1881. This is what respected presidents mean that while one MP speaks here, another MP must not throw it to him, and Mr Bozovic was thrown away by Mr Zoran Babic, Mr Vladimir Djukanovic, Mr Giric, Mr Peranovic, all together said "come on, how much" etc., the Honored President. (Alexander Jovicic, from the place: So am I. Your obligation was, Mrs Gojkovic, to tell SNS MPs as a kind of warning that our big hall at the National Assembly is not a party rally hall, that this hall is the sanctuary of our political life...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24551	Will you just keep it down a little bit, it's okay to talk, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24552	I can't be any quieter when the MPs of the Progressive Party are now getting me here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24553	Serbian Progressive Parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24554	Serbian Progressive Parties, Honored Presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24555	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24556	So it was your duty to warn them so you could establish order at the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24557	Thank you for warning me of my obligation to respect article 108 and to take care of the order at the National Assembly session and indeed, I will continue to hold a session the way I led until a set of violations of the Rules of Procedure that citizens do not have a very good opinion. Come to my office and you'll see what citizens write and what e-mails. I ask Natasha Vukkovic not to throw it at me as I explain the article. The explanation is that no injured Article 108(1), as you said, but if you want us to vote of course? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. I invite you to be present. Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Zoran Babic, replica to whom? (Zoran Babic, from place: Replication to the exhibition of Balša Bozovic. The prime minister asked to answer, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is understood that I have listened with attention to all the remarks and in one thing I agree with Mr Bozovic, that it is difficult to speak in a room where people do not listen to you and in which people do not care about the concentration of the one who speaks. The arguments presented by Mr Bozovic, I will try to answer each of them and you will see for yourself that they are not really arguments. Mr Bozovic said we don't have a public hearing. We gave up an emergency procedure that he and his party always resorted to, gave up enough time to talk to the public, to prepare everyone, to prepare the political party, to prepare and damaged tycoons, to prepare everyone and to start acting in public in their own way and we entered into normal regular procedures. Everyone had enough time to get ready to organize the meetings, everything he wanted. We'll come to the expert public later, and you'll see what that professional public looks like, and you'll see how they sometimes use their arguments, and sometimes these arguments are very foreign to them. Mr Bozovic says and it deserves something worth attention to, everything else was mostly pointless political arguments, but deserves something that speaks of both the suspension of the law and the constitution with special attention. Once again, I ask you, Mr Bozovic - who was in power in 2009 and who passed the law of all five members to which you are private, you don't even know who you yourself, gave a much greater wealth and much greater right to use Serbian resources, invisible today for all citizens of Serbia, it's "Yugorosgas", you gave them the possibility of a Lex specialization that went through an emergency procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The number is "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" so you don't pretend not to know where 104/2009 is. There are only five members, and the fourth and fifth members are particularly significant. In all other things that are not governed by this law, the Expropriation Act will be applied, and the fifth is the entry into force of this law the next day since the publication in the Official Messenger. When you give some privates in your hands to have private interests to accomplish without doing anything for your people, because no one yet knows what the people are, what the citizens of Serbia are and what the state of Serbia has won with this. I tried at the beginning of today's debate to explain, explain the legal basis and agree with the Constitution. I was talking about the European Convention on European Rights, I was talking about the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I'm really sorry you didn't listen. You say only one special investor for everyone else will apply the same rules. They didn't apply to all the same rules. This wasn't the same rules, we don't know the money was invested. We've never heard of it. We've never seen it. We don't know whose money or whose pockets they ended up in. Not in the pockets of Serbian citizens. As far as these investors are concerned, there's only one difference. All investors who think to invest 100m euros in our country can make special arrangements with them, we can talk to them at both the assembly and government level. We haven't had one case yet that someone came and suddenly invested that money in our country. It hasn't happened to us in the last 15 or 16 years. You say, Mr. Bozovic, that this is some kind of affair and secret work I came here, Mr. Sutanovac, the height of your decibels doesn't speak in the strength of your arguments, when I said I thought I was speaking personally, and not that I'm not so blind that I don't see that there are more than half of the government members and other people who can talk about it. In this secret business, there is no secret, no point, no contract, no pre-negotiation, no memorandum. It's not exactly a secret. Unlike the contracts I still can't show, which you made, Mr. Bozovic, we opened all our contracts, but we can't open yours yet. We can't because we have strict bans and ink to break all the laws if we discover your contracts, and there's a very important contract, and there's another contract that I don't understand why it wasn't discovered and that's talking about secret jobs. We didn't take three million euros here from Metals Bank, namely the Vojvodina Development Bank, without any bonds, without any guarantees, and we don't owe three million euros of national money here, but you. You didn't pay that money back, not us. It's people's money. I believe that the Transparency of Serbia will report on this and that Nemanja Nenadic will explain a few things to us on this issue, I am convinced. You're saying the government is transferring responsibility to the Assembly. The government does not transfer any responsibility, the government hides nothing of this pride and the government hides nothing. The government does what's best for the country. The government is doing what's best for its citizens. You say you don't know which radio model. Well, you know who worked. You say he's never been to Belgrade. I don't know when you were in Belgrade, Mr Bozovic, but this is what the people of the City of Belgrade Urbanism Office did. The idea was spoken of by the people of your authority, by your authority who insisted on it all along and called it Manhattan in Belgrade, and I'm about to show you, Manhattan at Savi, I apologize, that's what they called it. This is Blic's "24 Hours" list that served them in the election campaign. This is the year 2008, it's probably some kind of campaign, look at the Sava plateau to become Belgrade's Manhattan. Mrs. Jacqueline Gligorijević, director of the Belgrade Urbanist Institute, tells us. How come from Manhattan on Sava, which was obviously your election card, which you were proud of and proud of all of a sudden you're ashamed of Manhattan? All of a sudden, Manhattan in Belgrade doesn't suit you, and suddenly it's against the interests of Serbian citizens. When you need it for the election, then it's good, and when someone else in your words, empty words, goes to the works, that's the problem. I think the citizens of Serbia see this perfectly and understand it even better. You say the same thing as Mercedes and Ike. The Ikea has been struggling for 16 years, 15 years to do something in Serbia, and will finally get a location permit for more of its facilities in Serbia within 20 days. I don't know what you were looking forward to about Mercedes as if I was standing there with some non-existent man, not Mercedes director for Southeast Europe. This year, at least 50 Mercedes buses will be produced in the Icarbus you destroyed, Mr Bozovic. You led to the fact that there were 250 workers who didn't have any salaries, who didn't have any receipts. You have brought "Icarbus" to that point, and we raise it and there will be more than 300 workers who will have a salary, bread and a future, the future for this factory, which will raise our GDP. What's wrong with you? Why weren't you happy here? It looks like what's going to work and you didn't expect it because you couldn't do any of it yourself. You've said it many times -- you take it from pensioners, health workers, cops, soldiers. You took their future, you took their hope. You took our land. You've eaten every chance we've had in the past 15 years. You're still in power, except you don't do anything about it. You have some kind of government in the shade or shadow, whatever you want, every Friday at work. Why don't you do it at that time of work? Why don't you do other work days? When is that when you work? When is it when you work, if you don't work on working days, that I don't expect you to work on not working days? You say they took from the pensioners. I remind you, we have taken the measures welcomed by the whole world: the IMF, the World Bank, the EBRD, the EIB and everyone else. Why? Because it was the only way for our country not to go bankrupt after your reign in which you destroyed and destroyed everything you arrived. You have ruled for 15 years and you continue to rule and you still pose to us as some kind of opposition. A man's been president for 12 years and no one knows what he's doing, where he works, when he's working. Look at the relationship between the former regime at the republican level and the current, therefore, current duchy regime. They say it's the most perspective land. On that most perspective land, in the past 15 years, not 15, but 20 years, as long as you've been in the city administration in power, you haven't even managed to cut the grass. As much as this land was most perspective. You couldn't take your hair, you couldn't take your bra in your hands, so you could cut your hair, and you couldn't do something to build it. On that most prospective one, which you know is worth half a billion. Someone tipped you off. You say we're hiding construction costs. We have absolutely nothing to hide, and unlike you, which in 2013 in the city of Belgrade ended up with a 20.25 deficit, I think it's a world record for all major cities of any country on the globe... We, with all investments and all investments, will have a deficit in the city of up to 7.5%, and at the republican level we will try to go to 4.2, even though the deal with the IMF is 4.75. You were talking about something that was amazing to me, and I couldn't believe you were saying that. You've been in city politics for a long time, and you say, "How much will it cost to move the railway station?" I guess that's what you've been doing for 20 years. I was counting on you to do it. You weren't working on it? What were you doing? Since 1972, it's supposed to be done. It's like that -- are you a musician? I didn't. Then he says, "Well, it has to do with building a subway." Did you sign memos for building a subway that had nothing to do with "Belgrade on Water" had to do with "Afta" and "Ezes", if I'm not mistaken. That's what Mayor Dragan Gilas signed. What does this have to do with “Belgrade on Water”? Yeah, well, we're gonna try to change the course now, so maybe there is, but when you signed it, it didn't have anything to do with it. What does the bypass have to do with it? It's an old traffic node, how many Mrkonjics, 25 to 30 years is working on it. What does this have to do with "Belgrade on Water" now? You don't even know what you're going to say anymore, so you can just go public with something to say something. Then you say -- it's all three and a half billion. Good, you've brought down nine billion, but what does that have to do with all this? Our total costs, all that we and the investor and everything else are going to do together about infrastructure supervision in the area of "Beograda on Water" as it lasts in all phases will not come out more than 270m euros. Where did you get to three and a half billion? What were you doing here? You say, "Is there a contract?" No contract, if he had a contract, if he had been in accordance with the law, we wouldn't need this law. It's the same thing with the prenup. You say - do we have guarantees if they don't? We'll look to find some guarantees, but the money gives the investor, and please find us only one investor, it doesn't take three billion to give, just to offer us 100 million euros for something, for anything. To offer us 100m euros, and we will accept it immediately and say it - you're absolutely right, we can do it. You say, "What will the people who are flooded say?" I don't know what the people who had an earthquake in the King or in Mionica will say, who never got a good share of their houses for which numerous criminal charges for malfeasance and crime were filed. For the floods, I know that we did, even though it was the most difficult elemental disaster that has hit our country, I know we've done a lot more. People will never be satisfied until the end, but I think we've done a lot. Tomorrow, once again to invite you, you are welcome as a National MP in Krupanj, we open a factory and give 120 solutions to workers in Krupanj who have been hit hard by May floods, and it would be good for you to be present as a MP. You say – do we know what the real estate demand is? We know it's getting a little better, something better than in your day. It's not good, it'll get better. You say – respected lawyers signed, among these prominent lawyers, when we talk about these names and Mr. Srecko Pecikoza. A famous man, well-known for his investment in the Surcin Municipality. You promised 80m euros in investment, zero dinars invested, of course. Now, in about a month's time, all the deadlines are running out, so you'll be fully familiar with everything. It is understood that the "Belgrade on Water" project bothers that. You say: SANU and the great experts, and among them you mention the expert Branislav Jovin. Branislav Jovin is a great expert, it's true. Is that the same Branislav Jovin you didn't let show up on TV for two years who was the biggest opponent of the Ada Bridge, the one who said there was some sort of manifestluk and thief, are you talking about him? Are we talking about the same Branislav Jovin? Mr. Bozovicu, I was born in this town, I grew up in this town and I've been in politics for a long time. I know every one of these people, and I know what's who and when he's talking. You're a little younger than me, so it's gonna take you years to learn all about these people and see which one of them has been saying anything and nothing bad when I'm saying this, just keep in mind that you don't underestimate a political opponent, because maybe that one has a little more experience. You say - international competition, if my friends, now you see what we've been through and done nothing. Here are the architectural and urban competitions organised for significant areas in Belgrade. A general public anonymous two-stage and open competition for the idea of an architectural conceptual solution and a spatial programme analysis of the reconstruction and addition of the National Museum in Belgrade in 2010, went, did not pass, unrealised. An open international anonymous one-stage competition for an idea-based architectural solution for the new science promotion centre in New Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia, an idea for science and art campus in 2010, you remember how it was painted on TV, as Boza Djelic was a great actor and a great star. Of course, it's forgotten, and it's unrealized. "Therage terrace", a.d. for insurance, "Europe Internacional" Belgrade, "Energoproject", "Holding", "Enjub" and "YugoslavijaComerc" foreign and internal trade company in co-operation with the Association of Architects of Belgrade and the Union of Architects of Serbia. A competition for the development of an idea solution to the partner arrangement of the central public area of the "Terrasic Terrace" in Belgrade in 1998 -- unrealised. Also in 2006, a solution to the "Terrasian Terrace" move towards the Sava amphitheatre – unrealised. Blocks 25, 26, 2007 – unrealised. Slavi Square in Belgrade in 2005 – unrealised. Slavi Square in Belgrade, 2012 - unrealised. The new Belgrade and Sava amphitheater in 1985 and 1991 -- unrealised. The concrete hall, scheduled in 2011 - unrealised. A memorial to the victims in 1999, for 2013 – unrealised. Block 42 New Belgrade, the urban architectural solution of the bus and railway station Novi Belgrade and the business-commercial complex Block 42 in New Belgrade in 1996 and 2014 – unrealised. Well, we want to, Mr. Bozovic, make something real in this country, not make nice pictures for the paper. You say, "Most of you can do anything, I didn't know you turned yourself into Socrates." I had a very high opinion about Socrates, and then you said it was being taught at Law School, so I have to tell you that there is no majority in parliament, since most of you in parliament have spoken, ruled Socrates, but the Athenian court ruled Socrates. That's good. I wish you'd kept it here until the end of law school in Belgrade. I'd also like to point out to you that when you talk about doing something, don't like God asking you to threaten, don't do it because we've been listening to stories about the Ukrainian script. Today we hear from Eddie Rama about how he will unite Albania and Kosovo. We've heard from you in the election campaign on Ukrainian scripts, we listen every day about how riots are gonna be, because you're gonna protect someone. As God, please stick to the law, stick to your parliamentary bench. You have every right to this world to say what you want, to do what you want, but in accordance with the law. The fact that you're threatening to allow something or not, no one in this country will allow it, in accordance with the law. To scare me with it, it's like scaring a bear with a grate. In the end, you say -- you represent the interests of Eagle Hills, not the countries. Mr Bozovicu, I represent the interests of the country and the interests of our citizens. I'm at any moment, at any moment, and I'm not sure about everything, when you think I'm ready to go anywhere to check out any way that I've ever taken from anyone a single dinar, except for what I got as my own salary. No one in Serbia told you that and no one on the outside told you that. Please don't treat honest people that way. The truth is that Tijanic has long been correctly saying that everyone is moving in a circle of their own corruption, but I am not quite in agreement with him and I want to believe that people have to go from respect and respect to other people. When you say - it's a robbery, it's a robbery, it's a mockery, it's a wreck, and it's an outpost, and it's a big city, which we're going to try to hire people, we're going to hire a construction industry, which we're going to try to bring something new, a new European debt, to bring something big to this country, I think it's the most honest and best thing that could happen to the country. If you think that in saying an insult that you have achieved your goal, I have nothing against it, but I ask you once again to explain to me that they hear Serbian citizens under what conditions your party has received a loan from the "Vojvodine Development Bank", why did you not return it even though it was three years ago, when will you return the people's money? As for building Belgrade, I can also cut and bra to use. I'd invite you to cut some grass somewhere, so we can at least do something extra about it, and I've seen that you couldn't do it so far. Make sure you look a little bit like the ones who are going to do it and who are going to do a lot more than that. When you talk about nothing being seen, Mr. Bozovic, before you answer me for this "Development Bank" loan, don't forget that I have the text in front of me of the contract, so I'll read it to the people a little later, just to tell you – people in Serbia want to see the real results, not how many tweets you're going to play daily and how much insult you're going to make in your paper on my or on behalf of other people. It doesn't matter much. It is an important result and the future of Serbia is important. I invite you to join us in that. Welcome tomorrow to Krupanj where we'll resuscitate Krupanjka, which you have managed to destroy, and some before you. And there people will be able to start working again, as in many other places throughout Serbia. Thank you for your attention, and you're welcome to help with this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24559	The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24560	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. It's a little unequal when someone's been talking for 25 minutes, and I only have two minutes to answer. But here's what I'm gonna do to make sure that with all the grace and throw... (National MPs of the SNS speak out loud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24561	Please, just keep it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24562	... At least answer a few things. First of all, as far as the loan is concerned, of course I'm very interested in this topic for the simple reason that DS took a 360 million dinar loan, paid back 480 million dinars per interest of 16.8%, which is the best job in the history of the bank. But I also hope that you will say how and how you took two loans from the Universal Bank which then failed. As far as the robbery is concerned, I never said that you were robbing Serbia, but I ask you to suspect anyone who was founded that law enforcement authorities in Serbia and institutions bring him to justice, so that at last someone is convicted of the robbery. I wasn't talking about cutting and not cleaning. It's supposed to be cleaned up and it needs to be cut and I don't have a single word to add, but I do have when there's a 1974 contract ahead of us. I said the robbery is when you give the land of the Sava amphitheater to an investor and it's not yours, it's not yours, but according to the 1974 contract, the land belongs to the citizens of Belgrade. That's what I told you about, and I'm pretty sure that's what I'm starting to think is that when we give away something that doesn't belong to us, it's what I think it is to citizens who live in the capital. I was also born in Belgrade and you don't like this city any more than I do, I'm not saying I love it more than you do, but I just think that, last sentence, I'm finishing, is this opportunity to face arguments, not insult ourselves. I have my own opinion and my own thing and you can't be angry about it. You're here to answer questions, not ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24563	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24564	You're right. I'm here to answer questions. Mr. Bozovic, you heard what he said the interest was signed at 16.8%, now you'll see what it's like to be false. I asked them to bring it to me because it's a signed interest of 16.8%, you know when? When they were informed they didn't have the money to pay back, which is what the new government was looking for. Those when they signed not that it wasn't 16.8%, but you'll see under what conditions and without any collectors, without any security, which no citizen, no firm in Serbia could ever sign. So much that you have in mind. Since I've been running financials in the SNS, then Tomislav Nikolic has managed and returned all the loans, we've never taken any credit. We're spending a little money. We're saving up. We act like the Serbian government, to tell you the truth, and we don't have any problems with the banks, we don't have loans, and I guess that shows who's dealing with the money. As for cutting and cleaning, when you haven't thought about cutting and cleaning for 20 years, it's good that you support it. As for investors, it will only belong to the citizens of Belgrade, as none of the citizens of Belgrade could go there. None of the Belgraders have ever walked there. He's never even been down there since Belgrade. He had nowhere to go. Where do you want him to go? When were you, Mr. Bozovic, in Bara Venice? When was I, except in the election campaign, and when we visited a couple of families living there twice? We didn't go out there? Was there anything nice and successful you did and did? As someone born in Belgrade, I suppose you should be satisfied, proud and happy that the Belgrade Co-operation looks that way. You should be proud to show everyone one of the most beautiful buildings. Please don't be a god, we didn't participate in privatisations that robbed Serbian citizens, not one. Not in any, and I'm not going to tell you how many workers are out of work, how many people have lost their futures in the time you've run this country. You've eaten a lot of things in this country's future, but I'm, however, ready and fully accepted your idea to talk, to face different opinions, to express different attitudes, and I think that's crucial to Serbia. It is good that there is no discussion today of any elevated tones, and therefore I only ask you that when you seem to be able to prepare yourself to be a little quiet then, that you do not threaten anyone, because neither anyone is afraid of these threats, nor are you too much of a force, and there is a third reason, no one who threatens would do any good. I remind you of the threats made by the Ukrainian script when nothing like this happened in Ukraine. I warned you today, and this has nothing to do with you, to fence myself immediately, but it's very important, because that's what I've been saying, I mean, Serbia's position and I think all of you in this assembly, I've warned, five times, I've kept the statements of Mr. Rama and the joint statements of Rama and Mustafa and Rama and Thaci. We have always tried to find the best and the most beautiful language possible with Tirana, but today they are hardening with these statements that they will unite with soap or force either under the European cap, or without the European cap. We're not threatening anyone, and we're not threatening anyone today. The only thing I can tell Mr. Rama and Mr. Thaci - is that it would be good not to dream those dreams because those dreams of uniting Albania and Kosovo will not matter who supports them in this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24565	Minister Vulin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24566	You know, we've been listening to jokes for months at the expense of Beograd on Water, Belgrade underwater because that's never going to happen. Remember that we listened all the time from our respected opposition colleagues that "Belgrade on Water" will never happen, that it is a marketing trick for one election, that it is something that will never happen, and now that they have seen it happen safely, they are now attacking the law that makes it happen. If you noticed, no one is polluting that this is good, that this is good for the citizens of Belgrade, that this is good for the citizens of Serbia, that it's good to have hundreds of millions of euros in investment, that it's good to hire at least 15,000 people, that it's good to earn income from taxes, that it's good to hire our industry, that it's good to revive the construction industry. No one's breaking the law. This is about politics and nothing else. Nothing else. Just as it is not true that there are 1,700,000 in Serbia, as you said barely 1,700,000 employees. In Serbia, on the basis of a labour poll conducted by the Republic Statistics Institute, which is, to remind, a reference institution, 2,322.201, a person is employed. This is true. This is true, and we can talk about it politically, as we say here, and humiliate every institution in this country. It would be good and it would be very good if these lawyers, whom you are talking about and who are talking about protection in preventing the robbery of private property, had raised their voice when the democratic ruling majority then passed the Privatisation Act, which directly violated the Constitution, abolished social and cooperative property, directly, by introducing a privatisation obligation for collective forms of property even though they were protected by the Constitution, and the Constitution said that all forms of property were equal. That's when they were supposed to raise their voice, so there wouldn't be a robbery privatisation, so there wouldn't be a country like this, or a country where there's still the consequences of the robbery privatisation that you just did. No one's pampering with the project, no one's polluting with what's going to be done, it's breaking the law, and it's not even breaking the law. As we can see, there's no law being read here, so you can't see where it says it's explained, how much is said, what are the costs. No one's been running since the debate. On the contrary, the debate could have been over a long time ago. At the initiative of the Prime Minister, the law has just entered into a regular procedure. She didn't try to make any single shortcuts. So this is good for the citizens of Belgrade, this is good for the citizens of Serbia. We can attack politically, but without a single argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24567	I thank Minister Voulina. The word has a minister of justice, Mr Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24568	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have already tried several times here to push through one thesis, which is that by passing such a law in Serbia creates legal uncertainty. It would be funny if it weren't sad, especially when it comes from someone who calls themselves a graduate lawyer, whoever it is, and more has brought them out here. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if many capital projects in Serbia, which the state of Serbia has exclusively and fully funded, were regulated by such laws, we would not have projects that have been waiting for them to be completed for decades, we would not have corridors that we have been unable to complete for decades and we would not have expropriations about which court disputes have been conducted for decades. We would have a much higher level of responsibility for state bodies, public enterprises and all those involved in the implementation of such projects. I'd like someone to tell me one single sentence, argumentarily and legally signed, what's so untransparent about this bill? Legally subdued, I said, esteemed colleague. So let's see what's untransparent. A pausal sentence -- there's a possibility left, which is not explained, whoever gave it, whatever state body or NGO that it is? And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me read a list alone. (The Minister quotes universities in English) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24569	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, allow the minister to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone has just given himself the right to say: Abu Dhabi will not be able to. Well, I will. Make it a third of these universities in ten years in Belgrade, a third of those that are now in only one Arab Emirates, the United Emirates, and that in Emirates Abu Dhabi. Would you like a list of the 26 most exclusive world hotels from four to five stars, which were raised only in the previous decade in Abu Dhabi? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "We will." Then correct your colleague who said – Abu Dhabi will not be able to. If it could have been in the desert, then it could've been here where God gave everything and where the devil hadn't given anything for a long time, but he can. The will of the people is the Supreme Judge. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, determine by this law the existence of public interest and help us pass a law that will lead to important tectonic, economic, cultural, economic, if you want tourism changes in Serbia, as well as in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24571	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure has the MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24572	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe he's a injured member of 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I answered, not for the last speaker, but for asking you to give me a replica of his exposure because he was talking about my claim that this law introduces legal uncertainty, so let me answer that. I answered the presentation of the previous speaker who spoke about privatization to the robbers. Privatizations of robbery are not these topics. Mr. Minister, it's not as much a subject as the official data provided by the Republic Statistics Office. I can understand that you wanted to answer, but you responded falsely. Officially, at the end of the year, the Republic Statistics Institute announced that in Serbia it was employed...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24573	Mr. Djurishic, are you turning this into a replica of the minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24574	... 1,689.000, which is 1.3% less than in 2013. It's official data, anyone can look at it, the Republic Bureau of Statistics. It is in the draft budget because it is the only job that is relevant for receiving budgets, for paying taxes and contributions. Now I ask you to give me a new time for Mr. Selakovic's replica, because he was talking about my tendency to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24575	Did you explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24576	Yes, I'm done hurting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24577	Thank you. My authority is to answer what you said. You have very consciously abused the Rules of Procedure and turned it into a replica to the Minister you spoke to. Also, you don't allow government members to answer all the questions you ask. You're not talking about the subject in 90% of your presentations, but since you don't have the arguments for the subject, you're talking about everything else. Now you're in trouble when the minister answers what you asked him. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I did not ask him anything on the subject, and I spoke very much about the subject all the time and I ask you to answer Mr Selakovic. ) Mr. Djurisic, do you want the Assembly to plead because of what you have abused the Rules of Procedure by reporting on the line? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a chance to replicate. Mr Balša Bozovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24578	Thank you. Let's just get back to the point we talked about. We claim this isn't a development project. This is a project that is in favour of one person, which is at the expense of the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. Why? Because citizens will pay for this project. What we were about to say, and we were talking about clearing up the territory of the Sava amphitheater and that space of 187 hectares, so it's very important that it be arranged and cleaned up, but why not call an international competition for an idea solution? Why wouldn't everything be transparent? Then why not make a public call to potential investors? Then why not make a public tender for potential contractors, when we all agree, citizens living in that city, Serbian citizens, as they see downtown Belgrade? One minister says -- I want Abu Dhabi, God has given everything here to be Abu Dhabi. I said in my first presentation, I didn't threaten anyone, I said – it won't pass. But what won't go away? It's not gonna work to change the city's identity. It won't work to change one "Winner", the Kalemegdan Fortress, the Nebojsa Tower, the Savamala for a solitary or hotel. The identity of Belgrade City with its cultural heritage, with its history, is worth 100 Abu Dhabi. He's more beautiful than 1,000 Dubai, with all that spirit that's been leading for the last hundred and hundreds of years. Belgrade is sacred and from Belgrade will never be Abu Dhabi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24579	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24580	Dear Mr. Bozovic, I very much respect that, like me, like everyone in this room, we love this city and it will always be nicer for us. It seems to me that in our time, even though you were a little younger than me, we knew every vair, every architect, every man who left a trail in Belgrade, and it is true that Toma Roksandic, and Simon Rosandic, a man with a snake, are much more than anything I could see in Dubai, but it has no connection to whether it can attract more tourists, whether it can economically contribute to the improvement of Belgrade and Serbia, or not. You see, you say - it should stay that way. Oh, I don't think he should stay that way. I don't think even these 116 sewers in the Sava are supposed to stay and survive. I don't think he should be in this place, what used to be a "little market", before that cattle market, and today much uglier than all that, I don't think he can survive at any price. You're talking about private interests, so I, Mr Bozovic, didn't go to promote Luke Belgrade's private interests, and our tycoons, but the representatives of your government, and they went to Cannes. Listen, when you're talking about not giving up the competition, I tried and I read you 20 contests from your period, none of them worked out, none of them found an investor. I've read you twenty contests for both those in New Belgrade and those in Slavia and other parts of our capital's central city. Nothing worked. Who do you think wants to come? Come on, tell us who the competition is. We've been looking for him for 20 years. Whether Miskovic will give 150m euros of his own without taking others. He won't. Trust me, it won't. Although he's not as incompetent as many others, but he won't. What's the problem? What's the big deal? The problem may be that someone else will succeed. Not someone else, it's our joint success, Mr. Bozovic. I just want to point out one fact to your dear friends, you just heard, please get out of the stenogram, to see if I'm cheating on the public or not. You said, Your Honor, that you agreed on an interest rate of 16.8%. I will read to you what the "Vojvodine Development Bank" contract says, made with the "Vojvodine Development Bank", and then you tell me if another citizen, whether another institution in this country has rights as DS. Give me the name of a man and an institution who would have rights as the mentioned political organization. Namely, the contract was concluded on 8 June 2012 in Novi Sad between the "Vojvodine Development Bank", the Democratic Party. The object of the contract is 360 million. Credit is granted with a six-month maturity. They're all standard standards. I'd like to read you the interest, Article 4. - The credit user is obliged to pay the bank interest on the amount of credit used under this contract from the day of use until the date of repayment of the loan that is 1.4% a month on the date of conclusion of this contract. So, I apologize to you, it's not, please, give someone without any collateral for six months on such terms, without any security. Here, you have a complete contract, a calculation of interest is carried out by a concise method, and a review of the conditions for changing the rate of interest is done quarterlyly, without any collateral. You gave it away without any security. Tek, you have an annex to the contract, Mr Bozovic, you also have an annex to the contract, only in it after the change of power in Serbia comes the conclusion of contracts in which you have to carry out your obligations and provide collateral and security. That's outrageous. Well, it's a unique case in this country that someone could have done it. I'm just asking you not to learn on such examples how we should rule. You can say -- well, we made a mistake, we thought we'd win the election, we'd go back, so that's fine. And they'd kind of accept that. And everyone would accept that, because somewhere there's an explanation, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24581	Miss Jerkov, don't throw away, please respect the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: said the president that we could... )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24582	Don't stop Mrs. Jerkov from throwing it away. I think it's all right for her to throw, and I don't have a problem. Was it before, or after the election, so much worse, I guess that's when you thought you were going to form a government before Dacic decided. Yes, it is, it's in the sixth month, it seems to me, until Dacic has yet to make a decision on which side he will go. Let me just go back, get back to this subject of ours. So I'm just asking you that when we talk about this project, and all the other projects, we try to be quite objective and see what it is that we can contribute to, and what it is that we can fix. I would ask you, Mr Bozovic, fully convinced of your good intentions, that all the objections you have, which are not political content, all the essential real objections, all the objections that can lead to this project being better done, better done, better controlled, here, I suggest you enter the body, join the organisation, give your representatives to the company "Belgrade on Water", that you can control every dinar where, and how it goes, that you can see everything, both you and representatives of the SDS, and representatives of Mr Chank's party and all other political parties. We're not hiding anything. We want it built to make Belgrade and Serbia progress. We want it to be built to make it a nicer city, to make Belgrade a better city, and that Serbia can employ more people. We don't have any secrets, and you're welcome to that team.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24583	I thank the Prime Minister. Professor Janko Veselinović answered the words. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24584	Dear Chairman, you are obliged to respect this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and when MPs speak, when members of the government speak and when the Prime Minister speaks. Article 106 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. We came here today to listen to the government's explanation of "Belgrade on Water" as popularly called the project. We didn't come here to listen to how much SNS was in charge of the Universal Bank, or how much other party was in charge of the Development Bank. We have come to hear how much the "Belgrade on Water" project will cost Serbian citizens, and it does not say in the law that we have received, and we have made it clear today. The Prime Minister said it orally, but we'd like to talk about it by 12 a.m. today, not after midnight. Please, Chairman, please, of course, the Prime Minister, but you are here to respect the Rules of Procedure, to allow us to discuss today a law concerning land expropriation in the Sava amphitheater area, not to discuss some other topics that the government would like to discuss. We want to talk about a law that we think is bad and that threatens some of the fundamental foundations of the rule of law, but let's also say that we face our arguments and the authorities, because we couldn't do it in a public debate, because there was no public debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24585	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Since you often want to be a lawyer to the parliamentary group, please ask them not to talk about these topics and do not even try to challenge the members of the government the possibility to answer questions asked, because they are here today to answer all questions of the MPs. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24586	Article 108 is injured. A regular session of the National Assembly is taken care of by the president of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman, and in relation to Article 106, where the speaker can speak only of the agenda. Well, first of all, I'm asking where Mr. Prime Minister's contract from the bank came from, and how can we listen to the subject of credit today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24587	Therefore, the stage of asking questions does not go through a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24588	So today, as you know on the agenda, a coloquial term is "Belgrade on Water", a law on a single project that we consider to be nakarad and bad. However, the prime minister insists on things that are not the subject of today's agenda and the chairman who was before you did not warn him. It's not a topic or SNS credit at Universal Bank, I remind you that one SNS MP was in prison because of the bank or the topic is our loan in the Vojvodjanska Banka, the topic is the law concerning "Beograda na Voda". When you speak, Mr. Prime Minister, 1.4%, say it's on a monthly level, not on an annual basis, it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24589	Ambassador, you're exactly what you're doing to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24590	What? Please, I didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24591	Please, just sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24592	Please, just a little louder, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24593	Who did you tell? Who do you call louder?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24594	To you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24595	To me? Well, I can't scream like some MPs, so I'm a little more subtle in telling my decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24596	You look tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24597	Thank you. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24598	I'm absolutely right, I'm wrong. The man's talking about the loan, and it has nothing to do with today's agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24599	Okay, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24600	So, the agenda is clear, we're talking about the "Belgrade on Water" law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24601	You'd like extra time, I understand, it's 6:00 p.m. and you don't want to wait until you're 28 on the list. So you'd like us to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24602	Of course, we wouldn't just end up talking about what was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24603	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was not done. The prime minister responded.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24604	How is it not done?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24605	Please don't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24606	Who asked him how much credit did DS take?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24607	I don't know that way of communicating with people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24608	Well, it's not, it's democratic, it's not radical, I should...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24609	The session has never been better, more content and quality both in behavior and in the information we have received.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24610	If I were to... You don't understand. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24611	Please, to answer you, it is my duty, whether or not I have to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24612	... You don't understand. )......................................................................................................... Flying a shoe, they'd recognize it as... You don't understand. And it's just amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24613	All right, then there'll be a letter from Jerkov. I thank you for not wanting an answer, really, so that we don't waste valuable time and go back on the subject. More MPs asked us to return to the topic, Belgrade as you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24614	And if there was a vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24615	What's to vote on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24616	About the injury I mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24617	Well, I'll do it for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24618	Don't do this to me. It's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24619	We're going to vote even though you didn't bid a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you used...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24620	Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24621	I'm very tolerant and I won't take away your group for two minutes. Don't throw it away, I won't punish you, because I think...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24622	I'm gonna whisper, and you've been away...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24623	... That fines in some cases mean nothing. I'm more responsible for socially responsible work if my colleagues agree on the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24624	... You've been to lunch, I have no idea where you've been, which I should know where you've been, I don't care at all, but it's amazing that you're doing this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24625	... To introduce a substitute for a fine for community service, I think the citizens of Serbia would respect it more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24626	... The Prime Minister's been doing things that aren't in line with the agenda all day, and it's against us now that we're responding. He breaks a man's Rules of Procedure all the time. It's embarrassing, Mother.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24627	Thank you. We'll vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24628	No one's ever done this before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24629	I'll delete the list, the prime minister called, wants to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24630	A man comes in here and gives us a lecture for eight hours, it has nothing to do with the agenda, nothing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24632	I'm sorry if I contributed anything, I don't have a problem with apologizing, I'm just, I'll remind you, as much as you didn't want to notice, and as much as you sometimes have different arches, I've been responding to stories about pensions, salaries, robbery, and everything else, so I'm within the scope of the robbery that you've been talking about right now. By the way, there's only two small differences. One is first, the SNS has returned all the loans and all the national money, and the DS isn't. The other thing is, the SNS had to give collaterals in double the amount of the loan they took, and the DS didn't give anything. So, I just want to point out to you a huge difference, and I don't want to deal with it anymore, and once again, I apologize to the honourable MPs, I wish I hadn't jumped out of this topic, that and the Socrates thing, I guess it was the only thing that I jumped out of the topic and I'm going to try not to get out of the topic by the end of the day, but only to answer your questions about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24633	I thank you, too. Ambassador Bozovic, there is no replica, because you want to say that the prime minister invited you to participate in the project. We agree, you'll participate in the project, you really won't, you said to get back on the agenda. The word is Alexander Jovicic, as the last on the list of authorised speakers, to make some order and get back on the subject, and the representative of the Socialists is still, I apologize. First, Alexander Jovicic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24634	Thank you to the President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and People's MPs. I would not agree with this fact that DS officials are the management of Beograda on Water, because I don't think the water would stay from the whole project, and let alone something more for the citizens, because here today we listen to eight hours of one debate, where on the other hand we can't see any arguments. Analyzing all the statements, I came up with one key piece of information that came to my attention, which is that obviously MPs of the former regime have one problem, because this law is in the public interest. If the law was in the personal interest, you'd probably be in favor of the law. I will give only a few examples of what the public interest means, and what the personal interest that took place and was taking place in Belgrade while my colleague across the street acted as the city's government and was one of the closest associates of the former mayor. For example, the public interest is a bridge on Ada. We all want to have dozens of bridges. However, if you look at the price of that bridge, we realize that there is obviously some personal interest. Is it possible to build one bridge of Zemun-Borch, which is three times cheaper and three times longer? It's just unexplainable. Or someone, I'll be free to say it, I'm not afraid at all, stopped Gilas from recalibrating the Chinese. On the other hand, Spanish trams, 82m euros. I say we need the trams. But we have a problem. How can the same tram be obtained in Hungary at a price of 400,000 euros, which were cheaper than ours in Belgrade. So we have a conflict of public and personal interest again. That's the only thing that smells like someone had a personal interest in raising the price of our trams. Then, the bus "Solaris", the price of the bus "Solaris", is 300,000 euros, and for one bus "Solaris" two "Icarbus" buses can be bought. So much for how much you care about the Serbian economy, about "Icarbus", "FAP", and about JAT that I don't talk about how you ran, how much you cared about employees and our company, and these are the results of your authority, Mr. Bozovic. On the other hand, is the public interest in buying an Inex building, here I ask you, Madam Chairman? So we gave a billion and 200 million dinars for that building, and what kind of public interest was that? Someone is accusing us of hiring an administration, and we ourselves have introduced a law that defends it, and on the other hand, they have bought a 20-story building for their administration in their time. So much for DS, and citizens don't have any of it, from the Inex building. Who needed that? It was important to spend the money of Serbian citizens. Then, installing underground containers. What did he have now of those underground containers, the chairman? We don't have anything. We have one of the ruins, which is just the same as those wrecks we're now removing from the move where we want to build "Belgrade on Water". It rusted, ineffectively, cannot meet the capacities they have imagined but is given 10m euros for it. What's the point of the whole story now? It was done by a company that was founded as a cable company. Is it in the public interest or was it a personal interest of the company that was close to you and your regime. This is what Serbian citizens need to know, because everything that is not personal bothers you, more specifically everything that is public, which is not personal and is shown by Dragan Gilas and many in your party. When we talk about the Vojvodine Development Bank, that you have returned the loan, but do you know how you gave loans to companies that were very close to your party, by giving 200 000 euros for the loan, and this someone then repays you in the form of 143 thousand toothbrushes. Well, is that in the public interest, toothbrushes? Well, it's in the public interest that someone who's raised a loan makes extra value, for money, gives back to the state what's hers, and what's after he invests and hires people, and you've returned toothbrushes to the state and that's your policy of the former regime and the DS. You say - citizens will pay for this project. This is a three-and-a-half-billion-dollar presidencies investment. This isn't going to be paid by citizens. But all that I've said up there is the bridge on Ada and the Spanish trams and buses and the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, it's a public interest where suddenly it appears that someone six million euros has been spent more, but that's not paid by the investor, that's what the citizens of Serbia paid for, because you owed us. You owe us, you can laugh all you want, and that was your policy. Six billion euros before the elections, you put Serbia in charge just to win those elections, but that wasn't enough for you either, and it didn't work out for you. We've been listening all day to the insolence of those who have ruined 600 of our public enterprises, 400,000 people are out of work, and now you're giving a lecture to someone. Why didn't the shadow government come forward about this project, too, to hear those experts who are very good? How can you not be ashamed? I want to tell the citizens of Serbia that obviously when the Democratic Party is implementing some projects then everything can, which were mostly in the personal interest, but when an idea that has been current for a hundred years, someone can finally carry out their efforts, work, ability, then it bothers you, and it just shows how big you are and what your party is. We will implement this project, not because of you, not because of the Democratic Party, the Serbian Progressive Party, but because of the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, because they have waited 20 years for something to change in our country and because of your demagogy, nothing has changed except that you have come out of power. It's your policy. What's important is, what does Belgrade get with this project? We heard today and from the Prime Minister indeed all the information that is necessary for the citizens of Serbia to understand how important this is for us in the next period, but I was ashamed when you said it - must be removed from the train station, the bus station must be removed. Even if there is no "Biograda on Water", we must continue to raise our infrastructure, but that is proof that you do not want to do anything in this country and that you have done nothing and that you should be ashamed of. What this project will promote is the removal and modernisation of the railway network, which is the plan since 1972, the accelerated work at the Prokop station, the removal of the bus station, which will certainly relieve our traffic in the city center, I am talking about bus traffic. Then the road network. Speedy tours around Belgrade have been accelerated, the existing tram bridge will expand further. This is what indirectly Belgrade has from this project, and when we talk about the project itself – how can you be against a million squares of living space in Belgrade? How can you be against 750,000 square meters of business and commercial space, just answer how, and everything is transparent and public? How can you be against 62,000 square metres of public content, kindergarten, school, health care facilities? How can you be against 242,000 square metres of green areas that you very often call before the elections, that you will build parks and provide children with better living conditions? How can you do that? I think this project will raise our construction industry and what's important in the economic jargon, one term investment multiplier that's here around two, and when we talk about what it means in the construction industry, if you invest 100 dinars in the construction industry, it comes back to you through GDP over the next three or four years as 200 dinars. Which means that if we have a 3.5 billion-euro investment through GDP in the next period it will return to us in 10 to 15 years, seven billion in GDP alone. When we talk about employment, otherwise it's 20% of our annual GDP, when we talk about employees, people who are going to work on the project to assume that there are no 15,000 employees, let's say that it's 5,000, we're going to cut down, so 5,000 people who are working on this project, someone has to pay them, and the gross salary, we analyzed, on average it's going to be about 800 euros, because there's going to be gross wages, because there's going to be highly educated people, engineers, etc. Imagine 5,000 times 800 euros, which is 40m euros only on salary per year. How much this will raise a small economy in Belgrade, how much it will raise Serbia's small economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, you haven't thought about it at all, and of course you didn't care about it. We heard from the beginning that there are always opponents to good projects and the Prime Minister cited an example of the Eiffel Tower. I would just add that as far as the Eiffel Tower is concerned, and then the law in Paris was valid that it should not be built above seven floors, so someone changed the building of the Eiffel Tower, which is 20 stories high, which says that we always have to move on and change things. France had, to say, French Bojan Pajtic, it has Serbia, but it certainly won't stop modernising our country, it certainly won't stop our country's economic development and it certainly won't stop this project that you're criticising without arguments, without any basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24635	Thank you. The word is Balsa Bozovic, for mentioning the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24636	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, I didn't quite understand what Mr. Jovicic was talking about since he talked about everything, not the agenda point, but for one thing I thanked him for, since he finally admitted that the Democratic Party was returning his loan neatly. Now, that loan was returned by the Democratic Party, as Mr. Jovicic said earlier, but we also borrowed from our property. Among other things, I was one of the ones who gave personal property for that loan. What is essential somewhere, if we are talking about loans, the state, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, has entrusted this country with more than eight billion euros, but it is returned by citizens, not by the government. So what I'm saying is that I am very interested in the offer made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in this home, when it comes to the participation of the Democratic Party in the project "Belgrade on Water". So, if we can agree, if you pull this dot from the agenda, or you don't vote it, then we can protect the right of private property of all those who have some of their immovable properties in that area...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24637	What does that have to do with Alexander Jovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24638	No, we're talking about the agenda point, aren't we?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24639	He can't rephrase the agenda, so we're talking about what we want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24640	I now have to talk about something that is not "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24641	That's funny, trying to be funny, but no one laughed. So, the replica of just what Alexander Jovicic referred to you, don't spread the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24642	Can I finish? Give me back my time. May I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24643	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24644	I'm running out of time because you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24645	I had to interrupt you when you abuse the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24646	So, I'm talking about the agenda point and you won't let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24647	You've got something wrong. The agenda point is one thing, and the replica is another. Thank you very much, I'm sure you'll have a chance to continue, but that's two different things. You have to replicate the speaker, you tried one and the other at the beginning, but then you lost the thread, I apologize, I'm not teaching anyone. I have to delete the list to give the prime minister a word, you spoke to him, did you deliberately, by chance, hear it. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24648	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Mr. Bozovic, I just told you I'm older, I'm a veteran, don't underestimate it, I don't want to go back on this subject, you're not telling the truth again, you've only given it to an annex contract. In the first contract you didn't give anything, you gave zero. Point, I've finished the story of your contracts. You have contracts, I can give them all to you, only with an annex you gave it when you were forced to do it. As for my offer, my offer was honest, open, and I was hoping when you got up that you were going to say that you really wanted to accept it. And that's what I'm being funny about, so I'm gonna say, pull the law and we'll talk or I don't know what it's all about, except it shows I don't want to talk about who decides who doesn't, it's your political party. I want to thank the PUPS MPs, JS, SPS, NS, SDPS, SNS, who applauded my idea, which I had never met before, that you were all part of this project and that everyone who is interested, who wants to come in to control the money, who wants to come in to see how the jobs are done, that they are welcome and that we want him with us. Not to be someone on the side who will criticise, but to work together with us, to make decisions with us and to fight together for better and better-looking Belgrade. Unfortunately for me, it wasn't your intention at all. You tried to get a new two minutes to make fun of the whole idea and everything I said. I don't have a problem with that. The citizens are there to evaluate and assess both our will and your will and our work and your work, and as far as I'm concerned, and when you see that power cannot be destroyed, as you thought it would be, and that it does not work, you are always welcome, no one will consider you a party of power, to come with professional people, with really professional people, say Branislav Jovina, that man who most strongly criticised you in the previous period, to come with him or with anyone else to join us, because I am sure that much, much we can do together, but it takes mutual respect, respect and, to the very least, professional relationship. I can't even say in this high house that he called them exactly in his statement one high-ranking official of your party, who just announced that the National Assembly looks like a concentration camp. It is for me and, I would say, for the National Assembly and for all MPs in the National Assembly, it is a terrible insult, but unfortunately it speaks of a relationship that exists towards parliament and Serbian institutions, and it speaks of you who are rarely lectured on democratic rights and democratic rules in our society. I am proud of the fact that this is our highest home, that we always feel good here and that here we always have to answer the questions and remarks of the MPs, so we will do so in the future. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I have a word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24649	No, you can't get the word, nothing offensive was said. Article 104. I apologize, but there are 250 MPs here. You can't ask for more rights than others. What do you think we have here now is just dialogue between you and... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I am an authorised representative. What difference does it make? Learn the Rules of Procedure, please. What does that mean-- I'm authorized in this first part? Please, sit down. Please be nice. I thought you'd make an effort to see which MP, I'm appalled, called this Parliament a concentration camp? I thought you wanted us to react to that. Please make an effort, if it's from your parliamentary group, to talk about it, whether someone says it in the O.R. or says it on the street. I'm appalled. Officer, I apologize. Please talk about it, but not now, now we're going to talk about the agenda point. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24650	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I believe you've injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure, which in its third position gives the President of the National Assembly the right to decide on the right of MPs to be read, but I also remind you of article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges you to conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not the way you think. Mr. Vukic here gets a chance to replicate himself when he has to, because it happened just about ten minutes ago, and now that someone starts their presentation with "Mr. Bozovic", so directly speaking to the MP who was authorized on behalf of the DS Group to explain our views on the bill, then insults the party and the parliamentary group that this MP belongs to and which the MP represents, you decide that he does not have the right to reply. So you can't feel free to decide whether someone has the right to reply or not, but you decide on it on the basis of Article 27, which obliges you to respect the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, although we are used to each round of replicas, as popularly called in the Assembly, ending just when someone, either from the government or from the ruling coalition, ends their presentation, please don't apply it now. If we're going to talk about who's being appalled, there's still a lot more, a lot of things to be disgusted about, so at the time, you weren't really disgusted, and there were a lot of things in this council, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24651	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 27 is exactly what I've been doing this morning since 10:00, so far. As always with the same MPs, I have a problem with holding a session that they cannot understand that the Rules of Procedure applies to everyone, both the chairman and all the other MPs. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the scene: that's the problem. ) Don’t throw it at me, it’s not nice, it’s not new, it’s not cultural. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: What is not all the New Sad president? ) On the other hand, Article 104, you quoted it correctly as saying that I have the right to assess whether anyone has the right to reply, and I am using my right to which you have determined in 2011 with changes in 2012, until there has been a change here in parliament. So, the Rules of Procedure that you brought in, which was responsible for the moment you acted as the ruling majority, applies now, except that the citizens of Serbia have now voted drastically differently. When something else happens, you will, of course, change the Rules of Procedure with your experience and I will be very happy to participate in this task force. If you like, we'll vote on Article 27 and Article 104? No, I don't. I thank you. Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, please, has been waiting for an hour and a half and I apologize to her for saying that the last speaker is Ambassador Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24652	Thank you. The Honorable President, Mr. Prime Minister of Serbia, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People and Council, we are gathered today in such a large number, not because we do what politicians love to do most, which is to lay stone foundations and cut red ribbons of new buildings. Today we are talking about a specific project, which is based here in the bill of law written black on white. So we share joint responsibility, members of the ruling coalition, it is not a promise made to the media, but in the highest representative home – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens will have the right to ask us, not for 10 or 15 years, but very soon, when some elections are -- and what you did with this project that we are talking about today. The fact is that we MEPs, even those who were in the one-party system, before the introduction of the multi-party system, spoke of a project called different names, and today we call it "Belgrade on Water". That's not a new name. I want to say that the SPS MPs will support this bill, not because we are members, partners, coalition partners of this ruling majority, but because we have dreamed together of something that appears on the horizon and what we believe is real and that it is possible. In preparation for the debate in the Assembly, I had the honour of obtaining from my party colleague, a respected engineer, Milutin Mrkonjic, one paper from 2004, where there is a list, where there is a map, where there are also plans, capital investment projects for Belgrade. I want to testify that we've given similar thought. Under point three is listed one of the projects "Belgrade on Sava". This mentions what we are talking about today, the completion of the construction of a Belgrade-Centar-Prokop railway station, about a Belgrade railway node, about the transfer of an existing railway station from about 90 hectares to the city centre, which will attract foreign investments of several billion euros, by building a new Manhattan in Belgrade. So if some people are laughing at us today who are in opposition because we're talking about something that we claim we're capable of doing, and that's something real, we have to remind ourselves without false ridicule and false mockery that we've all thought the same way. Since I belong to the left-wing party, I can remember the time of youth labour when Belgrade is and when it is the government, not only mention Branko Pesic, but also some mayors who were before him in power with different teams when they made a big leap off this coast towards Savi. How fantastic and incredible it sounded that the pumps would extract wet ground, namely that the sand would be drawn from the river and thrown onto the swamp floor and that today it would be possible for the New Belgrade as we have. I was particularly impressed that, not only the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, but also some other MPs in their presentations stressed that this project is not beginning from us. This project begins from a long time ago, out of all those who wanted Serbia well, not just because they were in power. I would remind you that we are citizens of Serbia, not to say only Serbs tend to celebrate our defeats. Here, today is April 7th, I will remind you that yesterday we marked the bombing of Serbia and the fact that Serbia's capital was destroyed and resurrected again, restored in the last centuries. I would also like to stress that I remind myself of another April 6th, 1867, when Knez Mihailo Obrenovic received the keys of the City of Belgrade and therefore in an amannet that in a new, different way he is considering the fate of his people. I would also remind that the development of Belgrade today in the 21st century was founded much earlier. So these aren't just perspectives there are limitations. The fact is that the banks of the Sava and Danube rivers are surrounded by railway lines, and that is the great obstacle and therefore it is necessary to move these railways. I would like to remind you that we, the 1878 Berlin Congress, have been obliged by Serbia to build the Belgrade-Nish road and thus free the passage from Vranj, i.e. make it possible for the railway connection to Thessaloniki, i.e. from Piroth to Carigrand. In his speech today, the prime minister reminded of the fact that in 1884, the first train from Belgrade to Nis left if I wasn't wrong in August, and in September, a train left from Zemun to Belgrade on the bridge from Austria at the time. I mean, these rail tracks sometimes limit us in the way that walls still exist, the Balkan walls in our heads that prevent us from thinking in a modernist and reformist way. Still, we wanted to admit it or not, there is this imaginary border that was real between the Ottoman Empire, between Turkey and Austria. Indeed we still share, not only the natives of Belgrade and those who have come, who have come, but are indeed still in our heads of this ancient historical division. I think by this project we are tearing down a concept that Belgrade has driven to some sort of fate to be a fortress, to be a border city that will be attacked or that will be on the defender of Europe from Osmanli, or that will simply be a part of it, let's say when the crusaders set out to release Jerusalem. I want to highlight what is currently being chosen, and I would say to the happy circumstances, that we are offered as a partner, for an investor, a company from the Arab world, to destroy those prejudices that still exist. Unfortunately, I even see it among architects, among the Academy of Architects who insist that only domestic architects are asked and that there is respect for something that existed as a paper project 50 or 70 years ago that said that it could not be built in the space of the Sava amphitheater and that there should only be green surfaces that could not be skyscrapers. I remind you that this Serbia, this Belgrade, was not only built by citizens of Serbia. Here, in this building there are traces of a Russian architect in a small hall, you remember if you looked at the fresco well, there's a Christian church in the left corner with a cross, and there's a mosque in the right corner. So we are really in advantage because we have these layers of cultural heritage, the urban heritage of two different worlds but that are now connected in times of globalism. I am really surprised at the opposition that opposes this law because it speaks of special expropriation procedures and as the prime minister has pointed out, there will also be a preserved and principle of rule of law and legality and private property, because there will be compensation at market value. Even if they had passed laws on special expropriation procedures when they were in the majority of those who had decided on a major investment project, perhaps overpaid, bridge on Ada, I must remind that a highly respected international organisation that oversees respect for human rights, which is Amnest International, and today there is a report in its archives today, the way the city authorities carried out the migration or expropriation of Roma settlements. I remind you of a report from 9 August 2011 that says it was destroyed within three hours by 200 homes of members of Roma nationality, that 178 families were displaced both by buses and trucks and bulldozers. Even if we don't read those reports, here is my esteemed colleague Srdjan Dragojevic, who recorded those scenes in his film "Parada". So let's not forget slowly, or let's not think it all starts with us. Nothing starts with us, we are limited, our political time is limited to four years and nothing will end with us. That's good. In this way, we also support the call made by the prime minister, that all people who want Serbia to develop faster, join this project. I would remind the same if we were not aware how much we are changing the picture of Serbia through this project. Here, I will remind myself that we are in the process of European integration under constant supervision and European politicians and European institutions. To me, it may be as much as you, it bothers me when Angela Merkel, the Chancellor of Germany, tells me that if the Balkan countries are making progress, that they are making it a snail step. So we do not have to and must not suffer from the complex of lightly promised speed, that is something that some former politicians have said, but we must be determined to carry out with political will and courage some realistic projects, especially when they support concrete money. Today, today we're talking about three concrete things here. We're talking about the spatial plan of a specific purpose area, it's limited to 177 ha, we're talking about expropriation procedures and we're talking about a building permit being issued. Here, colleagues quoted the mayor's projection, Mr. Malogi, which pointed to investment multipliers, that for each invested two dinars would allow GDP to grow. I am looking here at my esteemed colleagues, Minister Joksimovic and some colleagues from the SNS, some colleagues from the opposition that we had the opportunity to participate in a conference that took place on a ship that started from Paso from Germany, across Linco in Austria, Vienna, Slovakia, via Bratislava in Budapest, across Ilok to Belgrade, and there we could really watch the shores of different cities and different rivers. I appeal that we are not closing Belgrade and Belgrade's tourist offer only in the walls of the Kalemegdan fortress, that it is really important for Belgrade to land on the water. It's having one civilized fact. So we're going to make this project a better quality of life. I, reading about Belgrade, found testimonies of what pictures looked like in front of World War I, how many people on this coast were afraid of these new Belgrade, namely the Sremese, Austria coast, when both old and young were peeking through some of the tarabs between today's hotels and then the Mosca or the Balkans. So let's not look at that other coast through our tarabs, let's overcome what our President Dacic said, this Palanic spirit in Serbia, because the Palanic spirit in Serbia always tells us that there is no space, nor can there be any change. Of course there can be changes. Even if we don't succeed in this investment venture, it'll be good to turn these 177 acres into something that will be the pride of this city, not the mockery, which won't be dead capital. We're rich in dead capital. There's lots of land, there's lots of waste, there's lots of dumps, there's garbage, there's lots of soil. People are moving more and more to the city, but let's not share Serbia in the country and the city, but let's give Serbia a chance to truly become a metropolis in the 21st century Belgrade. It doesn't have to be Manhattan, it doesn't have to be Balkan New York, but let it be Belgrade that really has development potentials. To conclude, here will speak my distinguished fellow Members of the Socialist Party, and also from other parties, who are experts in their fields and I think we can all contribute to the realization of this project, we just have to dare and make that decision. This group will vote for it, but we are also the ones who are then taking responsibility for these future cornerstones and those ribbons that we are going to cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24653	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24654	Often in the heat of political struggle, something is said which may not be thought or which at some point sounds convenient, but because of the public here I have to talk exclusively about facts, only facts and making sure that we safeguard the dignity of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic Bureau of Statistics is not any ad hoc institution that gives false information. The Republic Bureau of Statistics is a reference institution. For those who do not know what that means, this means that their data at European level is not even checked, but are accepted as such, because it is an institution that works according to the appropriate methodology, which is adopted, which works in accordance with the relevant rules and its credibility is not doubted. So when I say the number of employees or unemployed based on the labour force poll, he is who he is. You know, here's basically the thing -- after me, the flood. According to the same statistics, the Republic Bureau of Statistics said in April 2012 that 25.9% were unemployed. According to the same methodology, he says he has 16.8% today. Let us respect what was in force in 2012, because 2015 also applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24655	The word is Mr Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24656	Dear People's MPs, as well as some previous years, here we are listening to the debate in parliament on a major investment that Serbia can make, but it is up to you now, and I am glad that it has a great understanding that this is over. This idea lasted a long time, but we had one problem. We never had the unity of the city and the Republic government. The city has always run out of ideas and two Belgrade mayors who were from the DS have hitched off this investment in the final phase. The job was needed through Prokop and Railway Station, by moving the TriGrranit company from Canada to report in the tender, by bringing in bank guarantees, and it was all over, but the city of Belgrade did not want to give consent and the job failed. And the previous mayor hitched off this investment. They've always hitchhiked through Prokop. They wouldn't allow Prokop's issue to be resolved, they wouldn't allow the tracks around Calemegdan to be removed, they wouldn't allow us to create a bypass for dangerous materials around Belgrade, and that was a sign that we couldn't move out of the station and that we couldn't enter this investment. Serbia has been raving for years to hold a mockery in the city centre, a railway station, one of the tracks, exhausting trains, locomotives, train washing, etc., in the city's narrowest zone. The metropolis can't let that happen. Therefore, I am pleased that, behold, there is now the first time that there is unity between the republican authorities and the city authorities. This project needs to be implemented and I hope it will happen. That's how a concession was stopped with two powers and a concession in Vojvodina. Last year, it was supposed to be a highway to Preljina, we had contracts signed and all finished, but by blocking Mr Pajtic and his associates, by stalling, stretching, by demanding that every point of the contract be disclosed, etc., it was all hitched up and ruined. Don't let one good investment fail again, support this investment. Don't be jealous now that the prime minister suggested it. Whoever suggested that he propose, the investment is good and should be supported and we should all be unique here. There is no room for any debate whether Belgrade should remove the Railway Station, whether Belgrade should clean up that mockery and make one, is now called "Belgrade on Water", sometimes called "Europolis", Mrka knows well, there were various names, but it does not matter what they call it, it is important that Belgrade gets something valuable in the city centre to use both Belgrade and Serbia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24657	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24658	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, distinguished guests, was violated by a member of 106 on two occasions. In fact, Minister Vulin talked about the Institute of Statistics which, for the sake of fact, changed the methodology for calculating employment in Serbia, and this is certainly not the topic of today's session we hold. Minister Velimir Ilic spoke in his presentation about a project related to Vojvodina, where he said Bojan Pajtic insisted that every point of the contract that you offer as the Ministry at the time be published. The fact that it is, but it has nothing to do with this agenda point, it has nothing to do with "Belgrade on Water", it has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24659	Ambassador, what you're saying has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24660	What's wrong, ma'am?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24661	There isn't. You are now replicating the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24662	You don't listen to me, you talk to a colleague all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24663	I can do more stores at the same time. I'm listening perfectly, especially to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24664	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24665	Of course not, but I'd like to ask you about article 116, please, most kindly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24666	So, article 106 says – the speaker can talk about the agenda point. Here you go again, Madam Chairman. Please respect me while I speak to you to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24667	Something quieter today, I don't understand you, don't get angry, 106th or 116th?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24668	Article 106. Read it out loud.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24669	I will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24670	Article 1 - The speaker can talk about the agenda point. Minister Vulin told us about the Institute of Statistics, about the methodology that has been changed, and Minister Ilic was talking about negotiating with the government of Vojvodina, which has nothing to do with "Belgrade on Water" because "Belgrade on Water" cannot be in Vojvodina. So, I'm asking you to warn them, because we entered the tenth session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24671	Thank you very much, indeed. I'm aware we've been working for ten hours, but we'd be working a lot shorter if it wasn't for these abuses of the Rules of Procedure, actually giving a two-minute speech. You almost didn't say anything about article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24672	Read attitude 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24673	If you want, we'll vote. It doesn't make sense, I know, but I'll just hang on. I know you won't be there when you get your turn because you're number 28 and I totally understand. I won't take two minutes from your group because you don't respect your group, not me. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24674	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the truth for as long as my memory doesn't cheat on me today we've had a lot of debates both on the circuit budget and on development projects and on what's been going on since the '80s and on here and it's perfectly natural for Parliament to discuss these issues. It is important that we know why we are today and what we found very impressive, what Minister Vujovic said, why we are in the same place we were after many years. It's very important that we determine. This is because some people have not done their jobs, have not made Belgrade better, have not made it cleaner, have not made there projects that will make people in Belgrade work. I think it's a very important thing. On the other hand, unfortunately, I haven't heard the opposite of ideas and I've been trying for days to listen to everyone who has something to say against the "Belgrade on Water" project and I don't hear what's alternative to it. The alternative is what? Let's leave it like this? Let's leave those 50 toes? Should we ask city cleanliness instead of winch for the garbage to drive there so we can unload it there? What's the alternative? And, after all, if there was an alternative, we had the authorities and the authorities first and foremost DS then and the others who for decades had the opportunity to do so and not do so. They just didn't do anything about it. Absolutely nothing. To compare some things, and this government didn't even rob this country, this government didn't do any thieving or looting privatisation, it was done by governments before it. I just want to tell you a few things that are important for Belgrade, so that we don't forget, which led to Belgrade having a budget deficit of 20% before the arrival of Sinisha Malia as mayor, which was unrecorded in Belgrade's history, which was a budget deficit under DS administration. I was also a committee member of the 2006 City Assembly. In 2006, the City of Belgrade took 405m euros in credit to build a bridge on Ada. In 2006 alone, from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 405m euros with each document that exists has been borrowed from the loan that we all return from Belgrade. Credit. It is difficult to determine whether more than 800m euros, but it is a project paid by all Belgraders for one bridge. Great, we need bridges so you don't think we have something against bridges. We need bridges, bridges are a wonderful thing, but it's a loan we took for one bridge. We're building a new city here. The prime minister has proposed an investment paid by someone else in which someone else invests their money. We invest a third or only a quarter of what we invest in building a single bridge, and we get a new residential business center, we get a job generation, we get a future for many young people who will work in this city. However, why couldn't we do this among other things from our own resources, and why in 2012 when we came to power we found a country that was almost bankrupt? Why we're doing so badly in Belgrade. I want those people who don't know it, and because of those people who may not remember it, I want to tell them, we've had big affairs in City Cleanliness where people are suspected of stealing 230 million dinars in this company alone. We have a reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar or the former Bulevar of the Revolution, forgotten by people with damages of 5.3m euros because it was then almost 630m dinars. Only the damage of 5.3m euros on one street in one city. As for the plumbing, I don't have to tell you too much, I'm going to remind you of the affairs we've had with the procurement of specialized vehicles where they've tripled the amount, and there's only one factory in the world that makes these spare parts, and it's won in the tender not this factory, but it's got a subcontractor with a triple price even though it's competing with home "Firesprem" three times lower and it's rejected because there's no certificate for spare parts made from the same factory. That's why we don't have a new one. Two hundred and eight million dinars on robberies on Belgrade Airport brought in people with grounds of doubt, of course, but one monstrous case I think has shaken every normal man, it happened in New Vienna. Robbery at the Castle of Hetherland, so-called 113m dinars almost a million euros at the construction of a large centre. I'm just trying to explain, maybe some MPs don't understand, trying to explain why Serbia came into this situation and why some others didn't want to build this and what they were actually doing, where their time was going and our money was going. There is a suspicion that for the stolen money from the facility it is intended for the purpose of housing the stay of children distracted in the development of New Vienna and is being done by the president of the municipality of Novi Becje then Milivo Vrebalov, a member of the DS presidency. That's how homely and well-managed was. And I'll read you one thing and I'm sorry it won't take more than a minute, and unfortunately I could read the watch, unfortunately, and you'll see why. The company ‘Dunav Grupa Agregati’ a.d., ‘Agrohem’ doo, ‘Jugoalat’ a.d., ‘Jugodent’ a.d., SMV Motins, food and tourism company ‘Centroslavija’, Holding ‘Centroslavija’ for retail and large trade, ‘Centroslavija transport’, ‘Petar Drapsin’, ‘Milan Vidak’, ‘Pumproduk’, ‘Garant Transport d.o.o.o’, ‘Neimar’, ‘Secretary future’, ‘Mlin future’, ‘Interservation’, ‘Agrovojdovina’, ‘Novkabel’, ‘Pobeda Holding’, ‘Eurobazar’, ATP Pioniršped, ‘Nootrans’, ‘Noobus’, ‘Fidip standard’, ‘Findip standard, ‘Stordip standard’, ‘Stvardarddarddarddard, ‘Starddarddarddarddardd’, ‘Stardd’, ‘Fandd’ of livestock’ of livestock food and so. These are companies, companies and companies that went into bankruptcy and liquidation during that period. In these companies was the state or private, some workers worked. They were working on some people and hoping for a future. This future is such a non-domestic policy and what I told you about the City of Belgrade and what we didn't unfortunately have all of these projects that we had to have done in the city of Belgrade and the money that had to go into our plumbing and sewers and asphalting went into somebody's pockets. So the domestic under quotes was conducted politics in both Serbia and Belgrade, that we managed to pay people their salaries and pensions on a daily basis, and we paid every month without a day of delay. This "Belgrade on Water" project is something that seems to me to be so attractive for people, not only in Belgrade but throughout Serbia, that it will make Belgrade a whole new centre in this part of Europe. I know a lot of people have a problem with that, not just in our country, but you'll see, I hope by the end of this year, when the first objects start to generate new jobs, but how much will it do to make us prouder both of this government and of the people who have proposed this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24675	The word is made by President Alexander Vukic. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: First Rules of Procedure. No, you're not Alexander Wolf. Please, sit down. You'll get your word. Please, President Vukic has answered. Please, let me run the session and sit down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24676	I'll take a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24677	On the noise, yelling, I really don't react anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24678	So, I would like, since all the representatives of the parliamentary groups have come forward, I would just like to thank everyone for the debate, I would say to a very successful, fruitful one, and we have learned something, and we will see that some of the things we have heard, to see them together in the future, to see what it is that we could possibly correct. We are open to it, therefore, and regardless of the anger and objections, I only pray you when this is over, because the successes and results are eternal and the actions that remain are eternal, not congregational and daily political debates. Consider my offer, therefore, which has been deliberately presented before you and which is that all of you who want to participate in the implementation of the “Belgrade on Water”, all of you who want to participate in the control of money spending, in any way, are ready to meet you and participate in this project together. I think that today, in an argumentous and serious debate, we have shown how important this project is, but how important everything that we've talked about, what you've been saying is that it takes billions. They are, not as many billions as you've talked about, much smaller amounts, but we need a lot of money to finish more important infrastructure facilities in Serbia. Last night we had a road break at Proseko, so on the way Nis – Piroth, Nis – Bela Palanka – Piroth. We have problems in Grdelica, we have problems on the road of eight kilometers, they are left and the "yellow house", we will see that either with Azerbaijani or with our companies immediately, and after visiting Mr Aliev, 13 or 14. I will know that I will give you the correct answer on this issue, because it seemed to me now that they could do it quickly and most accurately to end it after the absence of results in the work of a Greek firm. I think that, of course, we're going to go to the National Assembly and tell them what conditions we're going into the whole process and the whole project. We also have before us, of course, the move of the railway station to Prokop, the move of the Bus station to New Belgrade, the construction of the Belgrade-Bipest track, which should be an additional development project and that we attract all traffic from Central Europe, first of all, to our Belgrade. Of course, this part of "Beograda on Water" is extremely important for Belgrade as well as Belgrade's city of Brej destination and Belgrade, as primarily a tourist, catering destination, as a banking centre. I brought you here three relatively new examples that were made and made in London, about a new business center.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24679	Dear President, I wanted to report in accordance with Article 103, when the interior minister spoke, because in my opinion he injured a 106th member who said - the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The Home Secretary didn't speak at all about the agenda. He read all kinds of data here from police investigations that almost three years later, they didn't get their epilogue in court. He's been repeating the story we've been listening to for three years without getting a single epilogue in court, and I think our obligation as a legislative body is, and here we are here today, to create conditions for our judiciary to be independent and to be more effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24680	Would you like to talk about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24681	I'm explaining what the Minister's injury was when he spoke. If the Minister of the Interior or the Prime Minister or any other minister has any desire to come here and tell us all sorts of things, I remind you all...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24682	Please don't rephrase, you're using the Rules of Procedure again. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure I did?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24683	Please leave me alone so I can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure in two minutes and don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24684	Whatever you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24685	Thank you. I ask you, there is an institution in this hateful Rules of Procedure that says – on the last Thursday of the month the prime minister and the government come and answer the questions of MPs. That hasn't happened in this parliament since July 2014. If they have such a desire to talk about their successes, I invite them to come on April 30 and answer the questions we have to ask them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24686	Thank you, MP, this really doesn't make sense. You know, I lasted about ten hours not to impose a sentence, and now I don't know how much longer. It really doesn't make sense what you're doing to your colleagues not to me, the other MPs who would say fifty-something about the law we have today, no matter what they may not be seen in 23 hours, but don't abuse this term now to report whatever you want to talk about. Do you want us to vote on this, even though you're not interested in it at all, you're talking to other MPs, but my God, we're going into a direct transmission and the cameras are catching up and watching each other's behavior?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24687	Yes, I do. I've listened to you as carefully as ever, Your Honor. I agree, that's right, it's lucky that it's so everyone can watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24688	Don't ruin Parliament's dignity. Marko Djurisic throws and speaks out loud with me, which is the same thing we have in Parliament's practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24689	I don't control microphones, you control respected presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24690	I thank Ambassador Djurisic for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24691	As always, the Honorable President. I said that I wanted parliament to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, that the speaker could only speak of the agenda item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24692	I thank you, he refers to all the MPs, but since we can't punish the MPs, we can only punish the president...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24693	Both ministers and the prime minister and everyone who participates in the debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24694	Ambassador?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24695	I don't know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24696	Be kind and consider whether we are here in Parliament alone for ourselves or for the people who voted for us?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24697	I don't turn off or turn on the microphone, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24698	The word is Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24699	I am advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, Article 107(1). I respect your wish that this session with a very important topic is important for all of Serbia because we have almost an entire cabinet of Mr. Alexander Vukic and more ministers here than we have MPs who are so against this topic. What's broken dignity, that's when false is told. The truth with which Mr. Djurisic, or the truth with which Mr. Djurisic somehow has a skillful manipulation and does not use it very often at least when it comes to congregation statistics. In the government of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, in the government so warmly supported by the previous speaker, the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic in the National Assembly to answer MPs' questions was only seven times in four years. She didn't come here once in 2008. In 2009, only three times, so that in 2010 and 2012, it never once again came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Unlike this statistic, the people, or the government run by the SNS, were courageously answering all questions in two years from the change in 2012 to the day of today because there is nothing to be ashamed of but prides themselves on what has been done, as we are proud to vote in two days on the "Belgrade on Water" Lex specialise 11 times, in two years twice as much as you have done and respected parliament in four years. Therefore, these data are very accurate, don't manipulate them, because these data speak more about you than they say about the respect of parliament by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24700	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on Article 107's injury? (Zoran Babic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24701	I thank the president. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, respected councilmen from the Assembly of Belgrade, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing today for the tenth hour a Lex specialise for "Belgrade on Water" to create a legal framework and conditions for the realization of this largest architectural and construction project. Regardless of the differences we have shown and the vast majority of the MPs who are in favour of the implementation of this project, I am sure that in this high house we will all agree that we need large investments and large projects for the economic recovery of the country. For me, this project is a big step. It took great courage and determination that this government showed, and it represents for me the achievement of the great dream that the famous Belgraders have set as their goal. It is the right for each of us to make an argument for and to criticise, but as several of my colleagues have pointed out by the respected Minister Stefanovic, I have not heard so far the alternative of those who criticise, what they are actually offering as an alternative. When we talk about this project, it is crucial that we resolve two things – what do we lose with it and what do we get? Although I'm not from this profession, I'm going to state one fact. Those who say we are losing in Belgrade's historic ambience, state as an argument that this project will not make the temple of St. Sava visible, will not be seen "Belgrade", the Church of St. Mark. I just want to remind you of one fact. When this High House was built in 1936, architectural solutions were that it had a fantastic view of the Church of St. Mark. Meanwhile, the post office was raised and I don't see what's bothering her, but rather, this part of Belgrade along with the old court, with the post office, with the Church of St. Mark, with this beautiful building really represents something, the most beautiful buildings we have in Belgrade. Of course, I've been overcome by the arguments we're getting from this project, and I think we're getting a lot. Many of my colleagues have led so far to remove ship's wrecks that, I remind, exist in the Sava River between 70 and 100 years old. It was said that 50 was removed and that there were 10 left. This project regulates the unsettled area around the train station, cleans up the entire coast, places the railway station “Prokop” and bus station. There's a great chance of recovering our construction operation and what's most important to me, I think this project gives our children a great chance of having a future. I saw it in the eyes of my children when I took them to see the project model in our most beautiful building we now have along with the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Belgrade Co-operation. In my opinion, for the realisation of this project, transparency is very important, it is very important that we, the MPs who control the executive power, and the government itself, not being transparent, throw a stain on such an important project. As I prepare for this debate today, in the spatial plan of the area of the necessary purpose, I have seen these positive examples of transparency, which should remain and continue. For example, that costs are 400m euros for land equipment. Of these 400m euros, Serbia should pay, i.e. the city of Belgrade 125m for the construction of hot water, gas and energy plants, but also for 392m for railway facilities. Given that our revenues on the basis of fees and participations that the investor would pay for the land received are about 470m euros, I think that, when the figure is taken into account with these 510m euros, the cost of this project is already seen. Once again, I would like to stress that the NS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24702	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24703	We heard a lot today at today's session. At first, there was reading an essay, where various things were related to Galileo, to Eiffel, to Prometheus, to examples from the communist Yugoslavia, calling for decades-long court practice of Republika Srpska. We've heard that dreams are the most important thing, that dreams that one dreams can change reality in one country. We heard about the most beautiful building in Belgrade, the building of the Geo-Institute or the Belgrade Co-operation, we just didn't hear why the donation agreement for the building was a secret and what we committed to in the contract. We have heard that Belgrade has been holding back the removal of a railway station, which is impossible because it is not the city's business, but rather the business of the state, that it was happening in an earlier period. We've heard a lot of things that have nothing to do with the truth. We also heard that the price of living space was raised in New Belgrade when the Belgrade arena was created, which is also pointless. Arena, by the way, has been doing business with losses since it was built, and there's a whole other reason why apartments there are expensive, which are not so expensive, because the market has failed. We also heard a statement from the prime minister who said that we were never well in Serbia, and it says in a stenogram. If it had never been good, which I might agree with, but also the other part of that statement that reads, it will never be good. I don't know if it's a promise or a threat, but in any case it's something that the Serbian prime minister must never tell his citizens, even if it was a mistake. Today, there is a law on the agenda with a long title that has already been named Lex Specialis on "Belgrade on Water". Serbian citizens in their modern history know exactly when someone offers them a lex special, that the law is passed or to conceal some theft or to prepare some theft or to end some theft. We had an example with a lex special, back in 1997, last century. It was a law that was supposed to cover up the election theft that happened at the time in the local elections. We had a lex specialization that was mentioned a few minutes ago and several times today that it is, and also one theft, I don't know why it wasn't investigated, I don't know why those who are guilty of it weren't convicted, and this is certainly going to be one big scam, if nothing worse. I agree with those who say it's done a lot by cleaning up the Sava amphitheater, and that's good, and I think that's the maximum possibility of this government. If we go deeper into the whole project, we have that it is anti-constitutional, that this law is anti-constitutional, that the principle of respect for private property is severely disrupted for no apparent reason. It cannot be a public interest, even though all the dreams we've heard about are realized. It's just that it's something contrary to the Constitution and against other laws, which I don't want to talk about, but people whose profession told them a lot about it. I haven't heard a single architect, a builder, an urbanist who said that it's technically feasible to see on this model that is what it is, it's hard to understand what it wants. From what you can see, from what we're saying, these millions of squares are inconclusive for a lot of reasons, mostly for parking, for all traffic, for the rest of the infrastructure, etc. Finally, the economics part is a complete failure. A complete failure and it would be very nice to have a Lex special, because it's a special law, a special law, we see who's going to build it, who's that firm that's being negotiated, how many meters of square, how much it's going to cost, what it's going to be, whether it's from some money or some money that already exists, or who's going to need a loan back, what's collateral for that loan. That's supposed to be in the Lex special. If there's a big chance for our construction industry, then let's write it down, it's a commitment that she's doing this whole project. Finally, you insulted, Prime Minister, the Serb people five, ten times today, saying he's lazy, afraid of electricity, railways, progress, anything modern. That's what the man who said in 2002 that the Berlin Wall fell in 1990.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24704	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24705	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Mrs Filipovski, I believe that together with all those who wish Belgrade's progress we will be able to overcome all these, I would not say, the aspirations of certain opponents, but I would say the impotence of those who cannot choose another solution, but to oppose something at all costs, because they do not have their own solutions. You know, it makes no sense for me to tell someone that Galileo and Prometheus are not the same or the same, but we'd go back to Socrates again, so I'd explain the role of the Athens Court, and the Law School is still in the same place in Belgrade. It hasn't changed. What are you gonna do? As for the facts at the expense of the Republika Srpska and the decades-long court practices in Republika Srpska, the Constitutional Court of Republika Srpska, I did not realize that joke. We love Republika Srpska. Maybe you don't like it. We respect her. Maybe you don't respect her. I couldn't understand that kind of joke and jumping into Republika Srpska's account. You say, "What we have committed ourselves to, there is no treaty." Here's the donation contract. Here's that donation contract you don't have. I'm sorry we don't have to hand it to you, but I don't have any problem being served. You're saying I said it would never be good. It's not true, sir, it's not true, because I said it was in our mentality and that when you ask the Serbs, they were never well. They weren't well at the time of the Karajords. It wasn't good at the time of Milosh, when you read history books. It wasn't good at Michael's time. It wasn't good at the time of Milan, Alexander, Peter. It wasn't good in King Alexander's day. It was not good either at the time of Milan Stojadinovic and his government. It wasn't good during World War II or Tito's time. We were never well in Milosevic, nor in your time. We'll never be, in terms of our mentality, and not that it really won't be, and that's what every man in this room understood. That's what every man in this Serbia understood. You understood, too, Mr. Zivkovic, you just didn't want to understand and you understood what I said. You say – the most important question from your entire presentation is that the most important question – the question of parking. Don't worry, we'll solve the issue of parking both by underground and underground garages, and I think that's the least of the problems that "Belgrade on the water" will face. As for fraud, robbery, I repeat myself once again, and I have tried and apologized if, at some point, I overstepped the measure of good taste, and I don't think I've been polite all along, I'm afraid that someone is always leaving what's in his head and not what's really going on. We are not deceived or robbed in mind, you are welcome to Mr. Zivkovic, they are welcome and everyone else who wants to participate with us, to look at it and to work with us on this matter. In doing so, we will never be divided into Belgrade and not Belgrade citizens, these from here and from there, whether someone from Republika Srpska or somewhere else, for us all Serbian citizens, if you will and the people of Republika Srpska can always control this project, can always say what they think and can do together in his, I would say the progress and improvement of Serbia to participate. As for Serbia's progress in economic terms, I am absolutely sure that Serbia is on a good path, I say – tomorrow it is important for us to hear first grades after the first quarter of IMF chief Kim de Hang, because of course he will be speaking in the field with, same to his bosses from Washington, to see whether we have achieved some successes or not, whether we are on a good path or not, what else we need to change, but I think that once we fully restore production in Western Tamnava, production of electricity and solve the issue of chemical complexes, I repeat, that Serbia will be on and on how well it will be. This investment venture will be very important for us to increase GDP, for those capital investments we talked about, which we are not able to raise enough money from either country. It's true, if you were to criticize us on this issue, and we don't have enough projects, if you didn't want enough people who knew, or enough people who had the will to press it every day. We have a slightly better result in March than in February and January, but all other results are very good, especially in terms of preserving or reducing the fiscal deficit. I'm sure you and all the other MPs here will say hello. So, we're not committed to anything in this, there's nothing very secretive about it, and there's going to be a problem in carrying things out, so I'm sure they will. We don't build a park, and even when we've built parks so far, we've always had trouble implementing it. We are not in a position to end the Boulevard of the Revolution or the Boulevard of King Alexander, or the Duke of Stepe, and whatever street you want, I'm not sure this is going to go away without a problem, but this is a great opportunity, a great opportunity that Serbia and Belgrade, I'm absolutely sure they can't miss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24706	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has the interior minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Mr. Zivkovic, I understand that you have no will to learn the Rules of Procedure. First, he has the word Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic at your presentation, and then I will consider whether you have the conditions for replication. I thank Mr. Zivkovic for his understanding. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24707	Let me just say, I didn't ask for a replica, I called...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24708	Yes, but you called before Mr. Zivkovic, after his exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24709	I know, Mr. Zivkovic must know a lot about stealing, and I'm sure of it. I don't know why some MPs resent, maybe misread my words, but we talked about loans and repaying loans. This is one part of Mr. Zivkovic, in addition to that loan that the Democratic Party did not repay, it was the Democratic Party on whose list was Mr. Zivkovic, here's the government, unfortunately, had the obligation to repay many billion euros in loans owed by the previous Democratic Party government and those loans that were taken at an interest rate of 8.5 per cent and more, and these are terrible loans for the return of both of us and this year we are returning a huge tranche of those loans, and I think only the prime minister and finance minister know that everything that must be done by our commitments. But unfortunately, I understood, I listened carefully to what Mr. Zivkovic said. He said today that he had come to tell us two things that it was hard to understand the model "Berograda on the water" and that he thought there was nothing more to be built on. It's the key messages and I really don't understand those messages very well. I can't understand that someone doesn't want to look forward to the good thing that's going on in Serbia. The thing that's being built, a new city, that's building some new jobs for some young people who have to work here and all those who, and today I've heard from people who know more about it than I do, and about the construction industry and everything else, who's going to generate new jobs around Serbia, not just here in Belgrade. These are the things to look forward to, however, I, Mr. Chairman, would say the same to Mrs. Gojkovic, as it has been heard several times in public, we have one thing in place, and that is that in the part of the public we have the full Satanization of people who rejoice when something good is happening in Serbia. So total Satanization. If these people look forward to saying that something is good, if they get together to celebrate something that's good for the people, something that's good for creating jobs, if they get together to praise something, people in the public who say the worst things about these people are absolutely the worst. It's a really terrible thing. I fight for the right that people have the right to say both when it's good and when it's bad. As Minister of the Interior, I did not ban a single assembly, people came before parliament on various occasions, passed through, marched, gathered together, some gathered like this, some of them, didn't interfere with anything, didn't violate anything about security, and it was just always estimated that it was better to let people say what they thought and that nobody could mind. But it bothers when these people say something good about the government or the projects that are going on in the country or say something good about things that are really positive for the future of this country. Instead of looking forward to the future, it's something we all have to change, we started or most of those who are trying to release voices like this, they started criticising everything that's good for Serbia. I just don't understand why they're doing it, because this is a good opportunity, the "Belgrade on Water" project is an opportunity to look forward to all those people who will be employed in construction companies, who will be able to see some new tourists who will generate new income for both this city and this country and ultimately, who will leave something for the future, if not us, then all the people who come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24710	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What member? (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Turn on my microphone, so I'll tell you which member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24711	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe the previous speaker has injured Article 107. Rules of Procedure. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to give facts or assessments relating to the private life of others. You know how the interior minister started his presentation, and I don't think as the former president of parliament, it's absolutely appropriate for him to start his discussion that way. He must have had enough knowledge and skill...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24712	Mr. Djurishic, you've given me enough to... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Please allow me to speak.) First, you're wrong when you say the speaker can break the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I did not finish.) ) Mr. Djurishic, please, the Rules of Procedure can only be held by the chairman to break. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: give me two minutes to say, I am not finished.) Look, Mr. Djurishic, you said, "You quoted a member, don't talk to me." You said, you quoted, according to the Rules of Procedure, you were allowed up to two minutes, Mr. Djurisic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: give me two minutes, I say first.) But I don't have to, I figured it out in the first minute. I don't have to give you all the way. Here you go, here you go, up to two minutes. You've got 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24713	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't warn the speaker when he spoke as he spoke, and the interior minister should, as it stands for the right of citizens to come today and support this project, give the same right to those citizens who were here five days ago against this project, not to arrest a "yellow duck" that the president knows nothing about. Why is it that when the citizens who are against them are gathered together, they are driven out of this square and they are legitimate, and the citizens who are gathering... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24714	Mr. Djurishic, you're the one who's out there now. Please, don't let me use the warning measure. You've now told a lie. A few days ago, that performance was ahead of the National Assembly, it was completed, statements were made to journalists and Serbian citizens who were ahead split up after a statement they gave to reporters. No one sent them away, so don't deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Bozovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24715	Thank you, Chairman. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is at stake, Articles 104 and 106. Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Article 104, Mr Stefanovic, on several occasions, falsely accused the Democratic Party and, as an authorised representative of this agenda, did not give me a replica. Article106, today, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the impression is general, talks about everything, only about "Belgrade on Water". For what? Which is why someone's afraid to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24716	Mr Bozovicu, we follow very closely, like the other MPs, this session. Government representatives answer only questions raised by the opposition. That was 90% of the time and don't question the government's right to answer the questions you asked. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I am not. ) Mr Bozovicu, you or someone else who spoke in front of the opposition. So, please, you are aware that you have abused the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. Thank you. In the day of the vote, the assembly will declare itself. The word is Mr. Zivkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24717	Two speakers mentioned me, the Prime Minister and interior minister. The Prime Minister has tried funnyly to avoid answering all the essential questions I've asked, so I'm not satisfied with the answer and I hope to get some better answers. An offer to participate in what we don't know what it is, but it's best that what needs to be determined by a lex special, and we don't know what it is, I don't want, of course. I've never been an accomplice to anything like that, and I'm not gonna be an accomplice now. I think it's much more important that we get answers to the questions that these contracts, which contractors, what obligations, which collaterals, which loans? It's a question of lex specialis, not one general story about how we should... You said 10 or 15% of the total area is private, so why this law? We've been talking all day, we're going to vote, there's going to be so many amendments, etc. Couldn't that have ended in some other way? But it's very interesting that at the beginning of his presentation, which no one could understand, nor could doctors from Megatrenda, the interior minister said I knew much about thefts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24718	Mr. Zivkovic, have respect for this high house, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24719	I quote the minister. The minister said I know a lot about thefts. I think we all heard that. When someone on the street says that, then it can be justified in various ways, and it is, and it is, but when the Home Secretary tells us, then it must follow or strip immunity to me and arrest for some theft, or an apology and resignation of a man who falsely presents himself as a doctor and performs his duties as Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24720	Time. Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24721	I've tried to answer every question you ask. You said no contract, I showed you a contract. You talked about decades of practice making fun of Republika Srpska. You spoke to what we had committed, and I told you nothing. I've already explained to you that no contract has been made, it can't be before the law and it's not 10 to 15%, it's only 5% and it couldn't be different. If the law hadn't been passed, it would have been against the law, and we're acting legally, legitimately, the way we have to. I knew whatever we said, that you wouldn't be satisfied with the answers. After all, it was mine to try to provide you with these answers, so I'll give you answers both about the loan and everything else. Namely, the idea is, and the contract has not yet been made up, that they give 150m euros in cash. So 150m euros of equality. We never got that kind of money. The Quasi Equivalities are another 150 million, which is 300 million to cover the first housing building, and then additionally finance each of the next parts from each construction. Neither, nor those 150 million quasi-equities go under "supervised guarantees", goes under state guarantees. Nothing increases our public debt, and it doesn't cause a problem. So these are the key things I've already talked about twice today. I mean, since it seems to me that some people aren't satisfied that there are no incidents and that we're quietly and all day long responding to every remark, so we'd like to challenge it at all costs, just today, whatever you do, you're not going to make it. I talked for an hour and a half in the opening part only about “Belgrade on the Water” and I didn’t say any other word, not one word at all. I'm only after that... (National MP Janko Veselinovic throws out of town. If you can't throw it away, I'm not throwing it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24722	Please, allow me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24723	How can I tell you, I'm not fascinated by that throw. I've learned worse and more dangerous guys who do that. It's no problem for me to put up with it. So, I would just ask all the MPs, especially the MPs of the majority, to be dignified and to bring all our arguments to an end in a peaceful and decent way, to tell us what it is we think and what it is that we are going to do, whether they are representatives of the former regime, anyone else, whatever, or the province regime, it's totally no matter. So whatever they say, it's ours to respect it, it's ours to offer them cooperation, it's ours to offer them a hand, and whether they accept it or not, that's their thing. But I ask you all to refrain from any insults, difficult words, insults, because I think this plan, that this programme, that this idea, that this vision is worth a lot more than any hard thing and that it will show up in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24724	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has the interior minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24725	Since there are some things out here that don't really match the truth, I just have to say a few facts. First, the prime minister spoke today in his opening exhibition for over an hour and 20 minutes, almost an hour and a half about "Belgrade on Water", with concrete data, project, amount and all that will be the subject of work in the coming years, and in the first phase in the next year and three, four and all the following years. Also, when I spoke and when I spoke today, I used exclusively the words used by my predecessors, the speakers who spoke before me. Then they didn't like those words. They didn't like them because they didn't say them. When they say them, when they say "store one" to the MPs here, then it's democracy, then it's great, and then in the media they explain how great it was and how it was actually nice that they worshiped their colleagues with those expressions. Because "stoko one", it is a democracy sent to other fellow MPs. Now, that's a lesson from democracy. As far as the other objections are concerned, I have not changed one fact about the former and current regime, the province or the parties that make up the regime by a word or by a point in relation to the full truth and to what the competent investigative authorities have established, what the police say, what the prosecution determines. I've always said there are grounds for doubt. I'd like the courts to work faster, but I can't influence it, nor do I think of me meddling in the judiciary, in court decisions. Let the court do its job according to law and free judicial conviction, every judge, and we will try to help Serbian citizens have more money, less corrupt criminals on the streets of Serbia, to deal successfully with both corruption and crime and with all those who think to put each Serbian citizen in their pocket and rob our and the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24726	I thank Dr. Stefanovic. Mr. Zivkovic, on what basis are you looking for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24727	Replica, the Prime Minister mentioned me again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24728	I don't understand. Please repeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24729	Replica, the Prime Minister mentioned me again in his presentation earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24730	No, I'm sure. Mr. Vukic, the Prime Minister spoke in a peaceful tone, asked all MPs not to respond to your provocations, so you have no chance of replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24731	What kind of provocations?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24732	Neither you nor Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, the honored guests, I don't know how I got so much fear in the alleged opposition, especially in those who are Belgrade citizens. What are they afraid of? Why are they afraid of public interest? What was their public interest? I don't think they entered the government because of public interest and public affairs. Instead of the existence of the people, they resolved their entry into the government, and they today think that others are doing the same. And, I understand my fellow farmer, his fear is a professional deformity. His fear is justified. He's the only farmer who knows matches, I speak figuratively. Even when he was young, and according to Nisli's testimony, he met with agriculture, and it's a little harder for him to understand that public interest. He met up with a fake solution to a chicken farmer around Nis. He says it's not true that we've always been worse. Not everyone's been worse, he's always been better. He's afraid of parking. I don't understand what he's afraid of because of the parking lot when I read in his property card it says he bought three garages for three cars in downtown Belgrade, 42 square meters from what I understand. How come some fear that has three garages won't be enough parking space? He was talking about contracts, about secrets, so I'm gonna take out a contract at a time when my colleague is a farmer, and we had the honor of having the Federal Ministry of Interior out of Agriculture. It's a contract, please be patient, this could be like that story with the sad ending, this is a contract to sell the center of Usce. It says here that the federal government announced an advertisement on 30 June 2001 for the sale of an office center building in Usce. The ad is further said that the competition will be conducted by a competition commission within 30 days. However, some documentation shows that the Federal Property Directorate only reached a solution to the Commission's education on 14 August. So if the deadline for admission offers from the competition is 30 days unclear then who was working at the event. Apparently, that commission didn't exist. Most likely the federal government did it alone, and my fellow farmer sat in the federal government. According to the commission's assessment, which was formed 45 days after the competition, the most favourable bidder in the competition for the sale of the TC Usce building was the consortium "MK Grup", remember after we reach the company again, from Belgrade with a price offered of 300m euros, amounting to about 5m euros, but also 4,58 hectares of building land that should not have been sold. The five million buyers could charge for the aluminum that fell off the building after the bombing, so much aluminum, and it was only worth the aluminum on that building, and the building of the building land that I'm not talking about because it was estimated that only the building land was worth about 30m euros and donated. The Federal Minister, once again, is my fellow farmer. He says, based on the decision of the federal government, which my colleague was sitting in, a sales contract was concluded with the company "European Contract" with a company that did not participate in the competition at all. A company founded on 18 December 2001, and the contest was held in June 2001. How can they make a deal with a firm that didn't even participate in the competition? That contract is a secret, not some other contract. Let's move on. The more tragic it will turn out to be that there are two versions of the contract. About the sale and this is one version of the contract model given by the federal public defender, and a completely different version of the contract signed with Petra Matic, signed and seduced by the federal government. Now, these are secret contracts, these are contracts made by the federal government where my fellow farmer sat. We're not very proud of farmers at that time to fight crime at the Federation level, and this was a federal offense, which took care of security and the fight against corruption and the fight against robbery, that our fellow farmer, who, not that he didn't stop the robbery, was clearly proof that the robbery was committed and that only on the construction site of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia lost 30m euros, and instead of 30,000 squares as far as the regulation plan was allowed, the city government led by a famous woodcut allowed 130 thousand square meters to be built in that space. So, 100,000 more than originally determined, which is about 150m to 200m euros. If we assume that the market has not failed, it has already worked and that the square must have cost from 1,500 euros to 2,000 euros. It's those contracts that were secret. These are the contracts my colleague took part in. These are the public interests he spoke of, as well as his colleagues. Public interest is like planting wood for me. If you want to earn, eat sweet fruit, you have to plant a tree first. But among us there are farmers and those who do not plant; and they are well-income and well-income. Well, I'm going to give examples, so I don't want to talk casually, I'm going to take out a regulation on the use of incentive tools to raise multi-annual products so far with the back of the wine vine and hops for 2007. The minister certainly knows, because they provided her with the documentation, that it is credible, where it says so that the beneficiaries of the funds incentivize for the uplifted plantings in the spring of 2007, that they are listed in the register of agricultural holdings and so on. In the spring of 2007, and then we draw out a certificate saying that the winery was not registered as a agricultural land in the spring of 2007 but that the public interest had been executed somewhere but was registered on July 2nd 2007. So in the spring, no grounds, agricultural land is not registered. But let's move on and see how justified my colleague's fear of fraud is because it's some kind of professional deformity. I've been holding a request since August 15th, the Minister of Agriculture also knows this is also a public interest, where they've made private businesses out of public affairs, and here's evidence for that. This is a request of 15.8, on the last day when an application was submitted for a total of 164.135 planted kalems of vines, 15.8, although registered agricultural land is only 2.7, meaning it is not in the spring, and when registered, it was found that the agricultural wine industry only has 1.1 hectares of land in like Krajkovac, Merošin municipality, and agricultural land is registered in India. But he didn't mind that on August 15th, without any legal basis, and these are the papers that I received from the Ministry of Agriculture, applying for parcels, for subsidies on parcels 2817, 2818, 2819, on parcels like Krcedin, for a total of 164.135 kalems of vines, which is reportedly planted and this is the requirement that the accounts follow. And on August 15th, miracles were accompanied by accounts, this is also a public interest, as it is a former prime minister and federal minister who is due to curb crime, not to suppress the state, this account "Ereese", which is also his firm, the account was added to 15.8 and on the date of issue it reads on November 1st 2007. As someone had an account in 15.8, look at the wonders of his firm since 1 November 2007. So, what else do I have to prove that their public interests were private businesses? Let's move on. I also have a contract, a copy of the contract, and the minister can confirm that it is authentic about the lease of agricultural land in state property, where parcels are 2817, 2818, 2819, purchased by a contract on the lease of agricultural land in state property without the right to change the purpose of investment investment, means that all that he regularly rented was not allowed to plant vineyards since 7.11.2007. If it was spring 7.11.2007, then I don't know what abuse and what robbery is. Immediately followed by a solution signed by an assistant, also obtained from a ministry called Dobrivoje Sujun, who lives in India, where 15.11. was assigned to a agricultural land that was not even registered at that time, had no parcels, had nothing. So, quite the opposite of public interest, allocated 41 million 71,579 dinars, which when you divide by 78 dinars, you get 525.000 euros. Well, then, I wasn't lazy, so I was in the vault looking for information to see where the money went. So, behold, 14.071,000 went to a company called "Enpresa", which allegedly produced stakes and wires in Nis, Nislja said there was nothing of it, and that company is "Enpresa" is the property of my fellow farmer. Fourteen million, that was 22.11, and then that splits. IK "Comerc", I said, pay attention to this account, I don't know what basis 13.589.000 and "Agrounia", whose owner is also MK "Comerc", 12.931,000. So, I know why the prosecutor won't do anything, I know he has this evidence, but my God, we can't affect that independent body, the independent judiciary, but someone will run out of mandate and something else -- how our public interests are realized, where these fears come from, here's confirmation. This company of our former prime minister, a fellow farmer, here we farmers had a prime minister who had a co-owner named "Vinemont Venture Vikam Key 146." Tortola, Red Town’ Virgin Islands. These were public interests, secret public contracts, and it took me a long time to get hold of these things. They did not leave us "Belgrade on the water", but they left the people on the water. Now it's a post. Most of our congratulatory people will also fast when they pass the post, all year round, and therefore they should remember that it was the party of the former regime and its partners who made it possible for them. Don't call them the opposition. They still have more than a quarter of Serbia's territory. Today when we talk about the public interest, we should tell our honest and valuable people who are without their guilt impoverished, that they should not be ashamed of their poverty, but that these rich people should be ashamed of their wealth and in the way they have acquired it. It's no shame to be poor, it's a shame to be heartless, boastful, reckless and rudely rich among the poor people. I've discovered some of them today. I can take a lot of things, but when I see hunger in the eyes of people living in the rich, most fertile land, it's unsustainable to look at. Was it their ultimate interest, was it a public interest? Of course, it is necessary to support “Belgrade on Water. ” If he was supported by Prince Milos, the peasant, why shouldn't I support him, no matter what I live inland. We have nothing against "Biograda on Water". Other cities as well as Belgrade should look nice. I believe the project will be realized, that it will raise the construction industry and the construction material industry. To paraphrasise a former politician, when I as a farmer, as a resident of a village in Novi Karlovci, do you fear "Biograda on water", which you Belgradens are afraid of "Biograda on water"? I think it is necessary to amend the law on expropriation and public interest and expropriation to allow the government to determine both for the construction of industrial areas of the interior and for users to be municipalities and even for individual settlements and local communities. Public interest is also a question of agriculture. The issue of agriculture is no longer just a matter of agriculture, not a question of village, rural development, but the survival of the Serbian state, the issue of security and territory demographics. The situation is still such that it is still better to suffer after the village than to suffer in the country. From the village water twice, one leads to the world and the other to the other world. I therefore advocate that in smaller areas and in the countryside, wherever it may declare public interest and the construction of an industrial zone of 5, 10, 20 hectares and apply to the processing industry, to revive the village, to raise the processing, to bring down the monopoly of large processors, to raise GDP, to increase exports, to employ the unemployed, to raise wages and pensions from real sources, to relieve cities and to provide jobs and bread to everyone. I advocate the resuscitation of Serbia, fields, plums, boys and girls, workers and peasants, to distribute the population of this remaining population to the benefit of the village and the benefit of the city. The country we found was tired, decomposed, economical and militaryly powerless, socially unsustainable, morally destroyed, abandoned, unfinished state, state without membership and for present and future generations. Everyone around us has made a state out of nothing, only these former regimes have done anything to the state. I quote, the prime minister said in the exposé, "If each of us brings a pebble every day, we'll have a big hill." You don't expect them to bring a pebble, do you? They should be expected to take away, to suffer a lot. They weren't bringing stones, they were taking piles, trailers, they weren't expecting them, knowing them to bring something, but to take it away. It is to be expected that they will release the stone out of their hands only if they throw you and us at it. It depends on us what we do with this rain of stones that will be thrown at us, roads, bridges, "Belgrade on water" or obstacles like they did. Public interest isn't what they did. They sold and reselled the poor people's fog every day on a large scale. They sold all the fog, imagination, illusions, promises. And as the people were told fairy tales, they built their own castles. I don't blame them so much for selling fog, but for being a customer to them. The present is because of them the dreary, the cigarettes per piece, the chicken on loan, the doll Serbia, the country with the most fertile land, on which poor and hungry people live. It is the result of a party of the former regime, which still rules a quarter of the territory in Vojvodina. Public interest is the future. If we want to go into the future, we need to know that the endowed future doesn't exist, that we have to fight for it. The proverbs they said, I will say to others "Who has the will, there is a way" - Shaw, "He who wants him can" – Misic, "One who wants to, is stronger than the two who have to" - again Misic, "Not the one who falls, but the one who stays lying" - Aristotle, "He who fights can lose, but the one who doesn't fight has already lost" and my "Over the plough to success" and the old folk "There is no bread without distraction". We can't climb to the success of the ladder with our hands in our pockets, they saw the ladders of success as an elevator. One nation does not just make up the present generation, but the last and the future. We inherited this land from our ancestors, but we also borrowed from the descendants, and we have an obligation to give it back to them at least in the same condition as we got it. Why don't we promote her? Now "Belgrade on Water" does not match those who had Belgrade in the fog whose exclusive seller was Dragan Gilas. "Belgrade on Water" does not match those who have released both Serbia and Belgrade down the water. It's time to help Serbia and our people to definitely cool them out of the shade, let them go down the water at last. If in the end we shall say - God help us; we should remember the words of Patriarch Paul – God will help if there is anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24734	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. In order for me to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you just have to tell me because I understand this second part, why don't we have money for big investments now, so we have to look for an investor? That's clear to me, but I didn't understand why the law wouldn't be voted by people who are now, from your presentation I realized that they had experience with towers on water? That's why I let you end up saying, even at some point when you didn't talk about the subject so I could answer the business reports. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24735	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured a 100th member who says - the president of the National Assembly when he chaires the National Assembly session if he wants to participate in the search leaves the presidency of one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. You've been anticipating here that someone is going to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24736	Mr. Djurishich...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24737	Can I explain your injury, please don't interrupt me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24738	Please, you have to say that we could go all the way, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24739	Let me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure for another two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24740	You'll have two minutes, just to say, they've applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24741	Don't explain, you're not at the beginning, explain in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24742	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24743	You wait nicely for someone to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and give an answer. If you want to participate in the discussion, come here among the MPs, sign up for a word and say something. Let me tell you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister's smiles at the presentation of the previous speaker are my best answer to mine and the reason I don't report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because this is the kind of exposure my intervention is unnecessary. The fact that such an exhibit has been given the sympathy of government members is the greatest defeat of this House, and there is no salvation there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24744	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. You did not allow me to say that just during the presentation of Mr. Risticevic, I had reports following the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I had to finally understand Mr. Risticevic's speech so that I could respond to those reports after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's unnecessary for me to answer him at all. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24745	I just want to get Mr. Risticevic in this last part of the effort that we have to do something to answer, which is that I think it's very important that we include all the parts of society, try not to leave anyone out of it, and you're talking about the villagers, you're talking about the workers. I think it's very important that all the layers of society understand their commitment in the same way and behave responsibly. As for the smile, if that is the greatest sin of any member of the government today at today's session, I am very grateful for that. I didn't know it was forbidden. You've yelled here countless times today, yelled without any argument, stood up fifty times to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because of the violation of law, you couldn't talk about the injury of the fact in much more of the time you had at your disposal. A little while ago, I forgot to answer when you asked for our larger presence. I didn't come here more often because of you. I took care of you. I'll come more often in the future, but I'm not sure you'll want to. Being 11 times, which is twice or almost two and a half times as much as the former prime minister spent in the S Assembly for twice as long, is no excuse for us. We will have to come more often to the Assembly, and I would ask you that the Government gets a warning from the National Assembly that we come more often on the last Thursday, that we come more often in full composition to the meetings of the National Assembly. I'm curious that you didn't notice the smiles, the elevated decibels at the moment the most severe insults were spoken or you didn't mind and we're going back to what Nebojsa was talking about. When you say something, it's okay, and when you hear the same thing or even something milder, then it can't go through, and it's scary. The applause you received from the words you spoke much more about you than about the government or the majority in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24746	The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. He spoke directly to my presentation. Replica? The chairman says you have no right, you're not mentioned, I believe him. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24747	President-in-Office, honourable government representatives headed by the prime minister, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, we have already moved far away with today's session and I, as the president said earlier, come also from Novi Sad and trust me that I don't even know where this area is for the construction of Beograd on Water. Privately, I don't care much, I have no objection to Belgrade being beautifully decorated, on the contrary, coming as a tourist to take a look at it, but it bothers me that, not to bother, but I just want to point out something else, i.e. I mean, I don't mind if Belgrade does, but we don't. Here's what I want to talk about, and it's about this particular subject. In fact, simply as an illustration on the Irish Venec, I don't know if you know it, it's on the road between Novi Sad and Ruma, there's a section of the road somewhere from the Irish Venco towards Irig, where last year because of those rains, there's a slope and there's a 50-metre-long program called the "Russian Curve" that took place today on the one side and on the other side of that section is a board that says it's a reconstruction program of the pathways of the Republic of Serbia. In one corner stands the name of the Ministry of Construction and Traffic or as it is now called, and on the other side, "The Ways of Serbia" and the builder was an Irish firm. It's a whole 150 meters. The rest of the time on the Irish wreath is a patch on the patch, now there are new slopes and traffic, heavy traffic, it's best known the citizens of Iriga continue to take place in the middle of the settlement, which is why houses are being dispersed. Several times the trucks flew into people's houses and I'm asking now, are we also going to have this kind of project that is vital not only for the locals of this part and not only for the Frushka Gora National Park, but also for the section towards Republika Srpska and the highway, one day a lex specialis? I will remind you that in 2010, when the Minister of Infrastructure was Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, it was said that the plan was being planned and that it was about to be built so-called. The banana highway, i.e. the share of the road from the Romanian border through Zrenjanin, Novi Sad to Ruma, i.e. to the merger with the highway, where one of the most significant shares would actually be the construction of a tunnel through the Fruska Mountain. Research on tunnel breakthroughs was carried out in the mid-90s, and in the spatial plan of Fruska up, which was brought in about 2005, it was planned that the entrance to the tunnel would be somewhere near Sremska Kamenica, and the exit to Iriga, or where Irig would be visited. The feasibility study was then funded by the province administration. It is also said, in this article, which mentions the period, unfortunately, after that it was no longer mentioned and this tunnel is no longer mentioned, the most important thing of the tunnel will be that it will forever solve the huge problem of the freighter passing through Fruska Mountain and through Irig, where this traffic is one of the busiest of 10,000 to 12,000 vehicles a day and that in the best way it will protect Fruska Mountains and residents of this part. Now I simply ask the question by making comparison with what is planned with the construction of Beograd on Water, where there is clearly a sincere desire to make and do something, which means when something is not going to happen, then it does not. You know, if something isn't considered a priority, then that's not really what the real point is. We're in 2015. We watch bridges are being built in Belgrade, roads and tunnels throughout Serbia. Now we have spent all day and we will spend more time discussing this law on "Belgrade on Water", and only in Vojvodina is the reconstruction of a 150m road declared somewhat significant, marked by a board. The bridge in Novi Sad, as you know, isn't finished yet, which was destroyed during the bombing. TV in Novi Sad, or the TV building, no one even mentions it anymore. The latest story, i.e. the most recent need I would like to emphasise, is the construction of a bridge near Backa Palanca that should enable easier communication between villages that are administratively owned by Bačka Palanca, located in Srem and which now, as Croatia has entered the EU, have lost the opportunity to use its border legislation, rather than have to use passports, making it difficult to communicate and work easily. And now you don't know when that bridge will be built. Why am I alleging this? I simply want to compare how much there is, when it comes to Vojvodina, because I come from LSV and the problems of the citizens of Vojvodina are, I must admit, closer than the rest of Serbia... I simply want to point out whether or not some lex specialis will be brought in to solve these vital problems, and I would like to see it at the gallery then, as we see today the presence of colleagues from the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and the administration, perhaps representatives of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of Vojvodina, if such an opportunity arises. I would simply like to see something like that, and I am stressing again against the construction of Beograd on water, and I do not want to engage in analysis of all this. I just want us to have something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24748	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24749	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. You won't get mad. To me, this was very important and very useful to what you lied about, I just didn't notice that your colleagues jumped to talk about how you didn't talk about the subject, and how they knew to jump, as if the feds had kicked them out, when one of the representatives of the congregation were talking about it. I also know where the Irish Wreath and Irig is, and I think I know where the slope is. The only thing I don't know is the legal status of the mentioned section and the mentioned shares. So I don't know if there's any planning documentation done, I don't know if you asked the Ministry of Finance to determine the public interest and apply the Expropriation Act or not, or if it's already an existing path on which a recovery or reconstruction should be made. Either way, we'll check it out as much as tomorrow, and tomorrow you'll get an answer to our question. I want to tell you a few things that I think are very important. It's not a story and it's not for lex specialis. For lex specialis is a story that has to do with hundreds of millions of euros, not with what we can pay from regular business and which is the duty of our services and our public enterprises to solve relatively quickly. I must remind you that until recently for the second and third priority routes, local roads were in charge of the province's authority. The province government hasn't done anything in three years, as much as Antic, so we had to take it upon ourselves. Yes, it is, I know, because we had a big fight in the government about whether the Republic will accept it or not, so we took it upon ourselves to be able to fix, reconstruct and reassemble the roads of Vojvodina, and then I can't figure it out, that's what I've been asking myself for a long time – what's the rural government doing. Anyway, we're gonna solve this problem. You'll get information on that tomorrow. Let me remind you, Mrs. Lazic, twice already, the Provincial Government, which you say has no jurisdiction, has opened and announced the opening of a tunnel through the Frust Mountain. As the election campaign came, so did they. We haven't yet, I hope we'll come when we build a tunnel through the Frusch Mountain and when we make that road to Capco, which we consider to be one of the most important, but I think we'll only enter the works in 2016. As far as the Iron Bridge is concerned, there's guilt on all of us, our unhappiness, our mutual quarrels, our poisoning who's going to take a picture with Davenport, which I don't understand, to tell you honestly, why it's important to someone, but I don't want to say that it's just the province's administration, but I'm going to say that it's equally the province and republican administration. It's a disgrace like the circus we made. I'm ashamed of strangers, of creditors, of everyone. You all know that I'm right, that we've made some kind of crazy thing about the Iron Bridge that no one can untangle anymore and no one can explain to rational arguments anymore. As for the citizens of Vojvodina, whose problems are more important to you, the problems of the people of Vojvodina are as important to me as the problems of the citizens of Belgrade, central Serbia, KIM and I am not making any difference. I just want to tell you that today there is a law on "Belgrade on Water" on the agenda, but every other law, and there will be a law that will apply to individual projects in Vojvodina, I have no doubt about it, we will defend them with equal passion, with equal love, with equal commitment here and in an equally dedicated and diligent way. Please be available tomorrow and provide us with further information about the stock. I'll try to get full information and give it to you during the evening from the "The Way of Serbia" and to give it to you, and to let you know when, if we haven't responded so far, we will react and that during the evening you know exactly when we will end that section of the road. Thank you for noticing that. I think it's because of the locals of Irig, but it's very important that we solve this problem. Thanks again for the helpful suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24750	On what basis are you answering? There's no basis for replication. (Hope Lazic, from the place: We didn't understand each other.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24751	I'm sorry. We didn't get along. That 150-metre share is only done, and everything else is just patched up. There's a new gust, but I don't know what his fate will be. He's headed for Novi Sad, on a stake in the Irish crown to Novi Sad. The one I was talking about, that 150 meters, it was done correctly and in the right way, but I want to say that part, and everything else is patching up that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24752	Thank you. I expected some MPs to jump now and say this isn't about the law we're discussing today. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. What are you? Are you Irig, Government or Hope Lazic? I don't understand. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I know I have no right, I'm just saying that in the replica, you can turn off the topic. ) Your enthusiasm to turn the topic on something else fascinates me today. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24753	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mayor of Belgrade, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament of the City of Belgrade, I have spent a lot of time analyzing this project, "Beograda na Voda", as well as similar projects currently being implemented around the world. I can only express my support and thank the Prime Minister for his leadership, strategic planning, commitment, energy when it comes to desire, will and real grounds for Serbia not to remain the same, for Serbia not even being better, but for Serbia to be the best in this region. Surely, we from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia can only support this idea of Serbia being like Singapore, or at least something similar to South Korea, and that with our commitment, work and sacrifice, as they say, we all come together to greater employment, to greater economic growth and the development of our country. Given what I heard during today's discussion, I thought we'd hear some other concepts, some other ideas, some other plans, but we didn't hear that, nothing concrete, nothing that could be measured, not measured, but compared in any case to this idea and with such a capital project. I received information from my colleagues from the European Parliament that no similar project is currently being implemented and implemented in Europe. The biggest project is being implemented in Poznan, Poland, and it is worth around 450m euros. All other projects built like this are up to about 300m euros. What's very important for this project is that we have the opportunity to take advantage of Asian capital, and we're all aware of the facts, following the stock market, following the developments in the world, that Asian capital is exactly the capital that invests at the highest percent global level, so worldwide. It is no accident that in December with the Chinese prime minister, he held a summit with the prime ministers of Southeast European countries. It is no accident that on December 23rd, our mayor is organising a summit with the mayors of Southeast European countries. Serbia will also be and Belgrade will be there and we recognise the prime minister's wish, what is called a "pivotal economy hab" in this region; meaning, the main point, the strategic point for investment. Whoever wants to take a strategic look, whoever wants to take a wider look, can see that we are expanding our infrastructure and investing in it. We'll have three airports. We increased the number of passengers in 2014 and, of course, the most helpful job and strategic partnership with Etihad, from three million to four and a half million. If we do this project, there will certainly be more. I think we will also duplicate the number of passengers, which, of course, will have a multiplier impact on tourism, catering facilities, territorial but also quarterly sectors in Belgrade, and of course throughout the country. We have a chance to become the financial center in this part of Europe, to be the center of a regional stock exchange, to be the center of the grous or the largest part of the investments that are going to blend into this region. We see and recognize the desire of both Chinese investors and Chinese investors, as well as investors from the Arab countries, to just invest in this part of Europe and Southeast Europe and to be their way out and the possibility to invest in the Russian Federation but, of course, in Asia and other parts of the world. It is certainly very important that the prime minister, and his entire team, recognized that there is no development without economic development, no other social activities; no culture, no sport, no education, no health care. Earlier, Minister Selakovic mentioned universities, mentioned institutes located in Abu Dhabi, Dubai. Of course we want to, but without economic growth and investment development, there is not even the arrival of such institutes. What is very important, I asked the prime minister's parliamentary question, in July, that Mazdar Institute is working with General Electric on a project worth Serbia, which will have value over the next few years of a billion euros. I think it's very important for our country. Once again, I appeal that perhaps Mazdar, or maybe Mubadala, may be part of this project "Beograda na Voda" and that some space may be left for a technological park. I think this would be of paramount importance to our country; to become the center of the development of information technologies. I also brought to show you that Emar Grup is currently building in Saudi Arabia six of these so-called "economy sitis". Six such cities, the value of the project is 80 billion euros. You can see that. It exists. These cities are in the final stages. With a plan for these six cities to produce a gross $150 billion product, 1,300,000 jobs with a population of 4.5 million and a GDP per capita of $33,500. It exists and it's reality. One of the opposition colleagues was saying that Emmar was investing in Turkmenistan, Libya, must have mixed up with Lebanon. He doesn't invest in Iraq or Libya or Turkmenistan. You know where he invests? He invests in Lebanon, invests in Pakistan, invests in India, invests in the United States, and will invest in Serbia. It's very important that such a company be here for us. It's one of the models that Emar's group applies globally around the world, wanting to make in Serbia, wanting to make of our country, from Belgrade, what's called a business friendly town. Also, I want to point out the same thing, since it was questionable what anyone who knows little about the economy, who knows little about corporate governance and the world stock exchanges can very easily check, which is that this same Emar Corporation only distributed dividends about $2200,000 to its shareholders, at a meeting of the Shareholders' Assembly on December 23rd, decided that it increased income in the last year compared to 2013 by $914 million. Now, that's the company that's going to build here. That's the company that built Dubai Mall, whose traffic makes 5% of the entire Emirat Dubai, and we think we're doing it here. We think and just now my colleague Branka Bosnjak told me – and we have this sea, and we have all the resources, and we have these opportunities, that's Sava and Danube, that's where it's going to be built. We don't want it to remain the status quo and we don't want it to remain the mockery of our city. We want to be the best. If Singapore could do this, if South Korea, which in 1967, had a GDP of $87 per capita and was one of the poorest countries in the world, Serbia could do the same. I express absolutely one full support for bringing here hotel chains owned by the Emar Group, I will point out, these are "Addres hotels", these are "Vida hotels", these are "Rou hotels", these are the best hotels, not only in the Middle East area, but globally. So the facts, the figures, talk about seriousness, about the importance of this project, and I can't do anything but say that in this aspect of the development of this project, we support the government, we support the prime minister, not to be modest, and we will clean it up, we will infrastructure it, but in the coming period in a few years and we will do it and it will be one serious motivator, one serious impulse, that all of Serbia develops. We will develop tourism in this way, develop production, develop many sectors. In that sense, I also wanted to say that we will support the maximum, we will participate in the development of this project as much as possible and, of course, in the voting day, and we will also talk on amendments when it comes to perhaps some suggestions on what might still be done in that domain. We will have some suggestions that the entire Beograd on Water project should be asked to talk to Mazdar, to talk to Mubadal, to create perhaps some technological park or to leave it in a area that involves 60 thousand square meters to make such a thing there, to be the centre of information technologies. In any case, Serbia is developing very quickly, very dynamically, very well in this way and I think we're on a good path. I think you recognize a clear aspect of the strategic planning of leadership, which I want you to endure and thank, of course, for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24754	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24755	I want to thank Mr Marinkovic for his patience to work hard, learn and learn about those we work with. I've known these people for a long time, I've had the honor of meeting them by chance, and when some people talk about how we haven't been able to get anything, I'll remind you that we've got what we're fortunately got today, somewhere around $900 million that we took from the Arabs, so we can hedge our debt in dollars and it's just being run like a bigger public debt, and it's not, because we have this money that we can pay back the interest dollars. Don't forget we took 2% here. We took that from them, which doesn't exist anywhere on the financial market that you can get. About "Er Serbia" that I'm not talking. They donated more buildings, from the Geozovod building, to the BIA building, to these three kindergartens, health homes and schools in Novi Pazar, until they built a wood industry factory in Raška and Pazar. It always struck me when, according to our friends, according to those who, don't forget, gave us the largest cash after the flood and individually the largest houses built, to exclude the EU, so, individually, the most bilaterally built houses and to give us the most money. So I am grateful to people who can respect it, because we, Serbian citizens, have always known that we appreciate those who are our friends when it is difficult and who help us without any interest, unlike some who and when they help us, you are not sure how much they help us. They're nothing more, I really want to say that they hear citizens, they don't ask for anything more than gratitude. That's why some countries tend to attack, where they say they want to rob something. They just say -- sorry, we're out of here, goodbye, we have so much money that there's no need to rob anything. But what to do. It is such a struggle for such investors that at one point I was afraid that Todorovic and others from Croatia would be able to drag them more there instead of here, so free hunting sites, so all possible miracles etc. But I think that, in any case, with all due respect and desire to co-operate with Croatia and to help Croatia, their first destination in the Balkans, if I may note, among other things because of good political and personal relations, will remain Serbia. You were talking about Alabama. It's a man who always insists on every detail. I've never seen anyone with so much positive energy and that he's so hard on his associates, he doesn't take any fault anywhere. It can't happen to him that in Goce Delcheva, a street in New Belgrade, we don't have flowers everywhere between two strips. It cannot happen to him that his seedling is not planted on the road from Prince Milos when you go up to Andre Nikolic. I'm not sure it's Andre Nikolic, but it doesn't matter. So, when you're headed for the Topchider Star. So, he can't have one seedling missing like the one we're missing. That's impossible for Alabama. To see his anxiety when he changes bridges between that shopping mall, which, by the way, is for people to know, is visited by 80 million visitors. It's a more visited facility, 32.3 million visits to the Paris region, and 80 million visitors were at a shopping mall in Dubai. Why? Because someone was worried about what kind of pools would be, what bridges would be over. He takes care of every detail, and now he's going to invest a new $2.5 million just to change bridges because people like to take pictures on these bridges, and they're small now, so they can't take all the guests. He calculated that it is better to invest a new 2.5 million, and through the number of tourists he will return five. It's an incredible concern, amazing knowledge. Why am I saying this? Because you see how much the world's biggest media respects them, and it's just us that's always kind of a question, a joke, because we Serbs are probably the smartest in the world, and everybody else is stupid and they can't do anything, so we know that much better than they do, so we'll do much better. We can't look around and see what they've already done, and what it is that we're almost not getting there. I want to tell you, dear friends, that I would like us to be near Singapore and South Korea. For many years, it takes us many decades to reach them. I'd like us to be half of what we have to do with economic success, as far as industriousness is concerned. If we're half of it, then not only in this region will we be the best and most successful, but I'd say a lot wider. One more thing about tech parks. I think we have a serious future here and we need to talk to them and the Mazhar and the Chinese and the Indians about how and how to further develop the IT sector in our country. Because, don't forget, they only asked us to do, what would be said in front of the school, for the chips, they asked for our 80 million, and we didn't have, we went down with our shoulders and said, we don't have that money. We really didn't have that money. If we had, in a year or two it would start to pay off and how and how we would have one of the best and most powerful industries in the world. But that's why everything we can accept, everything we can install, everything we can do I don't think we can drop out of our hands and I think we should take it and do it. To finish, we've been talking here all day about whether something is in accordance with this law or not, whether it's less good or more good, but if you noticed, today we haven't talked for a second about whether it's going to be or not, whether it's a Vucic fairy tale, whether it's a Shecherezada and a thousand and a night, as some have said, or it's real. As you noticed, those who said they didn't believe me and those who said they were some kind of fairy tales, that they were some fictional stories, forgot about fairy tales, now they know it's real, and I'm the only one who can promise, I can never guarantee that everything will be over, because it's not just up to me and just us, but I promise you we'll do a lot of work, and I'm sure we'll sort out that part of the Belgrade coast, it's bringing in much better, much more beautiful and much more serious and more responsible than it was today, that we'll double the number of tourists. I said that the real result for us would be to give the number of tourists ten, but we're going to need hotels for that. As I hear it, the first hotel has been contacted by the Double Ju chain, which will be a new significant investment for Belgrade and a new significant name coming to Belgrade. I hope that the people of "Soravia" will expand their business from Blue Radisson and I believe that we will have more success, and thank you for being one of the few people who followed what these people are doing. Remember, in 1973, when old Zayed, the late Zayed went to Libya to Gaddafi, he told him – I hope that my country will look like Libya in 40 years today. Look at what Libya looks like today, see what they look like today. It is all in the end in those who have visions and how and how they will manage their country to lead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24756	The word has Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24757	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, you don't have to touch me so hard. Thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24758	Sign up again, so I can give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24759	There's no need, remember these 40 seconds, yet a man rarely gets a chance to have a round of applause like this. At first, I want to say that I am not against Beograda on Water, and I agree that now there are only 52 wrecks, three sewers and some managers and that this part of the city is probably the greatest potential for the development of Belgrade that needs to be even more modern and even more beautiful. Also, I'm not even disgusted with investors, no matter where they come from. I also agree that this project can raise the construction industry in Serbia, at least a little. The prime minister says that some here resist modernization, progress, and I say that I resist ignorance and inadequacy in business. So I'm not against "Biograda on Water", but I am against the way you think you're implementing this project. Here, first of all, I'm thinking about the cost of realising the project. Since my time of exposure is very limited, I'm going to try to illustrate the surface of your approach to this complex business by sticking to the agenda alone. First, let me ask the prime minister, and all the members of the government who are here today called on us to talk about the law, etc., did they read, read or learn anything from this book, so did they read this book, called "The Management of Projects in Construction"? This book at our university, so at Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering, is used by students of the second, third and fourth years. I know the answer, and without you giving it, so absolutely no one read this book from here, because if anyone had taken this book into their hands he could see that the title of this law, so without entering the members of the law, the title of this law doesn't make any sense. Thus, in the very name of the Bill's proposal, it is said that this law is adopted for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. Here, we can open this book and see the first page, where the introduction of an investment project writes, and first, we can read the definition of what an investment project is, a shortened project, and right after the definition, we can also see the numbered phases in the realization of the project where it is said that the construction phase is just one of seven stages in the realization of the project. So, the syntagma of the construction project simply does not mean anything in Serbian. The second proof, in the very Law on Planning and Construction, is that the project is mentioned in 99 places, there are different projects. Here is the Law on Planning and Construction of the Urban Project, a project in the field of parceling, project parceling, geodetic markings, a project of comossation, an idea project, a general project, a project for building permits, a project of a project carried out, etc., but a project of construction simply in the Law on Planning and Construction is not mentioned anywhere, defined or even exists. To be clear, it's not the point here whether one word is excess or wrongly used, but the point is that through this name of the law you show that the entire government is headed by the prime minister, as well as the people who participated in his writing have no idea how a project is implemented. And if one of you had any idea how to implement a project you wouldn't be sending us a bill that says, on page 10, I'm asking you to take the bill you signed, here's your signature and that you sent to the National Assembly and says the financial means to implement this bill need additional funding from the budget, period. It's a joke to me. How much funding is needed to realise this project? How could you sign and send this law to the National Assembly, you simply did not explain it. Also, according to the law, the total costs for the regulation of public areas and facilities will be around 33 billion dinars. Based on what? Based on what project documentation has this assessment been carried out? And now we can go back to this book, apartment 276, and it's like this, that there are four types of evaluations. A conceptual or rough assessment. Preliminary or detailed assessment. Definition or performance assessment or total or final assessment. Also in this book, 80 apartments describe cost assessment technology. For any serious assessment of the costs of the implementation of a project, it is necessary to have a project documentation, which you said did not exist. You said there were only two towers, a hotel and one other facility. I followed everything well today, wrote it down. So you don't have projects to edit public areas, and give an estimate of the value of realising these objects. So I want to say it again. I absolutely don't mind building Beograd on water, but with this kind of approach to realising this project, I'm afraid the citizens of Serbia will very expensively pay for the construction of big dreams or the dreaming of our prime minister's fairy tale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24760	Thank you. The word is President Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24761	First of all, I'm grateful that you're not against this project, which is less important than the petty insults you've been making. I haven't read the book “Government of Projects in Construction” although I don't think I've read any fewer books in my life from you. I'll read it by Sunday. You know, there are people who like to read, who always have time, so I promise you I'll read it by Sunday. I wish if you could give me a present, it would mean a lot to me, books are my favorite gift. National MP Aleksandar Senic presents the book to the prime minister. I thank you. So, for me, it is very important that your intention to assist in the realization of this project is very important. Some things you didn't understand from our exposure, even though I'm not professional enough and I don't use enough professional expressions. Namely, we have projects for infrastructure works. We also have projects for buildings. The projects for some other buildings are in the final phase. There were no words that we only have four objects, although this is the first A phase to be completed sometime by mid-2017 or by the end of 2017, which would define the appearance of that space by the Sava amphitheatre or "Begrada na Voda". On the other hand, maybe we have no idea, maybe you're right, maybe it should have just written "projects" that it doesn't write construction because it's one-seventh of the overall process. I don't have any problem talking about it, so let's see it and make it right. We succeeded, if you want in a positive sense and as a bulldozer, to remove all that junk, all that mockery, everything that many others didn't, and the world that they didn't want, they had a lot of idea, but the hair and the bra that they didn't know at all. We knew that, and we're ready to study, and you guys check to see if I've read this book and it's never hard for me to accept it and admit it and we'll keep doing it that way. Although it's possible for some of your amendments to be accepted. Once again I want to take advantage of the opportunity to invite you to participate in this together, because I know that you will be happy too, and your children will rejoice because they will have a much nicer space than they have today. In that space of us from Belgrade, no one's ever been there. No one's ever been and let's not lie, talk fairy tales, anything. None of us went there in our lives, and now we're whining like Damian's vegetable, about how hard it is for us, because I don't know what it is, because it's always been some kind of mockery of Belgrade, etc. I think it's important for us and it's good that you showed that with all that, whether it's my fairy tales, or not, or... I don't think there's a man who doesn't have his dreams. My dreams are about Serbia's success and I'm completely committed to it. Whether we get some of that or not, that's what we're gonna see. My dreams were also such that I never had to do, to hurt anyone in Serbia, but I had to participate in making the most difficult decisions in Serbia, not with my own fault, but with the guilt of those who had ruled before me, who had criminally and very badly managed this country, who destroyed our businesses, so we had to make decisions to reduce wages in the public sector and pensions. I once again believed that we could pull all this together, that we could win together, and today I absolutely believe in it, and now that I see that they're making a joke out of it, there's never been a drink in our cabinets, absolutely nothing in the government. I've seen it in some newspapers, so it's important that I say it because of the people in Serbia. The first time I ordered one glass for three people was when Vujovic finished the first quarter, for the first time, with such a minimum deficit, to show how happy we are, how happy we are about Serbia's success. These dreams have slowly begun to come true for us, and Serbia will succeed, and Serbia will succeed because of its discipline. I told you this because we have discipline. We don't have any government that's been held on the phone, 130-session government, none of which have been held on the phone. One hundred and thirty-seven government meetings were none of them telephoned. There's almost no delay in government with us. We don't have a story in our voice, we know the order. By knowing the order, by respecting discipline, there is no game with either the ministers or the Prime Minister, if you will, because there is no drinking in us, there is no cigarette, unless someone is hiding it, and I can't see it, which I don't rule out as a possibility. But I think it does, too, and it brings the result that we can make those dreams come true. This change and working habits, this change of consciousness, is something that will allow us to realize these dreams. I get my dreams, and you call them fairy tales, and I'm glad you keep calling them that, we'll see if the fairy tales, even though this building of the Geozoda or the Belgrade Cooperative looks like a fairy tale, especially when you go into it and on the outside, it almost works, and many other buildings will look like fairy tales, but believe me, it'll be reality and it'll be proud of all the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24762	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24763	Dear President, we are going back to one of the issues that has been raised in today's debate, which is an important issue, it is an alternative issue. Since, said the MP who spoke, before the Prime Minister, that the project was a joke. I wouldn't look too much at it, I just want to say that as someone who was born in Belgrade, who loves this city, I think it's really a joke that for 70 or 100 years we haven't been able to clean up a few acres of perhaps the best building land, the most beautiful part of Belgrade that's on the river, we haven't been able to take care of countless sewers that pour into our rivers, we haven't been able to get rid of the tows and the managers. It was simple, and I was ashamed when you looked through history that we had no energy, in Belgrade there were not 10 or 20 people for many years of former authorities and to say – I'm sorry, I don't agree with this. Let's change something, this is terrible what's going on. Let's clean up, let's get together, we don't have to pay for any state, let's go clean up even the garbage, let's put pressure on someone from the city to pull these boots, to pick up what's not legal, to legalize people's property, to do anything. There was no energy. Then, when there's energy, when there's an alternative, when there's a solution, then huge energy is just against it, and you say in the first part, you're declared not against the project, but then through your whole exposure, I actually realize that it's best for us to give it up. It's best if we leave all of this the way it is or I don't know what, and let it be the way it was two years ago, three, five, because there's just an alternative. Now, I would say that at the end of this moment we have people thinking about what the future of both this city and this country will look like and I am convinced that there will be people who are able to do something, who have launched projects that will be done and when you see the first foundation, the first buffer, the first shovel and the first workers, you will see that this is completely public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24764	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Minister Jadranka Joksimovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24765	I, by the way, really didn't plan on talking about this issue, because there are a lot of people who are more invited than I am, but I am really inspired by this shift of focus that Mr. Senic is, otherwise, president of the Committee on European Integration, and I now see that you are actually a builder by profession, and therefore you are not running a committee. Now it's clear to me that you should focus on what you're doing better. Moving the subject is in a different sense. You were here talking about a syntagma, which was used in the name of the bill, which concerns building a project. So this is, otherwise, a bill that needs to regulate one important preparatory action, which is an expropriation, i.e. the end of expropriation and the definition of public interest, because it is an obligation in all international, among other things, to European standards that the process of expropriation of the sea, i.e. cannot be carried out on an arbitrary basis, for unwarranted reasons, but by law, it is in a comprehensive way defining public interest and that is simply the basis of European law in that domain which must also be ensured by the owners of the notice of expropriation and the possibility of potential disputed expropriation in front of some neutral body, a prohibition of discrimination, in every respect. This is simply defined in practice and most countries define expropriation through the Constitution, and then this comprehensive set of laws or the legal framework that defines the procedure for expropriation determines what the public interest is, I repeat, the essence of this and defines the method of compensation etc. I think we should go back to the topic of public interest and that's the point we need to talk about here today. Public interest is interpreted in different ways in different legal systems, but essentially it means that the purpose of the property is to be used for the welfare of the community or the state of perse, not for a specific individual or group. These reasons can be, the reasons for national security, can be the reasons for economic development, which is also national security in this case, since you are engaged in international relations, I assume you include that component in interpreting the importance of this law. So economic growth, which is very important here, and then social justification or social justice as often defined. It's mostly considered a public interest. The public interest, of course, has a political dimension, has an ethical dimension, has an emotional or emotional dimension, it's also a public interest. It has a socio-economic dimension, and above all it has an economic implications. I've heard more than once during today's debate that the first, completely otherwise unfounded, of course, thing that has prevailed here is a private interest. I'm just interested even if that's the case, and it's not, which is why it's necessary for the private interest to be contrary to the public interest? Where did you see that? If you have read Adam Smith, who is nevertheless the creator of something that is a market economy, he even says that the best way to achieve public interest is to allow people to pursue their private interests. No one here is realising their private interests, because no one has come and asked us for land, but we have said what to do with such a great potential that literally, let's say, the whole century has not been used. I don't know what's wrong with that. I really can't understand that kind of interpretation. You'd better focus on that part about public interest. The next thing you know, it's very important that I mention it, and you just encouraged me, and I don't know how interesting it might be right now, but it's very important that we say it. You know, "Belgrade on Water" is not some shifted fantasymagoria in someone's head, but it's part of, if you will, our relationship to infrastructure investment. For your information, we have formed the National Investment Committee for Infrastructure Projects, chaired by Minister Vujovic, Finance Minister and I as a national IPA coordinator. Why am I saying that? I am saying this for the reason that, normally, Forum 1 is, through a list of defined priorities, a project in the area of infrastructure, otherwise we are one of the few countries that has a defined methodology for, and you should know, simply, the methodology for priority and preparation of projects in the area of infrastructure, and therefore we are particularly commended by the European Commission, we are truly particularly commended. We are the only state in the region to form this National Investment Committee. So, within this National Investment Committee, where we define among other things from which funds or sources of funding of certain infrastructure projects can be built, of course something from European funds, something from loans, something from investments, which is why it is called the National Investments Committee, it is very important, otherwise we have to remind you, at the end of April we will have the second National Investment Board in the area of infrastructure, I think Mr Packe will also be present because he was present and for the first time, because the EU is of course very interested to see from which all sources of funding are being made and how we become an important part of strengthening and improving regional infrastructure. Through this National Investment Board, I think you should have followed it, you are simply the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, we will have projects which, among other things from IPE 2015, are financed by an intermodal terminal in Batajnica, which means that what has been done by rail integrated transport that is now in the space provided for "Belgrade on Water" will actually be relocated. So, through the intermodel terminal in Batajnica, it is funded from the IPE in 2015. This includes the removal of railway infrastructure, which means the end of the bypass, that means the completion of the "Prokop". These are all the projects that we are coordinating through this National Investment Board from different sources of funding. So they are not just part of some project called "Biograda on Water" imagined. These are our national infrastructure projects that we finance from the World Bank's loan, the IBRD, etc., from the IPE. In particular, an intermodal terminal from IPE in 2015. The next thing I know, I'm also sorry that you're not as president of the Committee on European Integration somewhere, is that this is a concrete contribution to us as a country, or a country, as well as to Belgrade as a Danube city to the development of the Danube macro-regional or Danube strategy, therefore, which it has formulated as one of its two macro-regionals of the EU. It doesn't matter about Sava, Belgrade is a city, a Danube town, so it is treated because the priorities of the Danube Strategy and the strengthening of macro-region are just economic development, new employment, the rise of this business invarment, tourism, etc. If it is not a contribution, and if you do not think that it is mildly viewed, especially in a situation where everyone in Europe is crying for investment and it is pure investment, and if you know what funds are meant for the development of the Danube strategy which is significantly less than this investment that is supposed to bring Serbia between three and 3.5 billion euros, then I think that you really haven't entered into the essence of the project and not just the project as you as a builder, I understand, in terms of precision and terminology and everything, I understand it completely and perhaps you are right, but in the context of that and regional, if you want us as a country that is on the path of European integration and regional infrastructure and everything this project will mean, that I am not now talking about some other socio-economic implications, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24766	I thank Mrs Joksimovic. People's MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24767	Thank you, Your Honor. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure when you didn't warn the previous speaker in article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. At the beginning of her presentation, the previous speaker gave herself the right to assess how the president of the Assembly Committee on European Integration is doing its job. Then, if so, then I can give myself the right to say that the Minister of European Integration is not doing his job well, because in a year and three months, no chapter is open and probably not open by the end of this year, and if we're going to talk about someone's work and worklessness, then we can always start by ourselves and talk about how we fulfill that function that citizens have chosen us here in Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24768	Mr. Djurishic, please don't turn a breach of the Rules of Procedure into a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24769	... and we in parliament members of the government. If the minister has any need to tell us about her work, as do other members of the government, including the prime minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24770	Mr. Djurishic, you are aware of your abuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24771	I remind them, on April 30th at the 16th of the last Thursday of the month, come and answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24772	Mr. Djurisic, I must not allow you to abuse the Rules of Procedure because of other MPs. Before I give my word, all that remains is for you to write speeches for the members of the government, and by this I say they speak, that they must not answer your questions in their own way. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24773	I wanted to react first of all because of this attack on the Adriatic and the untruths that were made. There's no need to use that tone. Neither did the Adriatic girl yell, nor did any of us. I don't know what's wrong with you today or why you think that you're hurting the Rules of Procedure and forbid others to say what they think and allow yourselves to say what you want. Your MP told us about how we have no idea, how we don't know anything, told us about something. In doing so, I didn't know that he brought me the book of my friend Branislav Ivković, thank you for it, it's good to respect him and his work, so that's okay, I'll read the book as I said, but please don't give us a lecture on decent behavior because we're really trying to answer everything in the most polite way possible, even when it's quite obvious how many serious arguments we have. We don't transfer anything to you in any way, except allow ourselves the right to answer. I am now in charge of the untruths that have been made to say that we have managed to get negotiations with the EU started. We have completed a complete screening process which is the biggest technical part of the work that exists in the integration process with the EU and that you would not deceive the citizens and say that it is the Adriatic in any way, I do not think anyone is guilty, but people need to know that the opening of the chapter depends on only one thing, and that is whether certain Member States will be satisfied with our dialogue with Pristina or not. So, all the other assignments we've accomplished completely, with the best grades. What Miss Joksimovic was in charge of ended only with the greatest success of my best grades, better than many other countries have done. The only condition that stands before us, now that you ask me, I can tell you, when Mrs Mogerini was here, was also present, Minister Dacic, I think the Adriatic, and many others, I said – just don't tell me, as some ignorant people from the former regime say, that we haven't implemented the Brussels Agreement. I have brought the Brussels Agreement in both Serbian and English, it has shown that we have fulfilled all but the first six points, out of 15 concerning the rights of Serbs, concerning the creation of the Serb community of the municipality or the Serb association of the municipality as Albanians say. It's the only thing that isn't fulfilled by the Brussels Agreement. Everything else is some other things that have nothing to do with the Brussels Agreement or the implementation plan. This is where we try to look to protect Serbian interests, defend everything we can without stopping our European path. Let me tell you right now, you're wrong again, we're going to open this year's chapter. I was not ready, and I am confident that I have your support on this, and I refused to talk about the Gazivoda issue, because I told them – first bring the map and look at the Gazivod, we offered you five plus five, Serbs and Albanians, we offered you a joint firm, 23% on central Serbia territory, half on Zubin Potok municipality, half on the territory of the Serb municipality or, as they say, Skenderaj. You want me to have full hydro potential, all the water that needs to go to Metohija, you want us to give you all the potential to generate electricity, and we have nothing from that both Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It's my fault if we talk about it. I said I wouldn't even talk about it until you first took a good look at the map, so send your experts to Belgrade, I have 10 people here who have been there and, therefore, I have no problem telling you. Do not accuse in this case our administration that has done much better than the administration of any other country, and especially not Jadranka Joksimovic, who is committed to this and which I am, because I am looking to preserve what I think is ours, in some sense I am disturbing to open it earlier. Although it is my desire to open chapters first, although it is our desire to be as quick as possible in the process of European integration, you must understand that the only thing that is limited is, the only thing that is used to it is talks with Pristina and progress in dialogue with Pristina. Don't pretend to think it's something about the rule of law, that it's something about our economic reforms. The whole world supports our economic reforms. That's what opened the door for us all over the world. No Serbian prime minister has ever been accepted by all Scandinavian prime ministers, never received a call from all Scandinavian prime ministers. Never in Serbia's history. Now we got it because Serbia was ready to take heavy measures and move forward with heavy reforms. There is another problem here, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, and here we are very careful, and here we look to protect always our national, our national interests and it's the only trap on that road. So, we're going to open chapters, we're going to go to Europe, but at the same time we're going to look to keep everything possible from our national and national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24774	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24775	Dreams and fairy tales aren't the same. We have a dream, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24776	I'm sorry, Mr. Vulin, only after Mr. Djurisic throws away. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Djurishic, there have been several discussions before you. Before we come to the conclusion at all, whether you have the right to a replica or not, they have to get the word too. Here you go, Mr. Vulin, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24777	Dreams and fairy tales aren't the same. We have dreams. We dream of a better Serbia. We dream of a more just Serbia and certainly a more successful Serbia than the one we found in 2012, that's for sure. Like you used to say it was a fairy tale that we'd ever make a good and successful arrangement with the IMF, so it came true. That's how you said that Jelizara Smedereva would be the most common fairy tale, so as you can see, we put her on our feet, and that came true. So now you're saying that "Belgrade on Water" will be a fairy tale, as you can see, we're sure it'll come true. Here, words were mentioned, such as “freaky. ” The only "rage" here is that we've been listening to stories for a year about how savings are bad, how not to, how only investments can wake us up and make us successful, and then when you provide an investment from abroad that only at this stage of at least 100m euros, then you attack that same investment. We may have no idea, but the gentleman obviously has no idea this isn't a law that deals with construction. This isn't a law that deals with a single building project. This is a law that determines public interest. This isn't building matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24778	Mr. Djurishich? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Do you really think you have the right to a replica? Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Of course I do. I don't think you do, Mr. Djurishich. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. (Alexander Senic, from the place: I am mentioned. Replica. Positive, Mr. Senic. You're the one who caused the replica. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24779	Thank you very much. The esteemed chairman, respected Prime Minister Vukic, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, is the goal of expropriation everywhere in the world, which is precisely building objects that are in the public interest. This public interest has certain synonyms that have been applied in our own, but also in other countries, so we have a general interest, public benefit or a legally established public need. This public interest, since it has been mentioned to a large extent today, is the cornerstone of every expropriation, and it has been defined in our positive legislation at the time of socialist self-management, in a rather narrow way, where only the building of apartments of solidarity has been favoured since the housing. From here we come to the current Expropriation Act, so in this Expropriation Act there is no possibility of declaring public interest because of the construction of ordinary apartments, catering and tourist facilities, and this is precisely the result of this narrow communist interpretation of public interest from the period when social property was dominant, which is essentially nothing but an ordinary Ali-bey of straw. There is no single reason for any claim that the construction of Beograd on water is not a public interest, because it is the very opposite, it is a public interest because it will mark the whole region. It will be built in a place that today represents the mockery of the capital and is where stray dogs reign today and is a place that represents a mockery and a waste. On the other hand, we have to go, say, from our neighbors. We have cases like that from Montenegro. Look, for example, right from that country, say, Porto Montenegro or you don't have to, look at Luštica or look at an example from Montenegro about Buljarica, where there is an expropriation there for the construction of tourist facilities, which are multi-teaching and I think we need to learn something from these examples, because they are primarily useful. The rest, not only of society in the environment, but also of world experience, are those that show that it is always justified by a special law to extend and establish the public interest of the Expansion Act, because it cannot be basemented in democracy and claim and believe that private capital is harmful to the people and the state, and just examples of comparative law are there, as well as modern international legislation, and show that it is not dangerous for the people or for the state, if someone invests in development projects. Of course, the interest is that, in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia, this interest is determined on the basis of the law. And the European Convention on Fundamental Human Freedoms and Rights, the legal joke of the EU on the expropriation and intensification of the European Commission, is now allowing the public interest to be established by a special law and I see absolutely nothing constitutional and absolutely cannot be called upon to do so without being justified. In this place, I have a few more details to present. You see, in the United States, for those who are criticising the "Belgrade on Water" project, there is an expression called - the state's supreme right to property, and it is widely used in the US. Then in the UK, there is one expression that is also applied in that country, which is a forced purchase. For example, buying to build apartments, building infrastructure facilities, municipal buildings, sports facilities, etc. In France, for example, there's an institution that takes away property in the public interest. In Germany, of course, the standards on expropriation are contained in the very law on expropriation, but they can also be supplemented by some other legal acts. And finally we have one example, which is an example, of course, Italy, where against the public benefit declaration, and I will remind you that the public benefit girlship of Italy is preceded by the very procedure of expropriation in Italy, in fact, there is no possibility of running a administrative dispute. So all of those criticisms today, the numerous criticisms that have been applied specifically to the question of public interest are being shown as unwarranted, because if we start from being responsible, so we've prepared ourselves for this debate, we've read the whole of this law, then we'll see that exactly the comparative experiences of at least the countries that I've cited show the opposite. So, the Lex Specialis is completely justified and it is completely justified and it is a completely permitted form in a way that is overly necessary to make a project like this come true and live. That's why I'm saying that the claims are entirely when they're being made, when critics are being referred to, are rather undemocratic, and that actually contesting the regulation of this matter by a special law does not have its own justification either constitutionally or any other. This Lex specialises as of course and at all, not only this special law but every other law must monitor real flows and in the first order be subject to the interest of the people. I can't legally be a prisoner of some past times, some past ideology, communist consciousness and subconscious, and I've already stated that something had been defined before. It was sometimes difficult to imagine that it was even possible to build any impressive objects, cities that would represent in the truth if "Belgrade on Water" really was completed completely. That no legislator, however imaginative, could have imagined something like this a while ago, but that does not mean that a fully adequate and comprehensive legal framework should not be created to implement such an idea. Here, since I'm running out of time, I'm only going to give you one example. Let's say, imagine that Serbia gets the Olympics by chance. According to the existing, still current, applicable Expropriation Act, it is hardly possible to realize the construction of such an Olympic village, and "Belgrade on Water" is certainly an example, something that goes beyond what I have stated in the case. He thinks the absolute criticisms that are being addressed today don't stand. I, in this place, have to make one professional criticism, it is legal, more actually a suggestion that this legal text should be improved, that is something that my colleague Chikiriz mentioned in his presentation, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 11. actually his position 5. where the assessment of the market value of building land in my personal opinion cannot be done by the Tax Administration. It's got to be done by the witches, that's their profession. So permanent court experts on the list of artists, because that sort of thing is in line with the Constitutional Court, in line with the EU's evaluations and what is primarily important, is in line with our case law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24780	The word has Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24781	Thank you for the extraordinary discussion, which had direct connections only to the law. We have no problem accepting this amendment, but you think a little bit more because after the question is asked – who, how and what procedure do we choose the artist, why that one. Tax administration is still a state branch, so that's the only reason, otherwise we don't have a problem essentially accepting your amendment. By the time the amendments are decided, I ask you to consult with our professional services and with the mayor once again to see both the good and the bad both sides of the proposal. Basically, we have no problem accepting your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24782	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Senic, I would still like to protect you from abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Alexander Senic, from the place: Don't.) Here's what I've hurt, which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24783	So, Mr. Chairman, Article 104 says that if someone points out my name and last name or function, and the Minister has given me both the name and the name and function of the President of the Committee on European Integration and is insultingly expressing herself by saying that I am doing my job badly, just please explain to me how you have concluded that I do not have the right to reply?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24784	Well, as you said, Mr. Senic, in that member, the chairman estimates whether the replica, or in this case, the presentation of the speaker, was offensive to some MP. I felt that in Miss Joksimovic's speech, nothing was offensive to you, and I felt that you had no right to reply. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24785	I still think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24786	Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24787	I don't want to. I mean, it's not your fault, it's a matter of intelligence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24788	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24789	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, distinguished fellow MPs, honored guests at the gallery. So, we have this law that is passed, though not according to the accelerated procedure, which I welcome certainly, as it was originally planned, but which is essentially brought to our citizens to understand this, respected citizens of Serbia, they are making this law so that a private investor and a private project will get into their hands something that is part of the city of Belgrade, and then the part is declared public interest even though it is hotels, apartments and shopping malls. We have nothing against foreign investors, we have nothing against investors from the United Arab Emirates, we don't mind that this part of Belgrade is finally cleaned up, and as you've said more than once – to cut the grass, we have nothing against it. Nothing has been touched since the beginning, since the time of 2001 or 2002, when Mr. Vesic from the gallery there was building cycling trails with Djindjic. No one's touched anything since. And I agree, exactly, that's not where nobody got into that part. But respected citizens here's how they came up with it. I have a dear friend who told me -- listen, I have a few dozen projects all over the world on the same level, so I'd like to do it with you for a few reasons. To raise the value of my company and other maybe even do something. I personally believe that something will probably be done. And I don't hate anyone, let me say it in advance. But what I really hate, it's an attempt to hide the facts from the citizens of Serbia, and the facts are next. This law is passed in a situation where the applicable Expropriation Act cannot be applied because it cannot be applied to private property to be built in the form of apartments, malls, malls and other things. Well, since you can't, faithful and dear friend, we're going to pass a special law, so that's possible, and since we don't have a contract, and we don't have any projects, and since we don't have any apartments, and we have a model that I don't make fun of, but I have to ask by the way, what's a model? I've seen a few. Mr. Mali represented some two towers, a strange shape like this, and we didn't see that tallest tower. Then we saw that tallest tower. I don't mind. Maybe both the third and the third and the fourth and the fifth exist on the model, probably there is. Serbian citizens are interested in what will eventually be there and how much they will pay, how much it costs the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, how much Serbia will, in particular, we have heard several amounts, today the prime minister has made an effort and said that amount here, several times. I want to know how much will be invested by Serbian citizens in that part of Belgrade. So, since it is not possible, this project is said to be of special importance to the Republic of Serbia. Why is this project of special importance for the Republic of Serbia? We heard about the construction operation. It's not bad, it's good for the Republic of Serbia, because during your power it fell 45%. We welcome that. However, despite all the efforts, you cannot explain to us, since I strictly adhere to the bill, not entering any other stories, just tell us why this project is of particular importance to the Republic of Serbia, building thousands of apartments, business space, shopping malls? Not to go into whether the view will be hidden, whether the aesthetic value of the City of Belgrade will be compromised, I am not really going into it. I repeat, no one supports leaving a mockery there. It's a replacement thesis. We ask you, why is this a project of special importance, not for this company, not for this investor, but for the citizens of Serbia? How much is it going to cost you flats out there that you started to break, so people thought you were selling something that didn't exist? What's the price of squares going to be? Why didn't you want to go to a public competition and a tender? Taking into account, Mr. Prime Minister, it is true, many were competitors, failed, there were many elections in Serbia, failed, so that we could end the elections? What do we need laws for? You're wondering about everything in this country anyway. It can't possibly be a public interest in living space. It's not possible, logically or legally. That is not possible either, based on the Serbian Constitution. Why did you avoid it? For what? I welcome the opportunity to talk to the mayor's experts, and I welcome that. Why wasn't there a public hearing? Why did you ignore the word "strike"? You didn't answer that. Why do you lift the flooring limit for Belgrade, and you don't mind that there is no flooring in Paris over five floors, when you are already calling for the Eiffel Tower? Well, tell me until the end of it, then. In 1889, Mr. Prime Minister, the Eiffel Tower and another 700 facilities were built for the world's exhibition that year. They're all down except the Eiffel Tower. Why? Because Mr. Gustav Ifel or Gustav Ifel, as you said, had a nice apartment upstairs where he made deals with the mayor of Paris and other city officials in a corrupt way to preserve the facility. That's why the citizens rebelled because there was corruption in the question, not because that obelisk was paralyzing the sky over Paris. And we're going to have to paralyze the sky over Belgrade, but you're not going to paralyze it because some building is ugly or someone doesn't like money from the Arab Emirates, not because you have to call the experts first, open up a public debate, change the urban plan, call a contest, go to a tender, and see what the citizens of Belgrade need there. Some people say they need parks. Some people say they need cultural content. You heard, Prime Minister, voices like that. I do not dispute that you have a vision, I do not dispute at all that you have a dream of Serbia being in a better place, that Belgrade looks better and to raise our operation. I'm not arguing. I appreciate people with visions. The problem is, Mr. Prime Minister, that every day your dreams are becoming a Serbian citizens' nightmare and I always kind of get to say that to you in the Assembly, and it's really embarrassing. You have in article 8, the amazing thing that says, Article 8, Article 4, point 4. - persons who are entitled to property on the building land acquired in the process of converting the right of use under the right of property without compensation shall be entitled to the compensation of the market value of that land if the right to use is acquired by the load legal work. Watch this. This article provides for all constitutional and legal principles. Why? This member of the regulation indicates precisely that the intention of the author of this law is to confuse and unclear provisions to achieve an objective contrary to the Constitution and the law. Why? The provisions of the applicable Expropriation Act would require the expropriation user to pay these persons the market value. In order to avoid it, I doubt it, I don't doubt it, Prime Minister, the author of the regulation invented this provision that hides a very serious trap in his language that probably won't notice most of the public, or even those of the professional ones, because it's artificially camouflaged. In fact, he is pleased that these persons have been formally granted the right to compensation for both the facility and the land, but with a small condition that the right to use has been acquired, not that those persons have acquired it, but that it has been acquired at all at any time before them by the burden of legal work. These persons have acquired their right to use cargo law, the work of a purchase facility that belonged to the right to use land, which is a burden of legal work, etc. That's exactly the trap you can't see from a regular law-reading. This is the first example. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: What is the dispute here? I don't have enough time. The competent authority shall immediately, at the latest within eight days of receipt of the declaration referred to in Article 6 of this Article, and within eight days, with the fulfilment of other conditions, adopt a solution to the expropriation of immovableity. These are the rules of maltene, someone evil would say via court, not the regular procedure of expropriation. That shows your efficiency, and I can't go into the cadastre to seduce things after three or four years. The most interesting is Article 15, Mr. Prime Minister, very important. In Article 15, the last attitude says one thing that is really unclear to me. You're an excellent lawyer, and I'm sure you'll know how to explain this to me. The final account between investors and Belgrade City will be made after the completion of the construction of all buildings in the scope of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24790	Mr. Stefanovic, will you leave time for your colleagues, since you have under 10 minutes left, and there are more reported colleagues of yours? Just to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24791	Okay. Will you let me carry on? So, the final reckoning, Mr. Becic, between investors and Belgrade City will be made up after the construction is completed, respected citizens, of all facilities covered by the plan's document. Does this mean, well-intentioned, that this position says it is possible that the investor will leave the project without finishing each of the planned facilities on that plot? What does the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade do then, and what are our obligations, and do you see that there is a danger of us paying without them ending it? Finally, we fear this investor for making the same thing in Libya. Here, you can see what Libyan "Belgrade on Water" looks like (the ambassador shows photos). Then let's move on, Cairo. This is Cairo on the water, respected citizens. So none of what was announced was built, and it's the same firm. Then in Kenya, respected citizens. Here, you see, nothing was built. Then Erbil, Kurdistan, Iraqi Kurdistan. Here, take a look. Even so, they only made one garage out of car salons. Then in Pakistan, Syria, Nigeria, India, respected citizens, they did nothing. Here, you see what it looks like, looks like “Belgrade on Water” etc. I'm not saying they're insecure, I'm just expressing the concern that Serbian citizens are taking here and asking why was this necessary? Why wasn't it done in some other way, as we suggested? Why could the law and the Constitution be broken? Why isn't the profession consulted, and are you aware that the consequences of this kind of work if they go bad, Prime Minister, we'll have a clean salary, I agree, we'll have water and electricity and gas and traffic, I agree, but the law has been broken, the constitution is broken, the plan doesn't exist, the architect doesn't exist, there's nothing and someone has to answer for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24792	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24793	I listened very carefully to you, Mr. Stefanovic, very carefully, and I realized that you don't understand anything. And what you were reading, you didn't even understand what you were reading. Do you know what a cargo job is? Do you know what property is? Of course someone has to have property so he can get a refund. There's nothing controversial about it, completely clean, nobody saw anything in it, but someone who wrote it to you to read it, and you have no idea what you've read, thinking that nobody here is a lawyer and that he doesn't know that he answers anything about what you've been talking about here. You have read nothing, except that you have dealt with hypocritical flossules as usual – I am not against it, but answer the citizens. I'll answer to you, not to the citizens. The citizens don't support you. I'll answer you. You, Mr. Stefanovic, participated in making those contracts that cost this country dearly, which protected private interests, private interests and some tycoon interests. You were directly involved in these negotiations. You brought "lex specialis" to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Stefanovic, which protected private interests that we do not know where you did something. We don't even know where your cables are, where your pipes are, where your money is. We don't know. We've never seen that before. You voted it in 2009. You have also participated in these negotiations in the most direct way. The people of Serbia and the money that you're a little left, a little right, so the left doesn't know what the right is doing, and the right is even less what the left is doing, but the people's pair doesn't have Mr. Stefanovic. That's what you did, and don't auto-project it to transfer it to someone else. As for cutting and cleaning, please take your hair one ten days, train, and show me that you have learned to mow, it will be very useful for you. I'll give you a bra, learn to sharpen your hair. As for the value and the Expanse Act, I don't know what to tell you. You understood nothing in what you read, the dangers you saw only you and no one else and no one understood you or your colleagues. No one understands what you mean. If you have something to explain to us in greater detail, I'm really asking you to succeed, so that we can understand you understand that we understand what your intention was. About the danger of leaving the investor after leaving Cairo, so they announced it 12 days ago in Cairo. 12 days ago, they signed a contract at 145 billion, 12 days ago. Well, he won't get into business in two years. Where I don't know, something didn't end, and I know where they are. Ended the most buildings in the world, the best buildings in the world, the sixth wealth in the world of all Arabs. Whether they end up here or not, we'll see, but we'll work and fight to finish. I don't know what bothers you that we're going to solve both the water and the hot water and the pipeline, the interceptor question that's not cost, but investment, we're going to solve it all. I don't know why it bothers you, and I don't see what the problem is. You say – we have models on one model is one, on the other, that if you look a little bit better you'll see the similarity between these models sometimes. I've been watching your models all over all the competitions you're telling me about here. You haven't been able to realize any of the competitions. Your mouths are full of competitions, when you need "lex specialis" for private interests, then bring it in one day, without any debate and by emergency procedure. Then come and give us a lecture here. It's not enough that we showed you in five members that you've changed the rules and filled someone's pockets. Who knows who it's all about. I have no proof of that, only I know that someone's pockets are full, and the citizens of Serbia are not your "lex specialis". This is what the citizens of Serbia will see. I invited you to come along with us to participate, not to prove yourself and show that you know nothing and that you can't read a legal norm. There's nothing questionable about that legal norm. Absolutely nothing controversial. That could have been said to you by any student of legal-burotechnics school, not by a law school student, Mr Stefanovic, that I teach you something. I do this voluntarily and free of charge, so that you don't worry, and I can always give you advice in such a way that you don't care at all. As far as aesthetic value is concerned, I'm not like you. I don't understand that. I understand these jobs and how something fell 45%, you destroyed and destroyed a construction industry that didn't even exist. Now we lift her slowly and we lift her up. As you make up about how someone eight billion is in debt. It's not. You've been making a budget for 2012, you've raised public debt from 26% to 61%, you've led us to a level of employment of 26%. Is today 20, 21, or 17, or I don't know how much, that's another thing. It's not funny. It's accurate. That's accurate data. As far as these are concerned, Gustav Eifeld was a criminal, so it's possible. The important thing is that you're honest, and you're famous for it. I've already told you about this contest, none of which worked. We've seen your drawings, your pictures, your photos, but you've never done anything. Next, please don't worry, I'll provide you with not only a bra on your gift and hair, just to practice for seven days to learn to cut hair. As for the elections, you say, the elections are coming, and they have failed. That's what you do when you lose the election, the election doesn't work. Every election you lose failed. Then the elections here will never succeed, but how can I tell you, elections succeed when democratic procedures are respected. I think we've had every election here since 1990. I think everyone has succeeded with less or more objections, and that's one democratic fluid we've managed to reach. But your competitions never worked, none of them worked, nothing at all, for any major project because you never had an investor, because you never thought you were serious about it. Because you only thought you'd buy three days in the paper of someone's attention and how you'd get someone's eyes dirty. You say, "You are asking for everything." I come here, so I answer in front of you, and I answer every question, I don't have a problem. Do I wonder about everything? I don't think I'm wondering about many, many things. Do many call on me? Unfortunately, they call and abuse it. To me, Mr. Stefanovic, unlike you who went out 20 times today, and you're an MP and this is your home, I'm the Prime Minister, and I never left this room once for one single second. Not for one single second since this morning since 11.00 hours after I entered the O.R., I haven't left the O.R. for one single second. It is possible that I am the only one who has not left the room for a second because I respect this high house, respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I do not find it difficult to work. If I'm wondering about everything, thank you for that, too. You say – I heard that people would make some cultural content. Well, we'd like cultural content but you wouldn't give it to us. Well, we haven't been able to see the National Museum in ten years. Well, we couldn't see the Museum of Contemporary Art. But don't worry, Serbian citizens will see the Museum of Contemporary Art opened and renovated by the end of this year. The National Museum for a year and a half, completely renovated, open. Some others, Mr Stefanovic, will do this for you and all other citizens of Serbia and do not worry at all. As far as these contents are concerned. As far as the parks in this project are concerned, I've said it many times today, 14% are total green areas. We've predicted four parks, and we've paid particular attention to that. We'll make it some kind of literally green oasis and people will be, I'm sure, extremely happy. If my dreams are Serbia's citizens' nightmare, I must say that the public you've arranged for us was more than the worst nightmare. And it's hard for someone to dream and think that it's possible for such a nightmare to happen to him again and that it's possible for his future to be destroyed the way you destroyed our future. I apologize to you for having to react to whether or not someone will leave or not what you suspect, because all you do is suspect something. Well, I doubt it, too. I doubt whatever comes to mind, but I'm pushing forward and I'm looking to push something out, let's finish something. From that moaning, from that nagging, crying everyday, maybe this will be, and maybe it won't, we won't take our hair in our hands again, and we won't even know what it is. I beg you, once again, to take that hair, I'll sharpen it for you, show you how to sharpen and learn how to do it. And, on the other hand, and if they leave, we've done a big thing, at least it won't be a rat's gain, a garbage dump, I'd say, a dump site, as it was today, "Belgrade on water". As for the total figure we talked about, it's not nine billion as you talked about, in the worst case scenario for Belgrade with everything moving the bus station, which I also think is not a cost but an investment, it will be like I told you 272 million. I think it's something that's very important that they know. I'm perfectly suited to you at all, but unfortunately you never wanted to hear it. You didn't want to hear anything. You didn't want to accept the idea that you were involved in something. The only thing you've been showing is how someone's gonna pay dearly. Don't threaten, as God please no more. You threatened us with the Ukrainian script, Mr. Stefanovic. You threatened us with the Ukrainian script in the campaign, we saw what was going on in Ukraine, don't bring us any more Ukrainian or any other scenario. Serbian citizens want to rule, those who have dreams and who want to work, not those who only know how to criticise and who will nothing else, nor are they ready to change. At least those who aren't ready, first take a look at themselves in the mirror, then the other one. I make mistakes every day, and I don't mind admitting it, but I'm going to make up for it and make up for it. You look, you've never done anything wrong. You're a sinless man. You only destroyed our country that for years we will struggle to get out of the mud and that terrible state in which you brought the country to us, but trust Mr Stefanovic and don't worry, we will bring the country back to a safe path and Serbia has a good future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24794	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24795	The Rules of Procedure, Madam President, Article 106(1), and I mean Mr Stefanovic's exposure. I, my dear friends, am shocked because I thought that Mr. Stefanovic was the last to criticise, and perhaps the first to praise the project "Belgrade on Water", because within the framework and the "Beograd on Water" series, there will be one of the largest shopping malls in the Balkans and in it, here I solemnly promise to Mr. Stefanovic, will be the store "Prad" and will not have to go to any world destinations, in order to buy him favorite shoes that cost him several average salaries in Serbia, which cost, and as much money as it takes for Serbian citizens to survive even a few months. Here, he will be able to buy these "Pradine" shoes in the middle of Belgrade, and he does not have to criticise it, because he will have a much easier life. Speaking of the famous aesthetics, Mr. Stefanovic and I have pictures. Dear citizens of Serbia, here's what Mr. Stefanovic's famous aesthetic wants from Belgrade and a picture like this from Belgrade. You can't see this in Novi Sad, you can't see it in Vranjska Banja, but this is what people who come to Belgrade see. Here are pictures, a cemetery of ships, a cemetery of wagons, these are images we don't want ever to see in Belgrade, Serbia, but these are some aesthetics, DS that have brought us into such misery, and now they want to preserve something like that. This law will change that, and for that reason, don't talk about the prices of apartments, don't talk about something that isn't the subject of this law. I want to delegate the biggest public interest that will provide the "Belgrade on Water" project to hire those people you left out of work, Mr. Stefanovic, you and your policy have left 400,000 people out of work, and now 13,000 who will be employed under "Belgrade on Water" and 20,000 in the framework of a construction operation, you want to further destroy their future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24796	I thank you, MP. The 106th article only says that we're talking about the agenda point, and you're more of a replicator, so I'm not even going to put this to the vote. I must give the replica to Borislav Stefanovic, he will be angry with me. Can you, Vladimir Pavicevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24797	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests from the Government of Serbia, Prime Minister and Minister and Minister, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, you have just violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 108 in which he writes in his first position – the order of the National Assembly is the President, and in this case the President of the National Assembly, the Honored Gentlemen. Here's to clarify how you violated the Rules of Procedure and acted, I think, biasedly here chairing the National Assembly session. Mr Babic has just reported to the Rules of Procedure and intervened on article 106, which writes – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. This told us that Mr. Stefanovic or Mr. Vukic were not talking about the agenda point. I listened carefully here to the previous speakers and concluded that they both spoke about what is the agenda point, and you were respected by the presidents of the National Assembly and you had the obligation to warn Mr Babic, that when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, it must explain how the Rules of Procedure has been violated, not that it abuses the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that it uses that time, to speak of something that is not our agenda point and thus prevents you from holding order at the session of the National Assembly, respected President Gojkovic. I think it is also now appropriate to declare a warning to Mr Babic so that it will not happen that by the end of our debate today he again tries to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Please do. That would be, I mean an impartial chairmanship of the National Assembly session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24798	They would be right as regards Article 108 if I had applied measures to other MPs who appeared in the Rules of Procedure today and used them for replication. Since these MPs have very little time, because they have few MPs, I skipped it, so I can take two minutes, let's say, as the mildest punishment to the SNS parliamentary group, I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure and answer it, so since I haven't applied such measures today precisely because of the importance of the law, I'm not in this case, even though the MP has replicated. We're all aware of that, but everyone's doing it today, so we're a little bit flexible to hear about the law between violations of the Rules of Procedure. Is that how we can arrange for it to still be in some democratic tone today? You have the right to a replica? Borislav Stefanovic is out? Oh, no, there you are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24799	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not going to react to an MP with meat therapy, but I'm going to ask you, with mesotherapy. So like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24800	I didn't understand. Ask me something?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24801	No, nothing. So, on 18.3.2015, "Belgrade on Water" will be completed in four years, when the last facility, Aleksandar Vukic, will be built on RTS. Today you say phases A and B, respected citizens, 10 to 15 years and all objects will be built. However, I must note, despite all the insults and what we are constantly expecting, what else will the Prime Minister, but, you have no idea, your authority has ruined, respected citizens, see if there is no answer, just an insult, no result. You've been in power for three years. I'm asking you nicely, Mr. Vukic, the Honorable Prime Minister, before you resign, which I think you must do, so you can cut down the meadows in Serbia, and I've cut them a lot more than you do, to ask you something, whether, as well as how you comment on a member of the law that you are proposing today, which says that until the last facility is finished, there will be no accounting between city authorities and investors. Is that because you told you 17 times today it might not be over? Do you order Serbian citizens, respected citizens we bring "alex specialis", but we may not finish. So 17 times you said that today. You'd better count it, your insecurity in your own project, than when someone went to the bathroom here to get out. That's what it's all about. That's what you say before you resign, that you dream of your dreams, that you're dreaming...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24802	Thank you. You've used your time to replicate and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24803	That's what you tell us, then, when it comes to a member of the 15th Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24804	I'm glad you understood that on Article 8, you didn't understand anything, and I'm going to explain it to you on Article 15. It's about their investment, their money. We can also make an amendment, because I see you didn't understand it and I don't insult you at all, I just see that you don't know that, Mr. Stefanovic, and they know that I'm right. They all know I'm right. Your party colleagues know I'm right, you don't, you really don't know anything about it. We'll make an amendment. Make an amendment so we can cut to six months, it's not a problem, that we can control it, by every object, in every situation, we don't have any problem, but this shows me that you didn't understand the spirit of the law or the spirit of the project at all, and you don't know who gives the money, or you understood any of it. It's hard for us if you're criticizing us, Mr. Stefanovic. Since you were talking about some insults, I didn't say any insults. I said phase 1a will be over in four years. What people will be able to see and what's most important to them, that's that tower, that's two towers, that's that big shopping mall, that's the main thing with parks and avenues. It will be completed within four years. Maybe three and a half years, maybe four and a half. I don't think that's the most important thing, and I don't think you're saying anything right now because you've been saying it's fairy tales and it's fiction. Every word you've said, I've tried to answer. When you say, how much do apartments cost? I don't know how much apartments cost. I don't even know how much it's gonna cost. As Prime Minister, I'd like them to cost a lot, I'd like them to cost a lot, because that's why the property tax is going to be bigger, so we're going to charge all the other taxes a lot more than we would normally charge, and that's what a country needs to be interested in, that's what the Prime Minister of a country should be interested in. I am pleased to be interested in such things, and I am pleased that we will be able to achieve certain results on this matter. The insult you have brought to Mr. Babic's expense, let it go to your cheek, because you do it all the time, you are never able to accept the political ring and the political game, because you think it's good enough only where you can tie your hands to your opponent and get into that game. As you can see, I'm here and I come most often from all the Prime Ministers because I'm not afraid of the ring and the game, I'm not afraid of taking punches, it's a political job, in a political sense, and you're giving it away. It's fair, it's a gentleman's fight. That about mesotherapy, etc., you know, as I would say, says more about you than about Babic, much more about Mr. Stefanovic, if the mesotherapy is your analysis of "Beograda na Voda" I congratulate you on it, it was the most accurate and successful Mr. Stefanovic today that you presented about "Belgrade on Water", everything else was completely pointless. Thank you for throwing me away. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24805	Ambassador Stefanovic, do you really think you should replicate? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Yes. I really didn’t want to, as chairman to remind you of that, because I have a feeling of unpleasantness when someone is talking in general about some private matters of our own, and I didn’t want to remind you in general that some private matters have nothing to do with the law we're talking about, because we could all talk about private matters. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Are you talking to me or Grandma, as you look at me? ) Is the bar so tossing out of the bench, or? I'd like to ask you to answer the word politely, there are people who don't know, just what it looks like in the pubs. How can I tell you, but I'm saying that you don't have the right to a replica, I don't know why you'd have the right to a replica or a privilege. He reported before the prime minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and Nikola Selakovic of ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24806	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. So this is not about any empty stories or fairy tales, just over a year ago in the Republic of Serbia elections were held in Serbia, which does not remember, and in these SNS elections headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia was elected a little less than a year ago. The one who heads the government and the government that is today coming before the MPs in the National Assembly with this bill has absolute legitimacy to come up with a proposal for a project that has qualified for a pre-election campaign and voted for by citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade. This bill is the answer to every secret contract that's been concluded in some previous period and we still can't see. So here today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have a public bill that we can discuss, in principle, on every part of it. When someone doesn't understand and keep repeating several times his members, we're here to explain. When you want to understand the law, you take the whole law. When you want to understand the attitude of one member, you take it and read the whole article. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here it's torn out of context one attitude, and that's the last attitude of one member, and when you take the last attitude and you read it without anything previous, then you can twist the whole story in the opposite direction. What does the attitude say before that and what does five attitudes say before that? Each of the honourable MPs will take and read, and it is a member who essentially says that the investor will build public facilities and say the local self-government unit can prescribe that works on the construction of the building land, including building the area of public purpose, as well as the building of public property facilities realised by the investor on the basis of the contract, are recognised as the settlement of the total obligation on the name of the contribution to the construction of the building land. Would you like a concrete example? That means the investor can pick up at the Sava amphitheater and school and home of health and kindergarten for our children. He can pick up the museum. You know, he could probably have been a casino as a public object in your time. Then he certainly could, since your public interest seemed to have come down to something like that, to secret contracts that we still can't see, which we have no idea whether they're based on the law or not, and your right to challenge our right here today to pass a law based on which a whole society will behave. You say we're not against investors, we're not against Arab investors. Not three and a half billion, a third of a billion people who want to bring here and invest deserve to regulate our rights and obligations in a special legal manner in the event of such an investment. The Latins still said, "Life of the law writes." This is a special situation. Give me one country in the region that has such an investor and the possibility of realising such an investment. Why didn't you say what we were losing? Where you say what we're losing, except that two and a half years ago, one good part, and a year ago, he lost power in the country, he lost power in the capital, now he's getting air conditioned well to lose power in the northern province, and he's looking at every way to challenge something good that's being done for the state. Did they get you, the ones who attacked this law and this project here, did they get a call from the Prime Minister? Get your people into this. No, they're not. That's right, dear Mr. Veselinovic, it's not party stuff, that's why we're inviting you. Enter something of national interest, something that will change Serbia from its roots. Show that democracy and the political size you're talking about so much. When you first notice there's something going on against the law, and you come out and say it. No, you don't want that either. You know, every one of us who's in power and who's in a certain position gets criticism and that's normal, that's okay, that's proof that we're working. The one who doesn't do anything, no one's even criticizing him. I'm proud to be part of this Serbian government that's been dating something that neither of our governments has come out in the past 40 or more years. This shows that Serbia is changing in a good and positive direction. If someone didn't understand it, it's his right, and mine is, as someone who understands politics, to say, if someone doesn't want to understand this project, one in a series of major efforts by the Serbian government and the fulfillment of the pre-election promises, because we're with this, and you, Mr. President, have come out with this in our election campaign... If someone doesn't understand it, I can only say it – well that's great, next time it won't be above the censorship. We're gonna make this project happen and you're gonna see it. Special situations require special laws. Serbia is fortunate that the only one in the Balkans has such an opportunity, something good to do for himself, for its capital, for the citizens. I know you don't believe it, and the more you don't believe it, the better we'll do it. You didn't even believe that you could recover JAT and build Er Serbia, so it was done. You didn't believe it could be put on the feet of the Iron Man and that someone would come and start working in it and invest their capital. You didn't believe it either, and it happens. You probably don't believe that new trucks, the best ones made in the Balkans, will come out of Priboj. I believe it, and I'll see it. Well, we'll see the cities in the Sava amphitheater. You know, Miloshu took a lot of moving merchants and settled them right in this part of the current Boulevard to move the gunpowder from Savamallah to Tashmajdan, out of town. He did it. We'll make it out of the Sava amphitheater and the cemetery of the wagons, clean up the cemetery of the ships. Not only the cemetery, the first Serbian steamer has stood there for decades and failed, the best attraction can be made. In today's mentioned Petrograd, the Aurora ship is a ship where everyone goes to visit it, which they wouldn't go to our Kolubara when we take it tomorrow. You know, he needs brains, he needs courage, and he needs will and a little talk, and a lot of work. One who's not clear can criticize, can talk. I support, I like to hear a different opinion, but if he is smart, he will watch and learn how to run the state, how to take care of the citizens and how Serbia is returning to the place of the avant-garde in this part of Europe that it has always belonged to and has always been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24807	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24808	I'll try to be as concise as possible. I'd like to say where lucky that the previous government or previous city government has brought at least one such investor, even if it increases the value of its company. This increased the value of some other private companies owned by DS people, but there was no increase in value in the city of Belgrade or in Belgrade had some of it. I don't agree with the Prime Minister in one thing. In one of the previous speeches, the prime minister said -- she didn't know what the right hand was doing. I think both left and right knew exactly what they were doing, and they were doing it. Excessive, says one colleague. I am sorry that they did not listen to what MP Vladimir Marinkovic said, a man who explained in detail where all these people invested, and that only a shopping mall in Dubai has 80 million visitors annually. Just a shopping mall. That's what got me into the debates, because a couple of times they're mentioned in the negative connotation of those shopping malls. Now I'm thinking, in Serbia, before 2012, only one man could build shopping malls. His name was, his name was still Miroslav Miskovic. Now that man doesn't build shopping malls anymore, but if anyone else wants to build shopping malls, you get some criticism right away. Now, whether it's connected or not, people will conclude. But one more important question is, how much does a lost profit cost us because nothing has been done in the last 15 years, say, just in this space? How much less taxes, how much less taxis, excise, how many less tourists, how much less generated income in the economy because for 15 years no one wanted to put one of those aces in there? It's a question that someone should be able to calculate well and tell us how irresponsible it is for the people who ran the city and the state at that time, because it's an exact thing that can be calculated and to show why we're here today. Why is the cemetery, which Mr Babic and everyone else who participated in the debate today, the ships were a symbol when Mr Giuliani came to Belgrade when he could not believe that this was what the best part of Belgrade looked like. He couldn't believe it. He says -- people, I had a horror in Manhattan, graphite, dirt, I had to clean it up with the police, and what I saw here was scandalous. The man who made New York what he is today. There was a movie called "The Awesome in the Street of Brestova", which was translated by our own, a nightmare on the street of Brestova. That nightmare was a wonderful thing according to what people had from 2008 to 2012. Two hundred seventy-seven jobs were lost daily. Two hundred seventy-seven families lost their jobs daily in this country. It was a nightmare that, unfortunately, they lived. I think we've talked enough about corruption today, but if the MPs insist, I can do more. But I think people saw it well and never came back that year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24809	The People's Messenger Milutin Mrkonjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24810	I'm about to go to sleep. I'm sorry. It's been a long discussion. I didn't expect it personally. Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister Vukic has shown in one, for me a new way, what political will means when entering such projects. These days I often get to explain to younger and older colleagues what it means. Therefore, the commitment to enter such investment projects requires full commitment, the willingness to sacrifice for such projects. I explained several times today and yesterday and the day before what happened to the corridors. Why didn't we do more? And I said the same thing again. There was no political will after October 5th, and it was built as much as possible. I thank the President. He explained it here today. I have to go back. I will not go to Prince Milos and Prince Michael, but I will return to Branko Pesic again and thank the prime minister for mentioning him. When the corridors were routed through Serbia, as European corridors, and then traffic strategies were made in Belgrade. So, Gazela, it has already been said of, the Belgrade Node project, which is not only Prokop station, but also 50km of track, 20km of tunnels, five-six stations, etc., and the first phase of the metro project. Unfortunately, various political opportunities have conditioned, not to mention now, how and what we're going to build. I never criticise, I advise that to you, as my younger colleagues, those who have worked in this time, provided there was no crime. Respect that. Always consider that there were difficulties, but this government has a chance to complete most of these projects and that's how you should understand. You are completing the most significant strategic projects of Serbia and you have a chance to prove yourself on these jobs. One thing that didn't bother me in this discussion, that's what the Prime Minister said first, and then most ministers, hire and include all the potentials professionally, that's my experience. When a man deals with development in Serbia, he must understand that he will encounter two kinds of resistance. One is ignorance, which is a minor problem, you convince people, and the other is obstruction of interest. That's what you said yourself here, and a few debaters, and you have to be prepared for that kind of engagement. That's why I'm saying, hire more people who have experience, who do. I am speaking for the first time today in the Assembly, so I am as excited as the prime minister, because one of the projects I have done, I am proud to say, for 40 years, in various political moments and stages, always driving, and I also spoke to Vukić twice before and after October 5th, I should think about it. You have these great people, brilliant engineers, and Minister Vujovic said it nicely from Mihajl Mitrovica, who is a man of age, through Branislav Jovin, Joce Katanic engineers, these younger generations, architects of Brana Mitrovica, etc. They're all people who can help, and that's one of the reasons I'm going to say, they want to get involved in these projects. Since President Vukic has given his hand with them today, I propose to Mr Mali, it is good that there is a company involved. Put in this company capable people, capable managers, and, of course, engineers and young and professional people who need to do this, and that will certainly be Belgrade's success on water. I'm convinced it's a project of the future and I'm behind it. I'm not going to talk about the law, they're going to talk about my younger colleagues in the end line, we're all in the party, we're all infected with that idea, and not just with the idea of Europol or Belgrade on the water. I have to tell Wolfie that, Europol was the name of that time, '96. years, but they'll talk about the law. The law is one stage in the realization of such large projects. It's a much more important organization. Set up a real organization with professional people in the profession, with politicians in the policy-related work, because the people need to talk, Vukic knows it well, and you will have success. Once again, I thank you and call for general mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24811	Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Prime Minister, and the Honorable Minister. I will vote against this bill because I believe this project is built on water by Belgrade, Mr. Vukic, an anti-modernisation project and allow me, gentlemen, to at least try to explain my position here. Mr. Vukic today during the debate said that he did not expect here any resistance to modernization, such as: existed when the electricity was introduced or the railway was built. Thus, the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Vukic, told us that what was a criticism of railway construction, at the end of the 19th century in Serbia, is similar or comparable to what is a criticism of Belgrade's water construction project. I, dear Mr. Vukic, have here my stenographic notes from the session of the 1881 Serbian Parliament, on which the topic was a loan, construction and exploitation contract for our railway, gentlemen. Well, I've read that, Mr. Wolfie, entirely. Do you gentlemen know what can be found? So do you know that our people's MPs were then drawn, honored gentlemen, by what the train looks like, a large number of people didn't know what it looked like and of course, Mr. Vukic, that it was modernization, but I understood that according to this analogy you're proposing, and that the project "Belgrade on Water" implies building of residential buildings, or objects, shopping malls, that you want to tell us that the MPs here today don't have to be referred to what a residential building is, so we need to be drawn here, or what a shopping mall is. Mr. Vukic, in order to know what modernization is, I mean, it's not enough to hold on to a summary of a book or a title, Mr. Vukic, we all have to read the stenographic notes and the Libnica, Mr. Wolf. That's one thing. The second thing, ladies and gentlemen, prominent architects are against the construction project "Belgrade on Water". The word of the profession is important to me. Here, for example. Mr. Marin Kresic, he is with us at the New Party President of the Urbanism Council. He argues, and he convinced me that the project to build "Belgrade on Water" in the architectural, Mr. Vukic, urban and morphological sense is a foreign body in Belgrade's tissue. Mr. Jovin, mentioned here, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic mentioned him, Mr. Vukic, you mentioned him, so Mr. Jovin claims that this part of the Sava amphitheater area should be accessible to citizens without housing. I believe that we should be more careful both as a legislative authority and as an executive power compared to what the word of the profession is, gentlemen. I'm surprised, for example. Minister for European Integration, who has intervened here on one occasion in the actions of Mr Senic, how not to intervene at the cabinet sessions when prominent people from the profession are heard loudly, but rather to close their eyes, and it is said so, etc. I'm so surprised. It is precisely because it covers Mrs Joksimovic's portfolio regarding also respecting certain principles and principles and expertise, etc. Or, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished professor of economics and respected businessmen are also against this project, Mr. Wolfich. Here's Professor Myodrag Rabbit, you know what he says? It says -- you can submerge Serbia's public finances system with the "Belgrade on Water" project, Mr. Vukicu. Mr. Vukicu, a prominent businessman who supported you in last year's elections, Milan Knezevic asked me to ask you a question. The question is, who will withdraw the loans? Who will be guaranteed a loan payment and will the land go under mortgage, as collateral for the withdrawn loans of investors? Dear gentlemen, Mr. Wolfie, these are all attitudes, please be heard, distinguished people, experts from our country. How come I don't have an answer, Mr. Vukic, to their arguments in the government and not to the Assembly during today's debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24813	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24814	Dear Mr. Pavicevic, I'll try to answer. I've never read scripts and book summarys. That's why I was known at law school, probably as one of the dumber ones than some of the experts I know today, who always read six or seven pages. I had to learn all 600 or 700 well, so they never considered me smart enough. So I've never consumed a book summary. I thought I was making a joke so I could talk about this anti-modernization approach, but I'll answer your specifics. You may smile to see what it looks like around certain remarks. How do we take down the public finances system? Can you explain to me how you and Professor Rabbit can take down the public finances system? Just so someone can explain it to me in any way. I still can't, I've tried, I've studied for two years, I've had 10 from the political economy with Professor Labus at Law School, I've worked for two years, I've been studying and reading books every day, I can't figure out how Professor Vujović can take down a system of public finances with this project? I'd like to have any explanation. As for Mr Milan Knezevic, I will answer very seriously, as it is a respected businessman. I was afraid that another businessman who owns land around here got from your party you went to the election with. Milan Knezevic is a respected businessman and this prominent businessman said that the land would be collateral for loans? He won't, because there's no credit. There's one more thing I want to tell you. Milan Knezevic understands all of this perfectly, because Milan Knezevic, a few days ago or weeks ago, I just met at a dinner in the building "Beograda na Voda", Geozavoda, he admits "Belgrade on Water" and he sees great what we did in "Belgrade on Water". He said good-bye to Mr. Knezevic and, I'd say, as a decent man, I'd like to make a drink at the table. He had a very distinguished official at his desk. I'm sure Mr. Milan Knezevic understands this project perfectly. One more thing, for those of you who say it's a foreign body, for that expert of yours I have no comment on, but we'll consider that, too, Mr. Pavicevic. What I think is much more important, is that all the prominent architects you have, all the people who know it and with the gratitude of Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic for what he said, I think it would be very important for us to create a business organization. That's why I want to repeat my call again, Mr. Pavicevic, for all these people, for some I've heard, for some I haven't heard, it says, of course, that if I wasn't expert on that area, which is quite fine, but I would ask you to include those people. It's not always the necessary criticism, it's necessary that if we can change something ourselves, make something better, and I'm sure we can do it. The remarks I've been listening to, and I've prepared here answers to every question the Architectural Academy has raised, to everyone. It was very easy for me to prepare answers to that, without hiring great experts. They didn't seem to be trying hard enough to find serious objections, but we found certain shortcomings and we'll try to make things right in the future. That's why I ask you and once again I call upon you to include every objection that is serious, to include part of the people in this project at the same time, because I am convinced that you love Belgrade as much as we do, and I don't want anyone to take advantage of it or anyone to be denied that kind of love. But I thought this was an important and valuable project because it will certainly change Belgrade's appearance and that people who are market-related see it. Look in the former Zagreb, I mean today's Koče Popovića street, the square is about 300 to 400 euros higher than it was two years or a year ago. The price rises, when it goes, on Kosančić's wreath and everywhere in the area of "Biograda on Water", everywhere in each place. I think that shows enough how people think the market will behave in the future. So, I am convinced that this whole part, all from Western Vrachar, from that part of the Savawere to Calemegdan, to that part of the Old Town, will benefit greatly from that, as will New Belgrade, as well as from all of Serbia. But first, don't forget what's most important, we'll do the job, and the investor brings clean 150m euros. So 150m euros as their equivalent, their 150m euros in cash that we spend. It's an investment that's huge for us, which is of immense importance to us. The number of employees raising a construction operation and I'm absolutely sure it will have a great success. I invite you, if you weren't in the Geo-Indicator building, to go see. You were. I'm glad that you were, then you saw how this building is today arranged and how great success has been achieved by providing the donation of the United Emirates and the "Elemar" or what is already called the Alabama firm, Muhammad Albabra, because I think it has shown how we can change the face of Belgrade, how it can look incomparably beautiful and how we can be part of Europe, if you will, at least in the best part of the world. Anyone who's been there can confirm that, and I see my friend Milan Knezevic thinking the same thing, so I'm sure we'll meet again in that same place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24815	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24816	Thank you. Dear Mr. Pavicevic, whenever I'm in the National Assembly, I expect you to mention me. It's a really established practice, and I'm very honored. Mr. Pavicevic, I, as a professor, really cannot tell you some stories unfounded by facts, and I will refer to facts. I suggest you write, with what I'm about to tell you, one contribution to the history of anti-modernism and anti-modernization projects in the event of Belgrade landing on the river. Here's why. Belgrade's general urbanist plan of 1923, the Belarusian architect, Grigori Pavlovic Kovalevski, envisions an increase in coastal housing and business, I suppose anti-modernisational, as people also knew about apartments and business spaces in 1923. I mean, it's not any innovation in the technological sense. In 1929, famous architect Nikola Dobrović predicted a bridge, which was his focus. So nothing new, I suppose, is also anti-modernizing. The next big jump, third, was in 1976, the general urban plan, cultural, business, tourist center, also the same qualification. The fourth, changes and additions of GUP was made by Konstantin Kostic in 1984, the Sava amphitheater is intended for work and housing. The fifth major international competition for New Belgrade, the 1986 Sava amphitheater, ecological, economic and other corners, and Milan Lojanica led the team. I'm guessing nothing special is new, too. Maybe the ecological domain was modernizing. I guess there's something here that treats the ecological dimension now in 2015. The sixth, the idea of "Europolis" in 1995, was done by the Institute of CIP, of course, a combination of already existing ideas and "Varos na Voda" in 2006, residential, business, tourist and catering facilities. I've made a real effort to give you a very precise and tax-based statement. As we can see, unfortunately, here they all were anti-modernizing, this is really a contribution to the history of anti-modernization projects. So I really believe you weren't serious when you said that. I tried to give you some facts that would convince you that you shouldn't have been serious when you said that. On the other hand, as far as the profession is concerned, you're absolutely right, the word waist is always valued and respected. It's a little strange when you have a lot of shared opinions within a profession, which means that even the profession is not immune to interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24817	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24818	In Serbia whenever you start to do something, then you always get a rescue solution – don't accidentally do anything. Just keep it the way it was, 'cause that's exactly how it suits us. There is nothing more beautiful, there is no better access to the Sava amphitheater than to break through the pack of stray dogs and avoid snakes and rats. Well, staying, that's for the best, that's modern. It's now the most modern, it's ecological practice, it's complete nature. It doesn't happen to change anything. That should be organic. That's right, organic snakes, organic rats, organic pack of stray dogs. Don't happen to have someone start raising my building. We pretend not to understand, but we understand, of course, how much this project would help, not only Belgrade and Serbia, but also our construction industry, but not just in terms of getting a job, but learn what it doesn't know now. Our construction industry has lost step with the world, we don't know that we do what the world does. This is a chance to learn from the best. If that's all it is, it'll be enough. Do we want access? That'd be enough. Since I hear they're asking who's gonna pay back the loan, do you know what the secret is? There's no credit, so there's nothing to come back for. A foreign investor brings his own money. Unacceptable? Here, says Minister Vujovic – this is very unusual. Yes, but, as we can see, for some, it's totally unacceptable. I want to change this practice that in Serbia, it's best not to do anything. I think we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24819	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Gojkovic, I hope to have the right to three replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24821	You won't be entitled to three replicas, only two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24822	Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, I will then, in two minutes, if you do not allow me three, try to put an answer to three previous speeches. I can't imagine anyone seriously building a housing building in the 21st century treating it as a modernization step, as you do tonight, Mr. Vulin. That's unimaginable to me. The second thing, Mrs Joksimovic, will be my great pleasure to discuss in the context of the amendment debate on this bill. I'm ready. On 17 members, I have prepared 17 amendments, with 72 slides, respected Mrs Joksimovic, to hold a debate in our National Assembly. Mr. Vukicu, I find it inappropriate for the Prime Minister to call one man a prominent architect of Marina Kresic your expert from your party. Mr. Vukic, we should choose words when we talk about respectable professional people, and you spoke of Mr. Kresic like that. I agree, you've been a very good student of law school. The President of the New Party Council, Vesna Rakic Vednelic, confirmed to me that you were a hardworking student and were given the highest grade, but that is why Mrs Rakić Vednelic, too, is asking how the bill's proposals, which she, as a respected law professor, is coming into the assembly, I think, say if you don't think so, says there is doubt about constitutionality. It feels like there's no respect for the right here, that the Constitution and rule of law are not respected, Mr. Wolf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24823	The word is Alexander Vucic, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24824	It's true, Mr. Pavicevic, I took civil-process law at Vesna Rakić Vedinelic, I think it was at the age of four, I got a ten. She's an exceptional teacher, she knows the law well. We were never politically agreed, but I have to say that she was very correct and as a professor, because we didn't share the same idea at the time, and I am grateful that she evaluated my knowledge with the highest grade, although I think I've worked hard and learned a lot to reach and achieve it. I'd just say one thing, you have the right to a constitutional appeal and it's the Constitutional Court that's going to say whether something is in line with the Constitution or not. We think it's consistent with the Constitution. We think that we have had much worse acts that we have adopted here "lex specialises" and many others who have passed control and have passed constitutional complaints, but of course I do not interfere in the affairs of the Constitutional Court and that is not the question of the feeling of Mr Pavicevic, so I am absolutely sure that Mrs Rakić Vodnelic will find the best legal form to examine it, if you are interested. I want to say that your amendments so that people don't think that they were content and that they had a meaning that should change, complete and correct the law. All your amendments are "expunged". Each of your amendments is "wipe yourself", to buy yourself, I don't know you won't mind me two or five minutes of debate, which is also legitimate. I'm not saying it's meaningful, but it's certainly politically legitimate. One more thing, seeing as there's some kind of joke here at the expense of buildings, towers, mall pencils, Mr. Vujevic has used one expression that I'm going to say in front of you. It's a completely different orbit compared to what we had. I'm not an expert who likes shops, I don't understand myself at all, but when I saw the data, because I didn't trust the mayor of Belgrade when he was giving me that information, I asked for a data check for Dubaji Moll, and then we started talking about the easier zone, so here we are. Can we do that until we are a member of the European Union to spend our time in the territory and attract everyone from the region to come to the most expensive goods to buy with us. We've talked about all this and it won't be ordinary housing. It's going to be housing that we didn't build here. It'll be molds, towers, towers like we didn't build here. It'll be arranged, and you'll see the promenade, just as we haven't arranged so far. But if you convince me that the modernization step is these rats and snakes and all this that many now so successfully and emotionally defend, trying to explain to me that it is a Belgrade spirit. I'll tell you the dirt, the wrecks, the mockery, it's never gonna be and it's not gonna be a Serbian or Belgrade spirit. I'm willing to change these things and change them in a fair and responsible way, and I'm always ready to accept every criticism and legal form and content issue, and we're always ready to talk about it. For one second, I didn't want to insult the man whose name you mentioned, I apologize for not remembering once again, it shows that I'm not professional enough in that area, as Professor Kiraki knows everything. So, I've told that expert of yours from your party because you said, and what's offensive about it. Because of what I said. I don't know what a pronoun would do, I thought of a specific man, I apologize if it's an insult, then I really don't know what to say about all the things that many have said about us today. It was not my intention to offend anyone, but I call on this man to come and also help us in this business and everyone else is welcome, because this is the interest of all people in Belgrade, but the interest of all Serbian citizens, because they will all feel better about it. Every shift in macroeconomic parameters, every shift in GDP, every shift in growth in industrial production will also mean a improvement for our man in Blac and Kursumlia, as much as for the one in Kanjiza, Apatino, Kula, Odjak, Sombor and every other place. I thank you once again for your attention, and I ask you to reconsider, you are welcome always and at all times, and regardless of the most difficult political assessments and convictions we rarely encounter from Mrs. Rakić Vodnelic, I have very high respect for her and I think she is a kind lawyer unlike many others who are not her to the knees. Regardless of all our political disagreements, and by that you can see that politics is not crucial in us, but that we also know how to respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24825	I must give my word to the MP, because in the replica of the MPs for two minutes, I cannot give to others except the president who answered. So the word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24826	Thank you. We've heard a lot of things here today. Radoje Domanović wrote a wonderful satire "The Dead Sea", it's called, in elementary school learning, whenever you want something new, then work on that truly palanic spirit. We Serbs know perfectly what we don't want, and rarely when we know what we want, or the criticism to write, we're masters here, but when we have to give some idea, we're here and we're in need. That's one of our big problems. I've been brought up so much that in my life, I know what I don't want and I don't want this. I'm not gonna do this for sure. That's your Mehetten. So that's what you left us and I won't. Now, I know what I want and I would like to be "Belgrade on Water", and I confess to Mr. Vukic, here, as a member of the parliamentary group and the party that you are president, I am a skeptic of this project not because I don't want it, with all my heart I want it and I would give everything to build it but you know in my 36 years no major project in Belgrade has been built and I'm not used to it. All you've been saying, Branko Pesic is that, those are the people who had the mandate before I was born. I didn't experience it. It was the truth of the city's makeup, it was there to build some blocks somewhere. You know where I live, I live in Banjaca on the 22nd floor. So, fantastically, I see all of Belgrade as a palm. I don't see cranes in this town, or I haven't seen them, God help me, when "Belgrade on Water" starts now, we'll see something and we'll build it somewhere. But for years I've been looking back at Belgrade and there's no cranes anywhere to be done. Belgrade has narrowed down to the transge-frange system, to the sale of services, to fogs, and we're also in need of a terrible one, because you know a stranger here when he comes and when he sees a coast like that, that jungle, a man's not crazy enough to stop there, because there's nothing there to buy. We've really been growing ambrosia very successfully. We grew mosquitoes fantastically. It's not funny, it's sad, you couldn't normally walk past the river, especially when summer was because mosquitoes couldn't live for years. We didn't do anything to stop it. And worst of all, we've been fantastically developing corruption, to the extent that we've driven both Kempinski and every project that's come here because someone's asked to be installed. That's how it worked in Belgrade. And we couldn't do anything alive because someone asked for a commission. That's how it worked out here. You've been talking about what we find in that coast and it needs to be open and honest about what we find there. In addition to these snakes, frogs, mosquitoes, stray dogs, indeed, the worst social layer you can see somewhere, all kinds of pickpockets, the horror to get down, not to lie, the oldest trade in the world is there and how present, the poor parents who take the children to Isidora Sekulić school, what those children have to look at, because there is a chain of prostitution, and I want them to move out of there. I don't want that kind of crime to be in Belgrade. I want those kids going to that school to go safely. There's a drug lord's seat. There are as many of them as you will, and they stick to needles; indeed, it is insecure and terrible. Imagine someone opposed to cleaning it up and moving out? Here I am a humble man, you may never have to build it, but even if you clean it up, then, at least I mean, this government needs a monument to rise, even if it clears up that chaos. In 20 years, someone will come and build something, and the project "Belgrade on Water" will fail, at least to clean up, because it is indeed a mockery and a disgrace. God has given us two rivers to go out and we can be Rio de Janeiro in the right sense of that word in Europe, and we are Rio de Janeiro because that part downstairs looks like the worst favela in Rio de Janeiro. The worst crime is going on down there. Now someone's opposed to trying to solve it. They say it's expensive, it costs money. It costs everything in life. You know, it also cost at the time of Rome Colosseum, it cost the Eiffel Tower, it cost King Leopold's Gate in Brussels or in St. Petersburg what the emperors made all those castles, but someone had a vision that it remained a nation, a state, and eventually it would be charged through history, because someone would come to see it. They often criticize our church, they say – what do large governmental courts do? So don't make that bishop do it for yourself, make it for that people, and it'll stay here for us, and someone will pay for years and come and see it. I'm sorry, but there's pure profit. I don't know why someone's so opposed to building a tower like that, it's so nice to build a tower like that. He says he's disrupting the history of the city. I'm sorry, if anyone has disrupted the history of this city, it's you, because I'm not a supporter of socialism or communist order or anything, but I'm sorry, we're freed by the Red Army. You've wiped out all the Red Army leaders, and the names of the streets, and that's a disgrace to this city. We no longer have Marshall Tolbuhin or General Zdanov, and that's a shame, we erased everything. At least you've moved those streets to this New Belgrade, because it's still the new Belgrade's turn to be respected in that era. In every normal country, it's respected. I am extremely pleased that it is a monument to Emperor Nikolai and I am very happy about it and I am glad that we have the boulevard of King Alexander Obrenović and I am glad that we have the street of King Peter, but I am sorry, one part of our historical era is this and it should be respected. And in the end, history makes money. Only crazy people erase their history. If the House of Flowers is the most visited in Belgrade, why not make a living at the House of Flowers? Of course we have to do everything we can to get people to come and pay and see Tito's grave, so what now, that's part of our history and that's just it. Come on, guys, let's think commercially, let's make a living, not always being against something without knowing what we're for. There's some kind of secret deal going on here. I'm a living witness, in a company where I served as president of the Assembly, I found secret contracts that no one in the company had seen, were in the safe. To realize these contracts, you brought to the government's phone sessions of the regulation's amendment regulation, to legalize a business that, for example, broke the company and completely destroyed it. Don't talk about secret contracts. You in government phone sessions agreed on how to rob a state. It's the only thing you could do. Now you're talking here, and I understand what auto-projection is, often Mr. Vukic mentions it, and maybe you're leaving, maybe you'd rob so many Serbian citizens that you want to build "Belgrade on Water". There's no credit here, neither are we giving our money, but someone else is coming to make money. You know, all these objects that we listed in Western Europe, in general, they were colonial forces, they were other colonies exhausting, they were taking their money to build something like that, and we'd admire these objects today. We're here, we're not robbing anybody, we're doing anything, but we're getting money from someone who wants to do it here. I don't understand what's on your mind here. You are calling for someone to break the Constitution or the laws. You know, when you passed the Privatisation Act, which was completely against the constitution, and so you robbed our property, which destroyed our lives, ruined our company and everything alive, you didn't call yourself to the Constitution. When you extradited people to The Hague, past any constitutional provisions and contrary to any normal legal act, you did not refer to the Constitution. You haven't had a Constitutional Court in six or seven years and none of the citizens could complain somewhere if his human rights were violated, because you didn't have a Constitutional Court. That was your authority. You're telling someone here right now that someone's breaking the Constitution or the laws? That doesn't make any sense. Admit it, you left us a mockery of Sava, unfortunately, we have one there complete chaos. I see you're disgusted with Arab capital. Excuse me, let's go to the sports. One Manchester City is the champion of England, the Arabs are its owners, the Money Saint Germen Paris, the Flight Emirates is the main sponsor of the Arsenal, and they don't disgust on Arab capital, I apologize. The Arab capital is very welcome to them, Barcelona, after all, I don't understand. If that works out there, if in Great Britain, Spain, they don't disgust Arab capital, what are you disgusted about here? Is it perhaps a distraction for some people who have been paying you well for campaigns and who you have allowed to rob citizens and peel their skins, and these are the tycoons that have come to Luke Belgrade the way they have come or to "Belville" and may mind that something like that will be built, because it reduces the price of their facilities? So all this stuff you're doing is saying a lot more about you. Otherwise, Mr. Wolfie, I'd love to, since it's been mentioned here all the time that you've been here, I don't know what you promised, and it was that famous story about the microchip factory. First, you never told the citizens that it was going to be built, but it's going to be a scientific centre here to study whether we could maybe someday build a microchip factory, because it takes perfect technology, perfect knowledge, but here someone attacks, which we even have the idea that someone would bring Mubadala here to have a science center, so it's not normal. It would be an honor for everyone to come here and open such a scientific centre and where good luck they've considered even coming to this market here. This is where Al Dahra was sent away, so someone managed to drive Al Dahra away, and that's insane. Why? Because some of their tycoon farmers aren't responding to competition. You'll see soon enough, if they're not against Lidl, if they don't come to tear down those foundations, when Lidl's making himself up, or if they don't reprint those newsletters, because this is where the competition gets in the way. There are only certain tycoons here who, unfortunately in a particular segment, were much stronger than the state, and who dictated here how laws were passed, and they can only profit here and I am glad that you started to break it here, and this very project "Belgrade on Water", and otherwise all those who claim it wasn't a tender, so I apologize. Whoever wants you to do it, give three and a half billion euros and do it your way. So, three and a half billion, fine from your pockets and you're building a project. I'm not sure what you've been paid for for years either, I'm not sure that three and a half million euros would have come out of your pocket, not three and a half billion euros. So, with all my heart, I support this, and I'm sorry that Belgrade no longer has older buildings, unfortunately, 40 and several times have brought us down, and a little bit, we've had some war, and finally it's time for us to be a factor of peace and stability and to start building something, because this people expect prosperity, this people expect an economic improvement. And as Zika Bujuklic told us in his perfect lectures of Roman law, whenever a delegation came to him, there was nowhere to take her, and they were looking for the oldest building in Belgrade, he took them to the "Sign of Questions" pub because all of our buildings were torn down. We're finally going to build something, where we're really going to take people with our hearts and souls and show how big this city has a really big heart and, after all, great potentials. With all my heart, I support "Belgrade on Water" and I want it built.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24827	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24828	Sometimes we simply don't understand that the world around us is changing and learning and making progress without us standing in place and thinking that one building is not modernization. "Belgrade" is 101 meters high. The business centre "Usje" is 115 meters high. The Avala tower is 204 meters high. The tower to be built in "Belgrade on Water" will be 220m high. Unfortunately, there is no construction company in Serbia that can only do this, it does not exist. We don't have the technology to do that, we don't know how to do that, we don't have the right materials. We don't have enough money to do. Yeah, make a 220-metre building for us will be modernization, we'll learn something, and it's no small thing to learn something, and that's something we'll be able to sell to others after that, so we'll be able to work on other markets because we learned something we didn't know. The waist, some think like this, others think like that, of course, you should trust each other. In particular, when it comes to Mr Kresovic, some dispute him, they believe he is the worst city architect Obrenovac has ever had. They accuse him of uncontrollably building residential buildings without enough parking space, believe it or not. I'm sure that's not the case, because that's what waists like, one thinks that, one thinks this, but each of us can be the subject of criticism, both here and here, and I don't see why they'd be angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24829	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. To what replica now? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post. To Mr. Vulin's exposure. He can't really. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: What was Mr. Vulin talking about? It's not about you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. It's not. Thank you. I give my word to Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24830	Thank you. Just to add a few very important things, so I'm sure there won't be any more replicas from the MPs we've just seen, not to appoint him. Imagine if we abolished the Constitution in Serbia, what would happen? It was also done by a prominent architect when in 2003, and in a new bill, he abolished spatial plans, no spatial plans. In 2003, it was in Shumarce's Law, so they realized that there were no results, so in 2009, they returned, and now the party, the prominent architect, has again abolished the highest urban act in its new bill, which is the spatial plan. So much for a respected architect. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24831	You are not a respected architect, I must give my word to Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the honourable guests of the Serbian Government, Mr Prime Minister and the Honorable Minister and Minister, I must now say two things here, one Minister Mihajlovic, and one Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, one. Look, I can't accept the seriousness of joining the debate at the National Assembly session when Minister or Minister Vulin, for example. He doesn't even know a lot of the name of the man we're talking about here, who is a respected architect named Marin Kresic, not Kresojjevic Mr. Vulin. You don't care what anybody's name is, what their last name is, what the building is, how many floors there are. Mr. Vulin, Mrs. Mihajlovic, beware that gentlemen, when Mrs. Mihajlovic was in the Assembly in December when we discussed the amendment and the addition of the Law on Planning and Construction, when we adopted the amendment proposal, when we changed it after two weeks, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we then promised you and the peoples and citizens of Serbia that the New Party would prepare a whole new draft of the planning law. We have prepared, honourable gentlemen, and yesterday we have submitted to the assembly procedure, and we expect that those MPs here, above all from the SNS, will vote to put it as a part of the agenda at one of the next sessions of our Assembly, gentlemen. Mr. Wolfie, there's one thing I forgot to tell you, you've been talking to us here today with one respect. You called this house a tall home. I think a special kind of respect would exist if you'd promise here now, for example. that every last Thursday of the month you will come and answer the questions of the MPs from four to seven in the afternoon. For me, it would be respect for this home and the Assembly as a central political institution in our constitutional system, Mr. Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24833	Thank you. Replica Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24834	Let me get this straight. So I repeat once again, the respected prominent architect has put aside the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia even in the new bill. You know what's interesting? In a new bill of your party's law, your prominent architect, 70% of the amendments and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction that we adopted in December, that it is true so that this copy-paisy you do is nice, I am glad, it means that the law is excellent, but for your information, this law today in Serbia is one of the most reformable laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24835	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24836	First, I'll thank Mr. Pavicevic. As far as I'm concerned, I'm here in parliament, and if I haven't left Parliament and I'm always trying to concentrate on answering every question, it's still easier than the daily obligations in the Serbian government and everything we have to do. Keep in mind that only when I'm not here, I'm not here because I'm lazy or because I'm resting, but because I have other important obligations. But here, I give you my word that I will do my best and that we will at least double our presence here on the last Thursday, or we will try every time there is a session of the last Thursday of the month to come to that session and attend. It's not hard for me, not for three hours, but you can see that I've been answering MPs' questions for 13 hours and I've never had arguments, rings, political fights, exchanges, so sometimes it relaxes me to be honest and funny about yours and Mrs. Gojkovic especially. She's always had this sense that I feel like three lives to practice I couldn't learn, but in any case you have my word and my promise that I'll really do my best that whenever we're in the country, when it's not some important foreign-political activity, we come to the Assembly and answer every question you ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24837	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) Replica Zoran Babic, mentioned SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24838	Mr Pavicevic called and mentioned the SNS. Mr Pavicevic, we will not vote for the law to be placed on the agenda because we adopted the Law on Planning and Construction in December, the law by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the measure of the state of Serbia, the measure of investors, the law that brought the building permit in 28 days, and that law is one of the most reformable laws. We will not for another reason because you called this law Mr. Pavicevic a rag, but I have made it very clear to you that you and the party on whose list you were, made it possible for the citizens of Serbia to suffer, and that is another reason why we will not vote for that law. And as Mr. Vukic has committed himself that although he is much better at being in parliament than all the previous governments have been, show a little goodwill so for these brilliant amendments, "get deleted" at least come to vote, at least you come, you press that button, not to harass us here by spending hours in the National Assembly. It's not hard for us, we'll stay, we'll show, but don't be around bars and cafes, but come and show us how to at least vote for your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24839	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24840	President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues, I understand that it is indeed too late and that this debate has strayed, very often, away from the topic itself. I will try to be concise, to open up a topic that I think is the essence of this Law, and that we will have opportunities to talk about "Belgrade on Water" itself in future and when we see contracts and when we see projects, because this is a topic that will remain open. What is my main objection to the concept of adopting this law is the question of expanding expropriation. I think you're all aware that through our history, we've had bad experience with similar laws. These are laws, I don't need to remind you, but just in case, if necessary, of the Expropriation Act, old, nationalization, confiscation, or laws that have been engulfed in the integrity of private property. What is true is that the difference between this law and some former laws is that this one provides for a market fee for property to be taken away from natural persons. On the other hand, this text of the law clearly states why the wording of expropriation itself is spreading, that is, why this Law is passed. It was okay, and it was the liquid of Western civilization, so it could be expropriated when it's in the public interest. Public interest, you know what it represents, and that's exactly what the law says. I can read it, but I don't think I should waste your time. It's hospitals, public institutions, roads, government bodies. For the first time in recent practice, we have a case of law-making, as you say in your explanation, for the possibility of building hotel, catering facilities, then residential and business complexes. What is very important, and I think that you are all aware that there will certainly be a topic in the Constitutional Court, that this will probably be a topic in Strasbourg as well, and that the Republic of Serbia can easily, under this law, come into a situation to be a liability for damages. What my proposal is, to avoid this situation, I don't know if the Prime Minister has had a chance to look at our amendments, but the essence is moving in the direction of realising what a market price is. In that case, we can talk about the constitutionality or morality of this Law, but we cannot say that citizens, who own property in that territory, those hectares you've been talking about, will be damaged. What's the problem, as you suggested, is just an undefined assessment that should be a market value. The market value today in Serbia is usually realised based on an assessment of the tax administration. I have to tell you that in that way, if it is the only criterion, you will put another investor in an unequal position at other locations and you will be able to violate the Constitution. In particular, what I mean is, if you as a private investor want to buy a location for construction, the price of that location will be determined, not only on the value of the apartment located in that location, but on the basis of future, possible squares that could or should be built in that location, all based on spatial plans. In this case, I have not seen such a solution in the law, we have proposed an amendment that says that the owners of the estates belong to an adequate value compared to the future built squares. I think you should properly assess the possibility of this amendment, for a simple reason, because no one could ever say that apartment owners were not paid adequate value. This may make higher costs for investors at the start, but you have made sure that this is passed under the law, based on the Constitution and can not be followed by the whole process of confiscation, or expropriation of property, the subject of some other damages. It may create some difficult circumstances when it comes to application, or it may take some longer time, but I am also reminding you, and you know it very well, Prime Minister, as a really kind lawyer, which means private property, private property in Serbia, private property in the EU, and what its integrity means. I think you should think carefully, because in the future we will find ourselves in a situation where we have violated human rights, and today, given our direction and the path we are going to go, there are institutions that will deal with these assessments. As far as the project Beograd on Water itself is concerned, the point of this whole Act is, as with my colleague, that he is necessary, that he is good and that he fails to build Beograd on water, we will have an interest, if nothing else, that dump will be cleaned, and we will have a green surface, where we will be able to walk with children. Of course, don't interfere with your mind, and that's what I want to tell you, that today, when this law is passed, and it will be adopted, because you have most, first of all, a great political responsibility on you. Whether or not it will be Belgrade, voters, citizens of Serbia will appreciate it on the basis of your promises. What I don't think has been productive tonight is the presentations of individual ministers who have contributed to changing topics, spreading demagogy, and the exposures were not concise. In the end, I just want to tell you, I would really like to see "Belgrade on Water" succeed. Think of people getting real damages. Also, consider doing a more serious reconstruction of your cabinet recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24841	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24842	I thank Mr. Home for the good, measured analysis and for being on the subject entirely, the real subject and the essence of this law. You've taken not the best examples of nationalization, of co-operation, speaking of expansion of expropriation. We had good examples of expropriation. Today we were talking about 1966 and Lex specializing in Gazela. We had other good examples between the '50s and the '80s, and then much less. The integrity of private property is, I would say, one of the most important rules in the preservation of the private property institute and none in private property, except in exceptional cases, and as you well know excepciones un estrictisimas interpretationes. So we think this is a narrow interpretation, not a wide one. We do not think that we are coming out of a framework within which we would compromise the right of private property, especially because it is stated, how you read it yourself, that the market value will be compensated. The market value is what we are currently talking about today, if someone raises doubts about the tax administration's report, which concludes that the market value is based on the traffic of immovable property, i.e. the level of the real estate price in a given area. So, if there's any doubt that we might introduce it into the Institute of Arts so that we can evaluate it in the best way. If we accept your proposal, if I understand correctly, because I haven't read the amendments, that would mean we'd have to accept it, you'll agree, perhaps triple the price of the market today. So maybe somewhere we can find a concession. It's a small number of objects. We're not talking about a large number of objects and something that could essentially damage the budget to a large extent, but it's a matter of principle. Does this mean that every time we have a big investment project, when we have a new highway, some new section of the highway, that we'll always have to apply that principle. I am more afraid of applying the same principle or of demanding to apply the same principle, the same rule in the future, than the costs that this could generate for us in the project "Belgrade on Water". So that's the only reason. Of course, there's a possibility of an agreement, and it's something left to two parties that they can always agree on. I think today's debate, despite everything, has opened up a lot, revealed, showed. I think she was very moderate. I think it was a real parliamentary discussion. Of course, each of us will find a grudge on the other side. I don't have any grudges. Today I learned little from people who think differently or who disagree and we will accept part of it, part of it to show in the amendments, but in other things we are ready to accept certain things. There were objections that I know people didn't understand why they were taking them out, as you understand perfectly in the formal and material-legal sense of words, some people didn't even understand what they meant as observations. I saw that even the essence was confused and mixed, that nothing was clear to them from what they were reading, but not connected to it, it was good for those who would go out with such claims to be able to diversify those doubts that existed in public. One is a fierce campaign and propaganda that is not always easy to stand up to. Anyway, thanks for this. I'm more concerned about the future here, as now that we've done collective agreements, when you do, as you know, one collective contract then kills you 10 next collective agreements. Those who negotiated collective agreements don't know which one of you in the government worked in various sectors. So it's impossible to defend, it's absolutely impossible to defend yourself from it, if you give in to one place in the system, then it's such a pressure, where you have to lie down on the ore everywhere. That's the problem here, and that's the only pain. Otherwise, for everything else, I'm grateful for the analysis and it's pretty accurate, and I wouldn't have anything to add to taking it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24843	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24844	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers and guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that this debate today, first of all, was constructive. It was long, but it was constructive and there was not much argument against the realization of this project, it was mostly asked questions, and there was an understanding of why questions were being asked. I'm going to try to give an answer like this at the end. As Madam Minister Joksimovic said, simply somewhere, it was wandering from the essence of this law. Because, first of all, this law creates a legal condition for the realization of this project and that is what its basis is. Only after its adoption will we start to realize project creation will we start to make concrete arrangements, and then we will have answers to a number of questions that we have heard today in this debate. I would like, since we have heard various interpretations on the subject of expropriation here in principle today, just for the sake of the public, to say that expropriation is not an expropriation of property to citizens, but it is an expropriation of the translation of immovable property, i.e. land or objects from private to state property for the sake of general interest and, of course, with adequate market compensation. That's what's very important. It should also be noted that only, meaning in the territory where "Belgrade on Water" will be built is owned by about 5% of the territory. That's very important information. So, because the expropriation is done in that territory. Some of my personal observations I want to say that these days we have seen that there are great resistances, there are great resistances, but nowhere have we seen that citizens living in this area have organized themselves, which means they are also aware that they have lived in inhumane conditions that it wasn't a living environment right. We've heard from the Prime Minister that the alternatives they got that made them happy. So the very process of expropriation and the determination of public interest is not something new in our country, and it usually applies when we have a large foreign investment, when we have big investments that we can't lose, as is the case now. The fact is that the regulation of the Sava coast is of strategic importance, both for the very city of Belgrade and for Serbia. I live in Uzica, and that's why I want to contribute to this project, further through the exposure, and I'm going to explain why. First and foremost, the fact that almost a century has been trying to find a solution for this space is why I will make a very short urban historical reference to the Sava coast. Although, we've heard it several times, this will be as short as possible. So, until 1830, they know that Sava was the border of Belgrade's pasture, where a transit trade node developed. After gaining independence, then the town began to expand. But people wanted to be somewhere away from that transit, away from that commercial node, and they were already in the first place, it wasn't a real urban plan from 1867, made some mistakes that are still very difficult to deal with today. So, an intense traffic that was very favourable at the time, today is a stumbling block, and that is all the next general urban plans and recognized as a problem. The first of 1932, or 1923, were specifically engaged in the center. Later, they were even criticised by other urbanists for paying attention to the centre and solving this problem, i.e. heavy traffic in the city center. The general urban plan of 1950 has moved the administrative and housing centre to New Belgrade and thus Belgrade has started to expand, and the centre remains abandoned. For all this time on the Sava coast, nothing is waving, no accommodation for socially endangered, very modest hotels, modest cafes, and unfortunately this is today a picture of this part of Belgrade. There's even been an observation from opposition MPs that we can't, that we have to keep cultural historical monuments, of course we have to keep cultural historical monuments, but I'd be wondering what we're going to leave for our children to keep as cultural historical monuments, if we're not building anything in our time, because here we can now realize that for a decade nothing has been built on this part. So, a lot of urbanists and architects worked on the plans to regulate this coast, and they all agreed on some four points, which is that heavy traffic should be shifted, primarily by rail and bus stations, then a new centre with public and commercial content should be formed, to provide an exclusive part for housing and to increase the number of green areas and areas for recreation. That is what the plans agreed on, if we also mentioned the 1993 Sava City, Europol, which we have repeatedly mentioned today's "Belgrade on Water". So it can't be said that alternative solutions didn't exist and that it wasn't taken into account all these years. What even those who have looked at urbanism in Belgrade have found is that since 1923, everyone has noticed what the problems are and what the potentials of this area are, but no one has been able to solve them. Not because they didn't have good plans and ideas, but because they didn't have money. That's the key, which is, besides having a good plan today, we have financial support and that's definitely what we can't miss. Since so many generations wanted to solve the Sava coast problem for this reason, and of course Serbia has changed its borders and sizes, for this reason it can be said first of all that this is a national strategic project. So today, after many years of initiatives, we have developed a spatial plan of the area of special purpose, as a technical framework, but it is done at the level of the urban plan of general regulation. It's the basis for this law. As I said, once this law has been passed, then it will be further discussed with the projects of detailed regulation, idea solutions and I am very glad that the prime minister has called on all interested people to finally give their participation, not to listen to any more objections, each door is open to give its participation in both design and money control. So transparency at the highest level. So, public insight will be after every stage we heard and that everything will be exposed to checking the professional public. What is very important to note is that there is no experience in editing this area, for years no one has built anything, so that everything that investors and builders and the City of Belgrade will meet in the coming period needs to be solved in walking and that people and citizens of Belgrade have an understanding of it. I would briefly refer to the fact that there is a high level of groundwater and it is definitely so, even once these hydrological and geological tests have been done, but of course, now the technology is so far away that it certainly won't be a problem that we won't be able to set up the parking spaces deeply, this water will certainly be able to be used for heating. So, by gripping through exploiting wells, then passing through heat pumps can in this way provide heating for the entire area. Then the 116 sewers in the Sava will be resolved, it will be a protection of the environment, the banks of a fortress that will be 77m above sea level will rise. As far as transport infrastructure is concerned, in addition to this shift of heavy traffic, not all of this part of the "Beeding on Water" area will be free of traffic and it is strategically planned. So pedestrian traffic and easy transit will go through this section to ensure this uniqueness of space so that it does not remain isolated and thus preserve wider interests. Especially as a landscape architect, I would like to look back on the observations of the lack of green surfaces. That's definitely what we've heard several times today that it can't be considered. I'd just like to say that with a spatial plan, which we now have insight... And one more thing to say, since everyone was wondering what the model was for, the projecting model serves to show the potential buyer what that space would look like, of course, that can't read the plan. Nothing else serves a model, it's just a supplemental part of the plan, and that's what it serves today. Anyone who can't read the plan can go and look at it in such a projection. So, with the spatial plan, based on which the model was built, only frame maximum gauges and contents were designed. There, of course, did not develop green areas in detail. Where the purpose of the green surface is determined, so it is marked. So green surfaces will be later developed with detailed plans. As we've heard from the Prime Minister, it's going to be set up here. container or those big pots with the trees, if necessary. Then there's vertical and there's horizontal greening, which is for people who are going to be investors here and so on. I'd just like to say that in addition to all the benefits that this project will bring, which is the employment of the domestic construction industry, then, the opening of around 10,000, and maybe more new jobs, then, the development of the territorial economy and the use of domestic materials, then, strengthening the economy and tourism, I'd just like to mention something that no one has said so far, which I think is extremely important, and that's what urbanists and architects are, and I'm in that category, so we've been fighting for years now, and I think this project is just going to provide, it's strengthening green construction. I believe many have heard of it. Then, using renewable energy sources and building roof gardens. How important it is for our country, to finally bring it back to life, not only to remain in Belgrade and not only to remain in the framework of "Beograda on Water", all of my colleagues know this, it will primarily ensure a great amount of energy savings and environmental protection. It would also be if the experience were good in "Belgrade on Water" and if it spreads in Belgrade and later on to other cities, I would like it to be a practice in my town too, in Užica. We have a big problem with environmental pollution, so in that sense I see that this project can bring us good, one experience, one practice, and I hope the employment of our builders. The descent of the city to the rivers has long been a vision, a vision of both these governments and urbanists and many previous ones, but I don't think it's a vision anymore, that this is now becoming a reality, that it becomes a future, and in this sense great support and happiness in making this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24845	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24846	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ten to twelve, but a little more attention. Mr. Vucicou, it is good that you gave up on "Belgrade on Water" and the Lex specialis is referred to as an emergency procedure. What is not good is that you gave up on it only after the public pressure, which suggests that you would rather do this project in a short procedure - less questions, less answers, in an old good habit of cutting the tape and celebrating Belgrade. I would like, in Serbia, for example, to discuss in an urgent procedure or some urgent procedure the responsibility of, say, Minister Verbic for the state of education, or, say, Minister Gasic for the situation in the military, or, let's say, the responsibility of Mr. Mali for what they say is the paramilitary of municipal formations in Belgrade, but that's not going to happen with us. Then we MPs of the right given to us to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must fight in the way we know and know. Not a single government in Serbia, not just yours, not a single one should be surprised when the citizens of the street become an institution when these real ones don't work. The source of doubt about the project "Belgrade on Water" lies in that every child, every citizen and every citizen knows about "Belgrade on Water" and no one knows anything about "Belgrade on Water". That's what you're asking the citizens to believe in your word, not on the basis of a contract, not on the basis of legal guarantees, but on your word. I don't believe your word, Mr. Wolfie. Here's why I don't believe your word. In 2013, you announced as defence minister that a private company would sign a billion-dollar contract to build military facilities in an African state. It's not true. A month later, you made a legendary statement about investing in tens of millions of euros, talking about that chip factory. It's not true that you were talking about the Institute of Science. You said -- that factory will save Serbia, its revenues will save Serbia's deficit. It's not true. In the same statement, you said we'd build high-tech missiles for the United Arab Emirates. It's not true. Seven months later, you announced investments of 400m or 450m euros in the factory for the construction of aircraft components. Is it true? You said we'd hire 600 people. So you said the factory would be built in Zemun. You said – we also know the plot. So you said he'd be in Panchev. It's not true, Mr. Wolfie. That's why I don't believe your word. There are still statements of "Belgrade on Water". Well, that's a story to yourself. Mr. Mali announced in March, ten days before the elections, that the start of the construction of Berograda on water will begin in the autumn. He said we'll sign the contracts in a week or two. He meant April last year. You didn't sign them in April of this year either. So it's not true. You, Mr. Vukic, moved to spring a few months later to start building "Begrada na Voda" from autumn to spring. You moved to summer in the spring. Can we take your word for it? Who, you or Sinishi Mali? Why am I telling you this? You did make a statement and it's not true that you said you only meant the first A phase. He did say - in four years each building with the model "Beograda na water" will be completed, in four years. That's what you said on March 18, 2015. Seven days later, Sinisa Mali said that "Belgrade on water" would be built for ten years. Well, or ten or four? Or the fall or the spring or the summer? Either Sinisha Mali is not telling the truth, or you are not telling the truth. We've heard a lot about the absence of dialogue with the profession. Here's a few things they said. The Serbian Academy of Architecture said this project would create an urban chaos and invited you to withdraw this project. The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts on page 22 of criticism said the project would cause environmental and social consequences due to overcrowding. They stood behind those criticisms by name and last name. To this day, you have hidden the authors of the "Biograda on Water" solution. Why, Mr. Wolfie, of two million squares million and 750 thousand shopping malls, buildings, commercial facilities? Why am I saying this? Well, because it's not a public interest, and for schools, kindergartens, buildings, cultures, which is a public interest, only three percent of the space. Why, Mr. Wolfies, private well in front of the public interest? The difference between whether we are building "Belgrade on water" or, they say, drowning Belgrade in water lies in contracts, in legal guarantees, in clear answers, not in exclusive statements. The difference lies in respect of rights, not in secret brotherly arrangements. That is why we will not vote for "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24847	Thank you. You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24848	I congratulate you on your energy to yell at the late hours here before midnight, and that's fine, and I think it was very important and raised the energy of everyone, you don't have to throw it away, I listened very carefully even though I was mostly listening to the false. So, I tried to understand what you said, it's a good thing it's not an emergency procedure, but I did it under public pressure. Do you really think that because you were saying it somewhere and listening to yourself say that that's why I gave in and said that's how it should be? No, it's someone more important than you. Come on, please don't. It was my desire to show you that we are proud of this project, that we have nothing to hide, that we will leave you all the time in this world as we have given you 12, 13 hours today. I've been answering your questions for 13 hours and I'll be polite and polite, so I'm not gonna say I haven't heard any of those questions. You said we don't sell any missiles here. You don't know anything, you make it up, and you don't tell the truth. We sell and we do new ones, but you don't know anything about it. And what you're getting mixed up in is that you don't know and what you're talking about some things you don't know about, things you don't always have to talk about in public. What are you talking about in public? And you have no idea about that. You've never heard anything about it. You don't know anything about that. Now you're out here saying something's not true. I'm telling you it's all true, and you don't know anything about it or you don't have anything to say. It occurred to you, like that, you read somewhere at a forum or I don't know where, so now I'm going to tell him what I'm going to say when I go to the assembly. Have ye seen what they said unto him, my sweetness, how I am unto him in the congregation of the people? You say someone wants to avoid your questions, that there are no questions. Unlike you, there are currently twice as many ministers here as the former regime's MPs in total. There are twice as many ministers in the O.R. as there are all of you here in these two or three parliamentary groups. You're a total of six of us are certainly more. There are two and a half times more of us than there are of you. Then you're trying to talk about seriousness and responsibility. You say – by emergency procedure, Verbić's responsibility. And these ministers of yours were all experts, and they arranged the system, which they arranged for education, so that's on such a world level just wondering if we're Switzerland or we're Sweden, we're something between the two countries. Well, then Verbic came to spoil it for you. So, you're saying, who should be responsible for Sinisha Mali's paramilitary formations? Well, those paramilitary formations you introduced in Belgrade is not Sinisha Mali. Sinisha Mali dressed them a little better, dressed them better, paid them fine wages. You made those paramilitary formations. And I don't think that these are paralegal formations, I think that in 99% of cases, honest people who do their job are doing their job responsibly. There are some who don't work, you won't work anymore. But you must go to some extreme precisely because of what I said – good morning, my dear, hello sweet, as I told him, did you see what I said to him. Listen to the paramilitary formations, the communal officers. So, where do you live? What kind of stories are these? What kind of stories are these? Well, you made them. It wasn't Sinisha Mali who made them. Let me tell you something, and what do you have to throw all the time? Do you really think, did someone advise you, someone told you that you were going to scare me or what? I don't understand that wave of hands, that left, that right, then you'll explain to someone what I said to him then, how I told him, huh? In the end, you told us – the street becomes an institution. I don't understand, are you threatening to make some institutions again, go to the street, you're very strong, so we need to hide somewhere because when you run out into the street and show us your strength and your muscles we all need to hide. Is that what this is about, if I understand you correctly? Here, we will, we'll run now. Are you letting us escape peacefully, with our heads, no matter how much you don't touch us on the way out? Is that okay? No, we don't want to sleep three nights out of those fierce threats of yours, that great force of yours. First, it's very unserious. Secondly, it's obvious to me that you have some problem with understanding your own strength and not understanding the real circumstances. Thirdly, I think it's very irresponsible to imagine you'll be on the street working things out, because the time has passed when you've beaten people and lynched them in the streets. It is past the time and burning of the National Assembly, a time has passed for lynching people in front of RTS, and that time when you beat people in the streets will never return to Serbia again and no one will ever beat people in the streets of Serbia again. Here, I admit, today you destroyed me, now let's call it "my sweet, my dear, as I told him all this" and I promise you three nights of fear I won't sleep and you are the absolute winner of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24849	Dr. Janko Veselinović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24850	Dear President, you are required to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I am advertising Article 107, and I could do more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24851	Go ahead, just say which members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24852	Article 107 has been injured. So, in this presentation of Prime Minister Vukic, there was a good violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Prime Minister Vukic cannot speak sarcastically of the MPs, of my sweet and sweetness.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24853	Why can't he say that when we use our daily speech?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24854	I know that Mr. Vukic knows that there are employees at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sitting upstairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24855	There aren't any employees here. Don't insult people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24856	If these were SNS MPs and there were a few opposition MPs here... Please let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24857	I can tell you that there is one member of the New Party. So I won't let you insult people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24858	Who have I offended?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24859	Well, with their insinuations they're busy, so they're them, so they're them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24860	Yeah, the employees are upstairs. Yeah, I know some employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24861	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24862	It is true, the employees are sitting down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24863	Don't argue with me, you're not the President of Parliament, you don't know the employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24864	No, I want to explain. Please allow me to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, Prime Minister Vukic, with your approval, insulted the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, speaking of the fact. You're free to hit the benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24865	That they have the right to bang on the benches. I explained it to you this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24866	It's the British Parliament, as you said. So here, the ministers present for ten months did not enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor did Prime Minister Vukic... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24867	Tell me, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24868	Because the prime minister insulted the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Which is a snide way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24869	Please, it's been two minutes. I didn't understand anything. I have to accept. I can't give a word to anyone on the part of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24870	Will you let me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24871	You can't go on forever. You have two minutes and an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24872	You've been talking to me for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24873	In two minutes. I assume you've learned your rules of procedure for two terms of office. It says two to two, if I figure it out sooner, I can interrupt you sooner and answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24874	If I say they're sitting up there in the National Assembly, that's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24875	Please, we won't be making any mistakes even though it's past midnight, so we're a little more flexible after midnight. So you can't tell the truth. Today is the first time you insult Serbian citizens who have shown a desire to attend a meeting. For the first time, you haven't had any objections. Yes, citizen, please don't speak you'll get a sentence. I can tolerate it if you insult politicians, but you cannot insult Serbian citizens. The 107th doesn't speak at all about it, and it's a general place where someone wants to report for the word, but it is your right to vote and see if the MPs, 250 MPs, feel that the prime minister has offended dignity in his presentation. If you don't have a majority, he hasn't offended dignity and you're wrong, so he'll apologize to most of you. That's right, that's democracy. Democracy is a vote, I won't teach you, you've been doing politics for as long as I can remember from the early 1990s. There was another injury, as far as I could tell. No, you gave up. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24876	I apologize to all of you, I've allowed myself too much to make a joke, I haven't offended anyone. If "my dear" or "my sweet" is an insult, I don't think so, but you're right, I shouldn't have allowed myself to make a joke even if it was midnight. The essence of the discussion was in the sense of "my dear", "my sweet", as I told him, without saying anything, but if you consider it insufficiently serious that it can be interpreted in such a way, please accept my apology, but the essence of my presentation will not change that. I still have to finish what's been going on for about four and ten years, I don't always have to quote. You can't finish a project like this for ten years, but in four years, what's most important and what people are waiting for and what people will be able to see are these main buildings we've been talking about. But you don't have to tell us if it's four or ten or seventy. It doesn't matter. You left us 70 just a wreck, hundreds of barracks, a manager, a waver, I'm not gonna talk about that you can't have peace or deratization there, or anything else, so whether it's four, ten, or 40, it's certainly a lot faster and much faster before you've done anything, before you tried to clean up or any order in the whole coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24877	Thank you. Here you go. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Replication of the prime minister's presentation. ) Janko Veselinovic took advantage of the replica of what the Prime Minister said at one point "my sweet", he apologized, I don't know why Janko Veselinovic recognized himself in this, because it had been settled with you, but he took advantage of it. Not everyone can now have a replica of “my sweet, ” in line in the hall. No, really little to get this debate serious at the end. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: I had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: The prime minister insulted me. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, but by what? Nothing offensive. Article 104 speaks, I apologize for having to spend time a thousand times repeating - If the MP is insultingly expressed about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, citing his name and function, or misreading his presentation, he has the right to replication, or mentioning his political party. In the exercise of the right to the position of 1 and 2 of this member, the President of the National Assembly shall decide. I consider that I have the right to tell you that you cannot replicate because you have failed to fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 1 or 2. Now the word has Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24878	Dear National Assembly Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, members of the government, respected MPs, council members of the city's assembly a few days ago, said that Serbia has lagged behind in development, relative to some neighbouring countries for having several missed decades. We SPS MPs are convinced that thanks to the implementation of this project "Belgrade on Water", this decade in which we live will be a decade with content, because the implementation of this project objectively and Belgrade will change its image and Serbia. It is a very high-quality development project, and we cannot help but say that the great credit for this decade-old content will be given both by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and that this will objectively mean a lot to Serbia. Realisation of this project essentially concludes what began more than four decades ago. It should not be forgotten that in the 1970s, with the beginning of the realization of the completion of the Belgrade railway node, it began to think about what to do with the Sava amphitheater's space. Listening to today's debates, and we started at 11.00 a.m., a man can't help but wonder at the content of some discussions, because we've all been in a situation since the 1990s and here, to make our contribution, if we wanted to, if we wanted to, if we wanted to, what we were talking about, and that's about fixing the space of the Sava amphitheatre. I must say that we Socialists, thanks to our colleague Milutin Mrkonjic and the CIP Institute in 1996, did this to be completed in order, to solve the Belgrade railway node, that the station, the underground train station "Vukov Monument" was promoted in 1996 as one of the contents that could be met in this Sava amphitheatre. We did it, thanks to Mrkonjic. We still failed because in 1999 we had a bombing and then we had that magnificent restoration. I must say, unfortunately, after 2000, there was no political will to continue what began in the late 1990s. In his first presentation, the Prime Minister mentioned Prokop in the context of the commercial possibilities of completing Prokop, and I personally think that this should be underlined again, because the end of Prokop, since the panel has already been set up and the bottom part of the panel will have rail traffic, but the top part of the panel has its commercial content and will also have positive economic effects for Belgrade and Serbia. Why didn't others want to work? That should be asked, but the fact that this first decade was just one of the missed decades, when we didn't do anything, and you remember for yourselves how many years after 5 October, international financial aid came, donation support, that there was a will to do something and it would certainly have been done. I'm saying this in the context of the fact that we had the opportunity to do something about it, and we didn't, and then we still need to compare our exposure to what was done. I said this is a very important project and it will change Serbia's face. The Sava amphitheater won't look what it looks like today. Instead of rail tracks, long-term thresholds, empty wagons or those that are full of various chemical compounds and that are dangerous for the environment and for the people who live downstairs, instead of contiguous, unsettled communal space, we will get a modernly decorated space. In the light of this law, there is a figure of 1 million square meters of living space, about 750,000 square meters of business space and commercial space, more than 62,000 square meters of public content, such as kindergartens, schools, cultural institutions, social and health care, we will also get 24 hectares of green areas. Serbia will benefit from the implementation of this project, because our construction industry will participate, and we have heard this more than once today directly from the mouth of the prime minister and the resolute minister, but there will be many other performers who will participate in the implementation of this project and will benefit Serbia. How much concrete, wires, glass and all the other materials needed to realize a grand project like this, will be spent and we can only imagine. It is necessary to say that by realising this project, we will do one more good thing. Serbia will increase the share of services in the social gross product. The service sector is very important. It was another idea of the 1970s that was promoted to develop service activity, of course it takes infrastructure, there is also a need to develop trade, tourism, catering, municipal activity, and all this will be objectively more possible by realising this project. "Belgrade on Water" as a project should sublime all aspects of both economic and tourism and cultural development. So, apart from being the center of the business world, we think that we should definitely find our place here both the quality and cultural contents of the institutions of culture. Today, the prime minister has just made a parallel with the fourth Doklands in London, which was formed on the coast of the Thames right from the warehouses and from earlier industrial buildings. Today, Doklands is one of the most prestigious cultural destinations known for its art galleries. An important aspect of these projects is the fact that cultural significance raises the price of investment in such projects and raises the reputations of these urban continents. Belgrade is one of the most beautiful cities on two rivers and like numerous world centres, it should have the content of a modern and traditional culture and not to extend, as it is too late, I will repeat it once more, we must not miss the chance we had. I am pleased to say on behalf of our entire parliamentary group that we talked about this project in 1996 and when we were able to do something and when we did something, but in 2004 in the local elections for the City of Belgrade and 2008 and I am glad that my party and our coalition are part of the ruling coalition and what can be supported, and our colleague Milutin Mrkonjic, by his knowledge, can also help us, if we wish this project to be realized. We Socialists believe deeply in the importance of this project and we think that this project will win everyone, both Belgrade and Serbia and all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24879	I thank Professor Obradovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, as the last reported debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24880	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I were to talk about all the unfulfilled promises of the former regime, and unfortunately the citizens of Vojvodina, and the current regime in Vojvodina, it would take a lot more time than the SNS does. But the SNS will initiate a session of the National Assembly to discuss how loans were approved, and in the style of the Dalton brothers, the robbed banks in Serbia and the money made for political purposes, the promises of 200,000 new jobs, we will talk at the session and about 400,000 people who lost their jobs, the unfulfilled promises from 2000 to 2012 about Serbia's membership in the EU, all the failed privatisations. If necessary, we'll talk at that session and about the municipal police, which works under the same law that was passed, it seems to me, in 2009 or 2010, because then Mr. Sinisha Mali didn't write that law, or Article 21, which says that a municipal police officer can be convicted of a person up to six months in prison. That's what those who are now making some internal units out of the municipal police or I don't know what. I will make an apology, an apology on behalf of others, on behalf of those and that of the People's Messenger who had spoken so subjugationly before about the employees of the congregation. I apologize to all those hardworking and responsible people who, even after the end of this session, will enter this hall, prepare it to wait for us tomorrow clean, and I will thank those people who are now either in front of the building or here who care about the safety of this building, all those hardworking people who work to prepare every session, every paper that comes into our hands and I do not want to let anyone in this assembly, anyone in your society, in such a persuasive way as a colleague did before treat all the employees in the National Assembly. They're honest and wonderful people who do their job. I will also thank people who today are both city councils and city secretaries and people and directors of public enterprises and all those people who run city municipalities, because they showed their love for their city by their presence on the balcony today, showed responsibility, showed interest, showed a desire to build a world and European metropolis from Belgrade. I'll thank you too, Mr. Wolfie, because I admit today, I've been out of this room a few times, everyone's been out, and you haven't, Mr. Wolfie. You were here. I admire you physically and mentally and in any way. And you have shown how much you believe in what you say, how much you believe in a better Belgrade, in European and world Belgrade and one better Serbia and how much you are ready for this European and world Serbia and that you are working. Now it is not one-to-two, but four-to-one government representatives in relation to all the MPs of the former regime. There it is, now someone's back from the front door, now the ratio is three to one. I also thank you for showing what the public interest in "Belgrade on Water" is, and that it is public interest to build 62,000 public facilities, kindergartens, schools, institutions of culture and social and health care - again seems four to one for the Government of the Republic of Serbia - which will build 242 thousand meters of new green areas or 14% of the entire area will go to parks, where we will be able to perform our children tomorrow, to be calm and safe. What you have shown is that the public interest is that Belgrade's space will be cleaned from cemetery ships, wagons, from bad people and bad habits. You have shown that the public interest is that our construction operation will be employed. You have shown that public interest is to hire 13,000 people in hotels, restaurants, shopping malls, why not? It is also a relationship with Belgrade, it is also a relationship with Serbia. This law deserves full attention, deserves support because this project and this law has united all Serbia, because they wanted SNS MPs from Belgrade and Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic and Aca Markovic and Ljiljana Malusic and Marko Atlagic and Milan Stevanović to speak about this law, but I am even more grateful to them because they saw a chance for all Serbia, they wanted colleagues Irena Alexic from Kraljev and Vučeta Toskovic from Novi Sad and Biljana Ilic Stosic from Kragujevac and Nevenko from Ivanjic and Jasmin from Novi Sad and Zoran Bojanić from Kralje and many other colleagues and colleagues from SNS. I thank you for your efforts. I thank you for your argument that you have prepared and that argument, I ask you to use it, we will need it. We will face a series of amendments "expect" on Thursday. All that you wanted to say today, you will say on Thursday, and I am sure that this law, as it was proposed, will be "expunged" in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the next two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24881	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Professor Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24882	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, MPs, Mr. Vukicu, the theme of "Beograd on Water" is not an ecological topic for us, and therefore everything you have said about the arrangement, the removal of the wreck, the cutting of the grass, we understand. So, that area needs to be cleaned up, removed the wrecks, cut the grass. True, it is done today by machine machines for cutting grass, and this area needs to be fixed. I wouldn't have arranged any cuts there. Prime Minister, it is a serious legal, economic matter, if you will, and a political question. We really want to talk seriously about it, without any politics, without any humiliation of the opposition in the sense that it harbors hatred for someone in power. I repeat once again before you, I don't hate anyone. I believe, and I'm sure no one in our parliamentary group hates anyone from the government or the SNS because you belong to another political option. The interest of the citizens of Serbia and Serbia comes first, so I'm going to ask you some questions that I haven't heard the answer to today, Mr. Vukic. The first question – why, if this area was intended to raise certain objects, we can discuss the purpose of... So the first thing was to determine the purpose. We don't agree with the intention of housing. We think it was supposed to be a different purpose, but let's say we agreed on what the purpose of this space was. Which is why we haven't issued a public invitation to choose an investor in which we would clearly specify it, and when we talk about the amendments, we're going to talk about providing the means to expropriate, to provide funds to build that space, and to provide infrastructure resources? Why, Prime Minister? Because I believe that the state of Serbia does not have enough funds for this infrastructure facility, and now, as the law is written, the state of Serbia will invest the funds for expropriation and infrastructure planning. We didn't get an answer today how much it's going to take to expropriate it. We didn't win. It was said for the first stage of 40m euros, orally. It's not written anywhere. The particular question, Prime Minister, is that this law creates legal uncertainty. It's not about whether five or ten percent of objects are private property. If it were just one house or apartment, it was a private property that is everywhere in the sacred world, and that's why we suggested that this project be realized in a space that is a public property, or that is the property of a city, and that for other objects it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24883	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24884	Six minutes left. You can't take two minutes from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24885	It's not six minutes, it's four minutes, but if you say six, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24886	Please, if possible, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24887	Please allow the MP to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24888	So, private property is sacred and what my colleagues were talking about is that we create legal uncertainty for potential foreign investors by replacing one private property with another private property. It may happen tomorrow that Mark Markovic's house is suitable for building a shopping mall. That house should be torn down and in that area built a shopping mall. That's the problem. That's what no state of law exists in. That's why the Constitution and the law protect private property. That's why so far, according to the existing Expropriation Act, it wasn't possible. That's why we're very much aware of that. For this reason, we are not subject to a dispute in the Constitutional Court, nor to any other court, and this leaves no spot on the fact that Serbia should be a legal state. It is not a matter of goodwill, it is a matter of respect for European values if we want to be members of the European family of free peoples. How is this done? By emergency procedure, so changed into a 15-day procedure, no public debate. It's not good. You, Prime Minister, invite us to participate in the realization of this project. We understand that as a sign of your goodwill...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24889	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24890	I'm done. This is not a party issue, this is a matter of state institutions to implement...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24891	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24892	Can you tell me the time that's left?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24893	You have one minute and 32 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24894	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, Prime Minister, I will once again ask you a question – how is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is unconstitutionally reducing pensions, reducing salaries to educational and health workers, and based on the contract...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24895	Mr Bozovic, since it has been 24 hours, if you have forgotten the agenda, let me repeat, since you are talking about something that has nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24896	If you allow me and return the time, and on the basis of the 1974 contract between Mr Branko Pesic, as mayor, and "The Railways of Serbia" the land of the Sava amphitheatre belongs to the Belgrades, and you give it to the investor and you try to make one investor, who is someone's friend, a privileged investor in the country. At the end of "Belgrade on Water" the SNS ran and lost those elections in 2012, so we can say that they are citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24897	Thank you. You're past the time the MP has, and so are you. Thank you. Alexander Jovicic reporting. Yes, the final word by procedure then the prime minister corresponds to everyone in Article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24898	Thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't spend any more time because we really heard everything today. We heard that citizens will repay a three-and-a-half billion-euro loan, and the investment is three-and-a-half billion euros. So it has nothing to do with the loan. We have contracts from 75, 76 years old, Mr Bozovic carried it a little bit on some shows, but the citizens didn't understand what he was going to say. I don't think she'll understand that in the next period. However, when we talk about today's debate, I have concluded that the former regime has a good idea for Serbia and the citizens are left to assess how good it is for the quality of their lives and the future, which is that we are doing nothing. Nothing to do and to live by tradition because whatever you want to do and to do, you're going to disrupt tradition, monuments, culture, the whole country. I'm sorry, but what do we keep from your period? Name one thing. Just tell me what to keep from your period. We have nothing to save from your time but misery. I'm done. Speaking of lex specialis, I forgot today to remind myself that in 2010, one such law was passed, Lex Specialis Mirko Cvetkovic in 2010, with limited validity of the Law on Incentives of the Construction Industry in the Conditions of the Economic Crisis. Under its auspices, more than 300 projects including the construction of 4,616 apartments that today form Stepa Stepanovic's settlement on Vozdovac were approved. These are social apartments that were later worth 1,300 euros per square cent. I just don't know what social security is. It may be social for you because you filled your pockets, so it was easy for you to buy, for the people it wasn't social. One more thing I want to point out, this project that you adopted as a special law is funded from the budget, and you knew you were in debt, and this law that we're adopting today is funded by investment and citizens can't have anything wrong with it, just fine. Don't be nervous, because with today's performance, criticising something good for Serbia, you certainly fight to be below the censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24899	Thank you. Alexander Vukitch, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24900	I can't use this device, definitely. I want to finally, Madam President, or President, as modernly said to you now, all the MPs, all the guests from the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and the other guests, to thank you for everything they've done today. I will try my last effort to respond to something you taught Mr. Bozovic as a poem, obviously a stupid content, a song, and every day you repeat it all day. You who cut wages and pensions, so I guess when you increase it to 78 turns per minute with 33 twists, then it seems to you that someone will believe you. You cut your salaries and pensions. Unfortunately, I had to admit the reality. Not only the salaries and pensions, Serbia would end up in bankruptcy if you continued to rule, so today there is no danger of bankruptcy. I am now telling you, before the end of the term of office of this government, that pensions and salaries will be higher than at the beginning of the mandate and that we will have less unemployment and that we will have a sustainable economy, because we will increase someone's income and spend our budget just because we have to win elections or agree to a coalition, we will not work. That's why your economic ventures have never been supported by anyone in the world, never by anyone. People in the world laughed at you because they didn't know how you could take the country to the ambis so successfully. Today, the government of Serbia, all of whom mean something in the world economy, supports its, above all, economic reforms, political ones that some do not, the European way some not, but economic reforms absolutely everyone. We will cure our country, but we will cure this kind of irresponsibility in which you can say whatever you want, to talk about how someone will take something to the Belgraders, and I guess you've assigned it to the Belgraders with all these big rats, wrecks, this cemetery of wagons and ships, with all this dirt, that's what you've assigned to the Belgraders. Unlike you, I think that both Belgrade and Serbian citizens deserve a cleaner place, deserve an orderly place, mowing a lawn mower, hair or anything you haven't eaten, and you haven't cleaned anything up, and you haven't done anything about it. Someone remembered they were doing it. You asked again for competitions, you held 20 contests, none of them gave you fruit, because you never had an investor. It was only for you to publish in "Blica", "24 Hours", and to say, this is what it looks like, which was a better picture for you and these objects, and that made you more satisfied. You were telling fairy tales, and then by auto-projection you wanted to transfer us to dream dreams that were invaluable. We dream dreams, but we work on them to make them come true, and that's what we're different about. You said again, what's the point, if she's like this, if she's like that, you said she's going, they're going into the private room to go private. No, it is expounded to go to the state and Article 4 of Article 1 states that the Republic of Serbia, represented by the State's Attorney General for the user of expropriation, is to be designated. You knew it all, and you read it all, and you heard the answers to it many times today. You said you didn't hear how much it would cost, expropriation, or anything else, and you heard it. We can't tell you exactly, our estimate is about 40 million euros, so far 850 million dinars have been allocated from the budget. So, we gave you these exact figures today, I think this is my 50th time to repeat. But someone wants to hear it, someone never wants to hear it. What I am concerned about today, just one thing, I am grateful to you anyway, I think the debate was more fruitful, more moderate and rational than I expected. Just one thing that got me a little bit worried, didn't scare me because I'm not particularly timid and I understand the reality and the power of someone, but I'm scared by someone's intention that three speakers today are threatening some kind of unrest and streets. I didn't understand anything, is it a rush to power somewhere, you can't wait for elections or understand that the people won't, that you have so few votes that you can't win power in any local community in Serbia, let alone at the Republican level. So threaten Ukraine, so threaten the street as an institution. I warn you, don't threaten Serbia with streets, Serbia is full of streets, Serbia is eager and hungry for work, Serbia is eager and hungry for order, Serbia is eager and hungry for progress. And in the end, do not underestimate those whom you threaten with the street; not all of them are as timid as some were, so they fled from you with sticks, sometimes without poles, there are some who will not run away from you; there are some people who choose, so they will not be pleased with you. We're threatening to say we won't run. I'm sorry, when we say we're not going to run, it's a very serious threat. I just want to tell you that you don't have to defend people from another parliamentary group, and I'm going to quote all three of you from one who says that the street is becoming an institution, to the other one who says don't be surprised when things are solved on the street and so on. If they're not threats, I don't know what they are. I just want to tell you that I'm not fascinated by these threats. I'm not a little fascinated by those threats, I'm not scared at all, but I'm worried about the irresponsibleness of people who say things like that. I would never say such words, never with such a thing would I come to the National Assembly, and especially not, if it were threatened by the authorities, to threaten those who are 16 years in power today. To threaten the closest associates of the chief of the duchy regime. You really think we should bend down and slowly, quietly come out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, counting how brave and strong you are, with all six, or as much as seven, six or seven percent, if Tadic shows up for three days, he will fall to five and a half. That's what you're gonna do on the street, you're gonna threaten someone with it. Please don't do this, don't do it for yourself, don't do it for Serbia either. Serbia deserves much more than your threats to Ukraine, the Ukrainian scenario, than your threats to the streets. We watched what it looked like, and today you're embarrassingly erasing those videos of how you lynched some people both in this building and in a building that's not far from us. It's the only thing that got me worried today. For everything else, honourable Members of the People, I am grateful to you. Once again, to those of you who think differently, who have different ideas, I think we've answered many of your questions today. We're always ready to accept every control of you, every kind of control, every participation in joint work in joint projects, if you like. If you do not want, we will continue in this way to meet our goals, to fight for the interests of the people with great energy, great power and to you, Mr Babiæ, and to all MPs who have managed to endure this moment. As you can see, our MPs weren't worth enough to stay in the O.R. until now, but that tells you about something, don't get angry, about working habits. It's been a easier day for me today, and I think I was the one in the O.R. who didn't come out. So pay attention, and it's my job to at least tell you from the SNS to be more diligent, more valuable, and we're going to push this job and push it on the line, not just the people in Belgrade, but the entire people in Serbia, all the citizens of our country, and we're always going to do that. Thank you all very much for being here and holding out late at night.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-07-0.u24901	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. I thank the Prime Minister, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Mayor of Belgrade and their associates. Tomorrow, it's 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milorad Stosic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the motion for a decision to elect a judge who is first elected to the judicial functions. According to Articles 89 and 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Miroljub Tomic, an election member of the High Council of the Judges and Vesna Janjic, an independent adviser at the Department of Status Affairs of the Judges at the High Council of the Judiciary. You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the High Council of the judiciary, as well as a report by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Do you want the word of Proposer Miroljub Tomic, election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges?
