ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44275	Thank you, Madam President. We in Article 2 have changed attitude 3. In Article 5, in point 2, we replaced "parents" with the words "legal advocates", and the point is finally replaced by a comma and the words are added, "with evidence of the fulfillment of the prescribed conditions". In Article 5 after point 5, point 5a is added, which reads as "Defence Ministry". So Article 5 speaks of a tax on the use of non-payment motor vehicles, so we saw these remarks accordingly. I see the amendment has not been accepted, so I'd like the minister to tell me why our suggestion regarding the Ministry of Defense has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44276	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted together to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44277	Thank you. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the proposal of the Ministry of Finance is that Article 21, which is referred to in Article 11, reads: "The tax on registered weapons is paid for each calendar year, on the registered weapon established by this law, on an automatic rifle, a semi-automatic rifle, a personal security weapon for which an armed gun-holding list has been issued. We have proposed to exempt from the collection of collectors' weapons, since the trophy weapon is a fire and cold weapon that is kept as a memory and which represents the owner's personal or family trophy, so we believe it should be excluded from paying these taxis. You refused our proposal, so I'd like you to explain to me, Mr. Minister, why it must be paid for the firearms used and used, whether for hunting or for personal protection. I understand there's a tax to be paid for, but why the collector's weapon? Why do we punish people who are collectors and who collect it for the history of our people, the history of mankind?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44278	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an example of how many representatives of the former regime care about the citizens of Serbia. So they're asking to exclude a trophy weapon from taxation. The very way of identifying tax bases is proportionate to the economic power of citizens. First, some citizens feel they need weapons for personal safety, protecting their family, their property, and therefore pay a fee. But those who collect weapons, we have to be clear, it's a very expensive hobby. It's a luxury thing, it's not a matter of opinion. It's a matter of desire, not having to. That's why this amendment should not be accepted. Not to mention that collector's and trophy weapons are far more expensive than the weapons used for personal safety. I think one of these amendments is contrary to the principles of tax policy that someone who does it out of a hobby owns a collector's weapon and doesn't pay taxes on it. I think it's very inappropriate for today's situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44280	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44281	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear citizens, here you can see the diametric difference between the policy advocated by the ruling regime and what we advocate. I would not agree with a respected colleague, for a simple reason – if it weren't for those collectors, there would be no National Museum. It's a solitaire, it's a hobby, and all these people eventually hand it over to their original museum in their place, or they hand it over to the National Museum and that's how collections are formed. I think this should be excluded, because the collectors of this law will be very taxed, they'll pay taxes for something they'll probably leave to their people, and that's something that fills our museums. That's why I think, Mr. Minister, you should respect our request and our proposal and exempt this weapon from paying for taxis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44282	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44283	Let's get something straight first. The basic law, where the tax on use, holding and carrying goods was introduced, brought by your friend, colleague, Bozidar Djelic. It's his law. We're doing his law now. And don't talk to me about museums anymore, about this, about that. It's about a hobby that's very expensive and it's about a hobby where a trophy and collector's arms trade makes a lot of money. Well done to those who give gifts to museums. When he presents to the museum, he has no obligation to pay taxes anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44284	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44285	Once again, the difference between the current regime and those of us who once created laws is evident. The creation of Bozidar Djelic is not the Holy Scriptures. Anything that's written and not good, needs to be fixed. I suggest that the minister plead and accept our proposal, so that collectors deprive of payments, i.e. Freed these taxis that can be astronomical, because it's not one piece of weaponry, it's a whole collection and it needs to be freed from fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44286	The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44287	Thank you. We have proposed to delete each member, because we believe that this whole law should not be passed, since together with 73 other laws, we did not have time to even discuss in principle to mention, or at least read the title of this law. Why? Because we didn't have a chance to talk about whether this is actually how we charge tradition, as Mr Blagoje Bradić said. Do we charge tradition? How much does it take to make money? How much would that tax be decent for someone who deals with that hobby? Because this isn't England, so this hobby is very expensive. This is Serbia, so this hobby is primarily something about tradition. If you consider this law to be good, you will charge citizens something that has been inherited for hundreds of years by their ancestors, and I don't think that's the right way to regulate this area. Perhaps we could talk about how much that tax could be and whether it was necessary to introduce her or not. I might be able to agree with you, Mr. Arsic, but unfortunately, we haven't had time for that. For this reason, we have suggested that the whole law be deleted, because we bring it in quick and because we cannot see the consequences that it will cause the citizens of Serbia and those who really care about tradition, or some family tradition, which is established in our people. That's why I think this member should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44288	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44289	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 12 refers to Article 22. The law also states: “The obligation to pay taxes on registered weapons is made on the day of the issue of an armed list, i.e. collector’s licenses, i.e. to carry arms, for the weapons referred to in Article 21 of this Act.” We absolutely agree that for hunting weapons, personal protection weapons should be paid taxes and that's something that's normal, but we suggest that collector's licenses be excluded from taxi payments. Mr. Minister, I know that there is a strong desire to fill the budget, as-so, but I don't think that in this way we need to tax the citizens of Serbia, especially those who collect this trophy, collector's weapon, weapons that cannot be used for their primary purpose, because it is more historic heritage than something that can be used for personal protection, nor are they collecting it for it. So I'm asking you to reconsider. We'll have a set of amendments regarding the collector's weapons, and please consider and accept our proposal. It's not a big income in the Republic's budget, based on collector's weapons, but you'll show a desire, intent, an idea to potential, i.e. to encourage the gathering of these trophy weapons that I repeat once again ends up in one of the museums of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44290	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44291	Ladies and gentlemen, by respecting the arguments my colleague, Mr Arsic made when it comes to collectors, I will ask another question – is it possible to abuse this term "collectile weapons" and thus avoid the obligation to pay taxes on weapons? Is this term “collective weapons, ” or permit, well defined enough to avoid possible abuses throughout the process? I'm not sure what could fall under a collector's weapon, and maybe a minister on that side could spread information. It seems to me that the ministry's intensity was precisely to prevent any kind of abuse, since it is still about people who are decent in property, as my colleague Arsic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44292	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44293	In order to avoid misunderstandings, the concept of a collection permit is introduced by this law because it has already been introduced by other laws. So we're just adapting this law to what's already been introduced. This doesn't affect a trophy weapon that's as old as it used to be, so the weapons that aren't the subject of this taxation are hunting weapons, sports weapons, they used to be trophy now called incapacitated weapons and old weapons. They weren't the subject of taxation, and they weren't today. The only difference is that the concept of a collector's licence is introduced and more weapons can be in one collection, a united tax is paid, the level of tax burden is not changed, only the law is aligned with the change in the law proposed by the MUP. So we can offer you detailed estimates of all of this. What's very important is that the collector's license is introduced in addition to these standard licenses for the armed holding list and the gun-carrying licenses, it's a collector's license, that's the only difference, otherwise there's no other difference. So if that weapon is disabled, you need to cut the needle and so on, it's not subject to taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44294	Thank you. The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, together by Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44295	I would like to thank the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Guests. Just because I think you're trying to fill the budget in such a quick way, I don't think we're going to do anything at all, nor will the revenue in the budget of this tax be significant, if we're going to pass laws in this way, where we're just going to cut new taxes, where we're going to increase them or coordinate them with some inflation, and other taxes, when it comes to, and some other prices, which concern the basic needs of citizens, do not harmonize or often do not comply with the inflation rate. What's very important here is to stress that the tax on registered weapons is one thing, and for a trophy and collector it's completely something else, and I think it's very important that both profits be and will be indexed for the rate of inflation, not just taxes and in this case, this one that will question in a certain way whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia actually has the intention or us as MPs, to propose to the citizens the law, or to end up adopting a law that will charge tradition. That may not be the end of it wisely and wisely, but again, we haven't had time to discuss it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44296	The word has Goran Kovacevic, then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44297	The bottom line is that this law does not lead to an increase in tax revenues, and the essence is what the minister just said, if you followed the Arms Act, you know that a new complete category, called collector's weapons, has been introduced and was previously in the category of weapons and to which the gun tax has been paid before, has been held and carried. Now as before, the trophy weapon that is defined clearly, neither now nor now, will be charged with taxes, except that for a trophy weapon it will be a precisely defined mechanism when it becomes a trophy, because it is a weapon that cannot be used, whether by making a cap or boiling a pipe, and what is a collector's weapon, is actually a weapon that can be used, which is physically correct and located in the gun category earlier, so that this law is fiscally neutral and these changes completely fiscally neutralise the increase in budgets, but rather retain the level of taxation at the same level as before this law. So the bottom line is just a termological definition introduced by the arms tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44298	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44299	I have to say for our viewers and for the MPs here in the Assembly, it's completely incorrect that it's quick, this was prepared October of the month and handed over two and a half weeks ago to the Assembly, it's completely incorrect that it was hasty, it was done because of the alignment with the amendments to the arms law that you discussed here and brought here yourself, and it's completely incorrect that there was an increase in revenue in the budget. For existing weapons, it doesn't increase by a dinar of revenue from the budget, only if people increase the holding of weapons, but it's already a matter that depends on the behaviour of collectors, on income, etc. Therefore, all your claims are completely incorrect, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44300	Do you want the replica? What do you say? All your claims are incorrect?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44301	I would like to thank the President of the National Assembly. Minister Vujovic, then we'll agree. Since this is a particular hobby that works very few people in Serbia, it is very negligible and then representatives of the ruling majority, when it comes to MPs who support you, and you have personally just said one thing that I am fully in agreement with. So this won't contribute to an increase in funds when it comes to the budget, so why don't we define clearly what's called a trophy weapon, what's called a collector's weapon, and on the other hand, what's a registered weapon. All right, let's cancel the tax then. You say the tax is negligible, she's fiscally neutral, we cancel the tax and we support your law, okay? You just said that, absolutely like your colleague in the ruling majority, you said very Decidently that there are no big revenues, when it comes to the budget. Why are we introducing a tax, if it's not our goal to have a higher income, a higher tax income and a higher budget charge? So let's pass this law, by taking this tax, as I understand Mr. Bradic as well, so that he will agree to such a solution, we will cancel the tax that even a small number of people who are engaged in this hobby, protect, and on the other hand, you will define more precisely if that is your intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44302	Replica, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44303	I absolutely didn't mention any of the words you pointed to in your replica. I said it's not true that it's hasty, that it's being introduced because of the budget, but because of the adjustment of this law, the Arms Act, and I said there wouldn't be a dinar of additional funds in the budget, unless the number, or the holder, of the number that is classified as collector's weapons is changed. So there's no need to answer to the rest of the part, which is absolutely made up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44304	Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this discussion very interesting, and we have come to the conclusion that this sport, or hobby, is very expensive. Someone says there's very few people who do business, so let's write it off, don't pay for it. Now it reminds me of a comic book by Alan Ford, who kidnapped the poor and gave the rich, and it seems to me that you did it in that theory, you did it while you were in power. You've taken from the poor and made richer and richer, and that's why we won't accept this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44306	The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44307	Of course, the arms tax is fiscal income in the fiscal year and it is not controversial and it is nothing new. All those with weapons are aware that during the fiscal year they must pay that fiscal burden, or tax. The bottom line is, with these changes, we contribute to increasing budget revenues on this basis, and whether weapons are trophy or weapons for which taxes are paid, that cannot be defined by this law. This is the law, first of all, of the fiscal order. You have the Arms Act, where we clearly define what's trophy, what's collectorial and what's other weapons. Just one question, so it'll be easier to clear up the misunderstandings. Where, before the amendments to the law and this law, was the collector's weapon? It was simply in the fiscal category of weapons, so I think the problem with not understanding the previous law or not reading that law is insufficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44308	Members of the parliamentary group BORIS TADIĆ, SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted together to the 13th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44309	Thank you. The same Article 13 refers to the collection permits, and I think it's clear to the citizens of Serbia what we're talking about here. The majority wants to go after the latter to take the biggest tax, and we call it the dry-drunk, nine drops in dry-drunk, and the tenth one doesn't exist, Mr. Minister. According to this bill, point 3 is said: the personal security weapon for which an armed list has been issued, for the holding of a weapon, i.e. a collector's license, 3.440, and you say that the tax on registered weapons is to be paid in an annual amount per piece of arms. That's what we're talking about. On the one hand, the essence of the MUP is that every piece of weapon is registered. On the other hand, thanks to you, unemployment is catastrophic, getting bigger and bigger. You say, former regime, and I say, present. You say yellow, and I say they're not yellow, they were gold. You're a miracle, but besides that, I suggest we relieve people of making unnecessary tax obligations, because there's enough giving in the Republic of Serbia and you're looking at the income side, just by filling it up, through an increase in taxes. People, the income side of the budget is increasing by the number of people employed in Serbia, by economic growth, not by increasing taxes. You can't always raise your taxes. Normally everything has to be taxed, but everything has to be meaningful and tailored to the current financial situation and the opportunities of every citizen to pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44310	The word is Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44311	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, certainly given that for 12 years it was not enough for colleagues from what they call the former regime to do, to do what they should have done, they did not have time to read everything they needed to read and did not have time to make a real and quality state. What is important, this amendment, of course, should be rejected and it should be explained once and for all, that the charge of the budget is not only taxed, and that in the earlier period the tax was not charged to any of those of whom, of course, it had to be charged, and the revenue side was much harder to charge, and it was charged exclusively from the pockets of the poor. The rich were protected from paying taxes. That's the problem with the former regime. At this point, for all we know, it's the essential thing, the tax just has to be paid and it's simple and the right and obligations of every citizen if he expects to have a normal legal state where normal incomes are and where the income side can always count on normal assets that can be planned for next year. A fellow opposition says he didn't have time to read. They, I don't think they've had time to do anything for this country, and they've had all 12 years in the Republic and all 15 years in the province, and as a result, it's also the result of the number of MPs in the National Assembly, but I will return to the amendment. Of course, the amendment should be rejected. Tax is a simple thing that is both the right and the obligation of every citizen who wants good for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44312	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44313	Madam Chairman, the president of the National Assembly, I think the amendment holder is a little insulting to our intelligence. And that, I can say, is very, very rude because here in the Assembly when we were in charge of Serbia, and this government must pay back their debts, pressed the button he or some of his other DS counterparts, who supported Boris Tadic, to be in charge of the state. Now we're paying back those debts, and where we're going to pay them back, rather than taxes. When he talks about the number of unemployed, let those 200,000 people who lost their jobs during the government of Boris Tadic and DS go around and tell them that Vukic is guilty of losing his job. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44314	I have to wait for my colleague to finish first. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: The village man. Are you done? (Veloljub Arsic, from town: Yes) Thank you. I'll only give the replica then. Replica, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44315	I was looking for a replica when my colleague finished his presentation. Of course, repeating those same lies we've been hearing here for three and a half years, that someone else is guilty. I propose colleagues and prime minister that they visit hundreds of thousands of people who lost their jobs in the 1990s, to visit, if they can, hundreds of thousands of people who stayed out of their homes while they led Serbia, to visit hundreds of thousands of people who left Serbia while they led Serbia. What this government did in those 12 years, that is, in 12 years there were many authorities and there were many authorities where your coalition partners were. The fact is, the SRS was an opposition to those 12 years. In those 12 years, average earnings have increased from 30 to over 400 euros. The government debt has been reduced from 200% of GDP in debt, the external debt has been reduced to 45. So all these results that citizens know, that we're not talking about rebuilding the country after the bombing, how much it's done on Eurointegration, reconciliation in the region, investigating and punishing war criminals, fighting crime and corruption. These are all the results the citizens know, and this here is an empty story that someone else is to blame for Serbia's collapse for three and a half years now, for which most of them are ruling Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44316	Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. Veroljub Arsic, replica? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I apologize to the president, I said "collars", I didn't mention his name, just so I knew if it was the principle that I could report for the future. All right, then, all right, I'm sorry. The criteria apply to everyone. So, let's make it back to the future. Let's move on to the amendments. I accept the suggestion. ` (Veroljub Arsic, from the post: After the amendment. () By amendment he can certainly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44317	Now we've heard one exposé. Let's look at what the average earnings in 2008 were in the euro, what it was in 2012. Let's take a look at that. Now let's see how we're going to replace that difference with 78 dinars, how much was the euro in 2008 with 120 dinars as much as it was in 2012. The difference is, as far as I understand it, 42 dinars, 42 dinars were printed in the National Bank for every euro that was on the market. You can nod your head and move as fast as you want. As for jobs, visit the IMR, visit the IMT, visit the "Draj", visit the MIP Požarec, visit the Animal Food Factory "Poparevac", visit the "Gyto Contact", everything is closed. They were factories that weren't magic. They were workers who weren't magic, and they didn't stop during your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44318	Please return to your collector's licenses. I'm asking everyone in the O.R. The 14th amendment was submitted to the same text by Aleksandra Jerkov and together by Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Do you want a word? (No) Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44319	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers, honored guests, to return to the topic of the agenda, I think it's important for a simple reason, as to whether or not we are going to be dealing with very rare hobbies, very valuable hobbies, to collect weapons that are part of our Serbian tradition, which is part of someone's family tradition, and today we are burdening them with various taxes, various increases in the price of basic life supplies, to electricity, to taxes and other taxis. Now we're introducing a new tax or we're introducing an increase in the price of this hobby, and then we're going to have someone who's going to have that weapon on one side to assume gifts of SUP, and on the other hand, they're going to be able to buy for their salary, for their pension, they're going to be able to buy bread, medicine, or something they need. So here we are talking about an expensive hobby that exists in England. In Serbia it is an integral part of tradition and it is not all business, Minister, but there is something called art and respect for art, respect for tradition, and then we have a big problem here, and how do you reason towards those who really keep the tradition of Serbia or one day give their entire legacy to a museum. Today there would be no museums or most museums in Serbia if it weren't for those people that we are now trying to destimulate in a way, by introducing some tax that you yourself said wasn't a huge revenue in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44320	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44321	So I have to repeat the same things, there's no new tax being introduced, what's being introduced is a change in Article 24 that would happen if we didn't change the law, it would happen by automation, by inflation rate would be increased, the increased taxes that are defined in the old Article 24 of the Law. To be exact, the tax that this is about, for the collector's weapons, it was then a category of ordinary weapons and taxes for those weapons that are not carried outside the house, but only held by 3,400 dinars, and according to this amendment, the law increases by 3,440. That's less than 1.3%, that's less than the inflation rate. If we hadn't changed the law that defines new amounts and then you leave that indexation with the inflation rate, the increase would be bigger. So we've effectively reduced the tax to this. Second, we just added that the collector's weapon goes with this weapon. If you want that weapon and you want to carry it, which has nothing to do with the museums and everything else, then you pay more money, but that's how it was in the old law, it's in the new law. So our Arms Act and, therefore, this law, which is taxed, says that if you want some personal security weapon, not only do you keep it at home, when you pay 3,440 dinars, but you want to carry it, then you pay 17.160 dinars per new one. Give up wearing it, keep it as a collector's weapon at home, you'll pay five times less. Take off his needle, you'll pay for zero. Therefore, this is a clear message from the legislator and the Arms Act. If it's a trophy weapon and, therefore, it's incapacitated, there's no tax. If the weapon held at home because you inherited it from your father or from your grandfather or anyone else, you pay only a basic tax that is five times lower than the tax you pay if you carry that weapon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44322	Time. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 14th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44323	So, respected citizens, I think now it's clear to all of us the proposal's intention - to tax, tax, tax. Our proposal is that the tax be relaxed in that part, that people who have five, six, ten, fifteen pieces of weapons, as the code is called, don't pay for a piece of 3,440 dinars. You're talking, Mr. Minister, about whether it was and it's normal now, and this assembly is here to pass the law whether something is going to be paid or not. That, Mr. Minister, is like when we talked about 2% of your contributions to health care that you transferred to pensions, and that's what this assembly voted for, and that's the law, and you're 300 million euros from health care, hop, you've transferred to pensions, you've disbursed the budget. I'm telling you now, don't burden citizens by paying for the piece of guns they have in their collections. People who can't pay will go well and give it to the SUP, because it's the only way to get a registered weapon, get rid of paying taxes. The only way... (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: Not true. How is it not? Tell that to those who will return it to the SUP. Don't talk to me. I'm paying a fee for my weapons, but tell those who have to hand it over to the SUP because they don't have the money to pay. They used to have, they bought, now they don't, and now they have to hand it over, because they won't be able to pay. I know that you who work in finance, it's your job and I say hello, you look at how to collect income, and it's normal, but it can't be taken anywhere, it has to be relaxed somewhere, it can't just go, come on, come on, come on. There's no minister from around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44324	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44325	The explanation of the SNS and the minister is not better seen than in Article 24, which is clearly stated – the type of weapon charged for tax and the amount of tax to be charged, but does not charge the amount of tax on trophy weapons. If someone wants to do the collection, if someone wants to collect it, if they want to be socially responsible, so they collect that weapon and give it to the museum, if it's a trophy weapon, that's what Serbian citizens don't pay any taxes on weapons. That should be made clear. Just without introducing a trophy weapon and not taxing it, Serbia insists on its history, encouraging people who deal with this kind of collectorship, however expensive it is. So, for all citizens and citizens of Šumadia and Kragujevac, everyone who collects and guards their weapons is family, out of inheritance, if it's trophy, they won't, like so far, pay any kind of tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44326	Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Balša Bozovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44327	We're just talking about one more thing right now. We had a chance today to hear how we had time to prepare the law, etc. So we know what this law is about, but we haven't had time to discuss it. That's two different things, so apparently the minister didn't understand. So we didn't get a chance to talk about him. For this reason, on the one hand, it is our right as opposition MPs, and on the other hand we believe that this tax is completely unreasonable. And for that reason, we've proposed to delete these members, because we don't want the whole law to be passed at all. So when it comes to this thing, we have one damage that we're going to cause by introducing these charges. A man who holds on to his tradition and holds on to collectorship will have to at some point, if he doesn't pay this fee, the weapons to hand over to the SUP. If he doesn't hand over the SUP, just to be completely clear, tomorrow he'll be extra and fined, and he'll be further damaged financially, unless he does, and you're very aware of how hard it is to separate someone from it and how many cases there will be when people won't pay it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, he'll try to take that weapon, not only take it away, but also to charge it and cut the fine. That's the point. Again, we come up with those things we talked about, more or less, about every financial law we've passed and about income and taxes, that we will have, like all citizens of Serbia, huge problems with the perpetrators in 2016, which will knock on the door and solve these things by force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44328	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 15th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44329	So, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Article 15 refers to Article 24, and again we are talking about collecting permits, where we are asking that it be deleted, i.e. to free them from payments or otherwise, if the Ministers have an idea, on reduced payments depending on the number of pieces of weapons. Once again, I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that a trophy weapon becomes by someone having a collective weapon, so over time it becomes a trophy weapon and a historical weapon. So, respected colleagues, someone once had a cubura in the family and it was a weapon that could be used, so over time it became something that ended up in the museum. So these collections, which now have citizens of Serbia and which they have in their homes and that they keep, that's such a hobby, will sometimes be old weapons, but with what we do and with the law that we bring to tax it per piece, people simply won't be able to pay and they'll have to return. The minister said that there are degrees and that whoever wants to carry a gun pays a tax of 17,160 dinars. Yeah, I just don't know if anyone in this room has a license to carry a gun. Mr. Minister, these are very rigorous criteria for someone to get permission to carry a weapon. They usually have official persons in the job description, while we ordinary citizens, call ordinary citizens, who own firearms or some other kind of weapon, we can only have it at home, we can't carry it on the street, there's even a way to carry it from point A to point B. Please once again accept our proposal and finish this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44330	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44331	To make it clear to everyone what this is all about. First, let me remind you of the classification. The subject of taxation is not hunting weapons, sports weapons, trophy weapons called incapacitated weapons and old weapons under the new law. So everything you've said is absolutely unnecessary for the people to worry about. The old carabine, the old cuburas were not subject to taxation and will not be subject to taxation. Secondly, the introduction of a collector's license only makes it easier for people, not financially, but facilitates the procedure of obtaining a license, so in five or six pieces of weapons, which are collectorial, they will receive one permit. It's collections. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Pare. ) Money doesn't change, it just changes the type of license. Secondly, I just have to tell you one thing, your comment here "is deleted" is actually at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, because if article 24 is deleted, then the indexation automation that will be greater than this will take effect. So, you're pushing for an increase in the fees and the removal of the collection license, you can, but just to be clear, you're not helping anyone, you're removing one instrument, you're increasing taxes on all these types of weapons, and what's been excluded remains excluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44332	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44333	Thank you, just to be sure, because this law is no longer just a financial law, but also a law on the knowledge of weapons. I'm giving myself the right to know something a little bit. Collector weapons don't have to be weapons that can't be used. That's what misunderstanding is all about. You have wonderful, great World War I copies that are fully functional. It's being treated like a weapon, which is why taxes should be paid. There's no difference between weapons that can be used and that stems from World War I and the weapons that have been produced in recent years. But a trophy weapon is a weapon that can't be used and that's what's the object of keeping the right collectors. You can have weapons that you keep in the house for personal protection one thing, but you don't need all the other weapons. It's a trophy weapon, and we don't pay taxes, and that's what misunderstanding is about. So, on a collector's weapon that's practically firearms can be used today, regardless of the year of production, it is, exactly, to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44334	Thank you. Dear People's MPs before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade, the participants of the Open Parliament – School programme who are monitoring this part of the session. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44335	Thank you, Madam President, we don't really know what words you say to explain that citizens can't pay anymore. We every time you come to this Assembly, you little by little increase the amounts that citizens need to separate from their home budgets, and all to your famous deficit reduction, which has become self-inflicted, self-sufficient and self-sufficient purpose of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So what you said earlier, that what we're proposing to erase, to increase some of the prices to the citizens, just doesn't make sense, that would make sense if you were to reduce some of the burdens on the citizens, which is certainly not the case here. How can we, if we're trying to keep things the way it was, and you've come with a series of bill proposals to say that 400 dinars aren't much, 400 dinars is someone 10% of all the receipts he has. If you increase them, we suggest that this law be completely deleted. That's what our amendments are all about to delete the whole law and to delete the laws you've passed here. How is it possible, then, that it will be more expensive for the citizens? So all we want to tell you is that citizens can no longer pay and that they can't bear that every time you come to this assembly or raise taxes, or raise taxes, or cut salaries and pensions, or some new imposes on them. So, accept our amendments withdraw these bill proposals because citizens can no longer withstand your reduction of deficits that are financed solely by them while you spend more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44336	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the applicant of the amendment has made a mistake, this is just technical harmonisation of the law with the Arms and Ammunition Act. Nothing more. There are no other new taxes, they say, no new commitments, no new ones. Except that the Law on the Use and Holding and Wearing of goods has been passed, the government of which was Minister Bozidar Djelic, in a people of mercy called Boza Derikoza, suggested. He was sitting with you till yesterday in the benches. Well, why didn't he break the law, but bring it in? Why didn't you stop him while you were in power, if he wasn't good? Now you're taking care of the citizens, now you're worried that we have to pay your debts. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You pay? The government, the government did. I ask the messengers not to give me any money.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44338	The MP is not your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44339	It is no longer paid by a government that was not allowed to wait for Parliament's statement, but suggested by the Prime Minister to disband the assembly. I ask the MPs not to receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44340	Ambassador, it's not your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44341	Yes, it does not pay for the government that should not have waited for the House's statement but was proposed by the Prime Minister to disband the Assembly, to hear what MPs think of it, to show it what they think of it. Now he can't follow the new constitution, he can just throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44342	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44343	Thank you, Madam President. Very short. I would call for the amendment not to be accepted, and above all, I am reporting for this argument that we just heard, which is a very principled character, and it should explain to us that the whole bill of law is directed towards some kind of increase and new imposes on citizens. I can only agree with my colleague Arsic that the amendment promoter obviously did not understand something well. If we look at the content of the law, and this is pointed out in several places, even in the following arguments, to explain to anyone who has possibly failed to understand. What's the subject of these adjustments? Among other things, it is proposed to exempt taxes on the use of motor vehicles for adoptive parents who exercise parental rights over adopted children. So the reductions, just a little concentration wouldn't be a waste. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44344	I can't give the replica purely technical, you weren't in the O.R. So only the shadow was seen and he didn't have anyone to replicate the MP with, so he didn't say his name. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You think it's polite to tell me that I wasn't in the O.R.? You weren't, you didn't insert the card. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: It is my right. No, it's not your right. If you want to participate in the debate, you must be present. How to explain Zivkovic “in the shadow”. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44345	Unlike Mr. Zivkovic, I am in the system, so I will have the opportunity to explain my amendment, which is said to be deleted, for the simple reason why we do not want new accusations, i.e. an increase of new commitments. Both Mr. Arsic and Minister Vujovic and many others who have been dropping out of their seats, not to name them now, are one of them also head of the SNS parliamentary club, talking about this is not about new taxes. Now we all need to be happy with the citizens. This is about tax hikes. As Mrs. Jerkov said earlier, so Article 24. 3440 dinars, if that's not a lot of money, then you're completely not allowed, for example. pensioners to deal with the size of a hobby. Someone retires and wants their life span to be spent on dealing with this hobby according to Serbian tradition, to collect some trophy weapons. He can't do it now because it's 15% of someone's pension. That's what this is about, because I repeat 1,000 times, that you've given birth to the people. You don't know how these young people live up on the balcony, you don't know how their parents live, how their grandparents live. You think that according to your environment, the people of Serbia live. That's not true. Only you live better, while the rest of us live much worse. That's what this is about, and that's the point. The basis of your lack of understanding of life in Serbia. It is easy from Dipos's villas and cars of the government of the Republic of Serbia to watch life and darkened glass. So it's very important 3440 dinars are someone's 10.15% pension. That can't be, as you say, negligible force. Absolutely not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44346	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44347	Unlike the previous speaker, I'll talk about the amendment. Because here a series of MPs talk about everything, on a free topic, and talk about everything and everything, just not the amendment. What I am proposing earlier is to delete Article 2 which is amended and read – the Republic Authority of the Administration in charge of internal affairs, the data referred to in Article 1 shall be provided to the competent tax authority within 15 days from the date of issue of the armed list, the legality and acquisition of the importance of the application, transfer, acquisition, appearance and other facts etc. Where's the new load? Is there one single digit in Article 16 of this bill, in the position of 2nd of this bill? Don't distract more people in Serbia. Don't worry about whether someone's had a baby or not. You know, we don't run politics from your cafes. We don't run a policy from your companies, we don't run a policy from overpriced suits of several thousand euros, we don't run a policy with watches left at home that are worth how much, so a good apartment in Belgrade, we don't run a policy from the overpriced cars that you came in, that you parked outside the House of the National Assembly. You know, that's what people in Serbia know, feel, know how they lived until 2012. They know how the building was built from the pastures and how it came to that pasture and do not worship what you did, what you do today, to transfer to someone else. Are you saying that Mr. Arsic had his birthday, you're saying he's not coming today in the same car that he was driving in 2006 and 2008? What dark glass? You sir who cast me, although you have no right to do so, I once changed the average hour with you. You want us to change the cars we came in? You want us to change the cars we drove in? You're born. Well, come on, I'm ready. Are you ready, you who so take care of young people and all people in Serbia, and all the difference between the value of your car and mine, and that difference is in several tens of thousands of euros, I will donate that these young people who are now on the balcony to get to work easier. I'll give them everything. Are you ready? Here, you have a chance to stand up and say it now. Right now, we're gonna go outside and do it. You who care so much about people in Serbia, show that you care.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44348	The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44349	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. So, Mr. Babico, you once lost an hour for the simple reason that you were rude, because you mentioned my family in a context that absolutely doesn't stand on one side. On the other hand, I thought that's when you came to your senses. I don't know if you have a watch on your hand that you left at home. So it's your confession, I'm not getting into it. I don't have, well, for the simple reason I didn't have anything to trade with you. When it comes to a car or any part of my property, I told you that I'm trading all my property with yours. All of it, absolutely all of it, and since you offered me a few tens of thousands of euros for my cars, we can now sign a purchase contract, but right now. The fact that you're trying to represent yourself as someone who's actually been in the same suit coming, as far as, 12 or 15 years crossing from one party to the third party, the people of Vranjska Banja know better than I do. You think by what you're going to do, you're going to make someone who lives 10 times worse in Serbia today than they did in 2012, prove what? That you're taking care of him? If you care about these people, I urge you not to adopt this law, because these are new impositions, because it's a new addition and let's agree together to take care of people by not burdening them with new additions. That's my suggestion to you, not that I'm here competing with you who has more or who has less. You can see everything I have on the site, since my property is public unlike yours. You can do anything. And I'm always ready to change everything with you. Absolutely everything, except for the suit, because I'd be so much bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44350	Thank you, thank you very much. Please make that exchange as soon as possible after you've offered. Advantage is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then we'll continue with the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44351	I called before you gave your word to Mr. Bozovic. I think in the course of Mr. Babic's exposure, you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I have a question – did he get the word by amendment or as a replica? If he won as a replica, then I'm advertising Article 104, which refers to the duration of the replica, and if he spoke according to the amendment, then I ask you to pay attention to article 106, because if Mr Babic talked about the amendment, in a strange way he talked about the amendment, so tell us, if we can all talk about the agenda in such a way, that he'll apply himself to all that rule, so that we all know that we can talk about whatever we want and insult our colleagues here, but also that we know that we're doing so today so that we can adopt all that way too?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44352	By amendment. One part of the injury is not worth it, according to the amendment, so he could spend his MP's time the way he wanted to spend it. You know, if I let the DS MP, Mr Balša Bozovic, speak in his own personal way about the amendment to Article 16(2). - deleted, then I must allow my colleague Babic to discuss Article 16(2) in his own way. - It's wiped out. I have to have the same criteria, but that doesn't apply to the entire debate. How someone sets up their discussion is how the others will be led. The word is Veroljub Arsic. (Zoran Babic, from place: Replication to the exhibition of Balša Bozovic. No, this was an injury. Veroljub Arsic has been begging me for a long time to give him a replica of the first exposure of Balša Bozovic, so I will give it to you. If we finish, Gordana Komic will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just for the record here is an increase of 40 dinars. So, from 3,400 to 3,440, which is indexation, and that's what the law says, but you have to read the whole law, and you don't get caught by one member. As for alienation from the citizens and about how anyone lives, I can go among my members of the party without anyone alone, I am among the citizens, I am on the street and I can place the property of all my family members and related to the fifth generation on the right and later line from 2001 to the day I became an MP to the day of all my acquaintances, all my associates too. I'm not supposed to bet a colleague who called me if I'd alienated myself from the citizens can do the same. It is that his property was reduced by one apartment that he donated to the DS, but she gave him much more, especially while he was painting Belgrade and these are the debts we are paying back today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44354	Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44355	Since I've had an allusion to my physical constitution, you know, I still need a shampoo for my hair unlike some other MPs here. On the other hand, no one from my family or any other family was the director of "Tasa", no one from my immediate family, and at least the parent was not the director and owner of "Serbian" and series of other companies and companies. Unlike some who have a problem reporting property, they now have litigation with the Anti-Corruption Agency on undeclared pastures on Vrakar, my property has been reported and I have nothing to be ashamed of. I see someone's running away from the theme of car change. I'd like my colleague to come forward and say which car he drove in front of the National Assembly and let's check it out. I come every day with a car that was bought and produced in 2005, which is 11 years old "Hundai Tucson", which I don't believe is worth more than several thousand euros, I haven't even asked and I'm ready to change right now to change the car with the previous speaker. I don't mean a colleague of Arsic's, of course. I see he's already running off to some sales contracts now, how much he's been offered, how much he hasn't been offered, and I don't know what. I'm sure by the car I offered him, I think he'd be ashamed to go to the market, but it's even weirder that someone without a day's work experience and how with their first job in politics...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44356	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44357	... to acquire as much property as he has.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44358	Time's up. Thank you. Gordana Komic, please. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44359	Thank you. The amendment submitted by counterpart Balsa Bozovic should be accepted. For all those who have the only argument not to discuss the amendment, each of these members refers to tax hikes. So, if this attitude says the issue of an armed list - data delivery, a judicial solution - data delivery, it's about what the legitimate government wants, and that's an increase in the amount of everything in terms of carrying and holding goods. That's how it's going to be in art. 17 and 18. Article 20 when it comes to order, it is the funniest of all members, but those who treat any obligation to supply data, update data, issue solutions, refer to what the government wants for greater amounts. We will not and therefore do not want this new law to be amended and updated in force, but to be the law that is now in force, which implies reduced amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44360	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted the 16th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44361	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear citizens, here, today I have had the honor of listening to a talk about weapons, everything about this law, and I've been taught what's trophy, what's a museum specimen, what's a collector's weapon, etc. And after all these discussions, there remains something that is immutable and that I have failed, unfortunately, to run from a dead spot and change in another direction, which is that you will pay more from the beginning of the application of this law for every piece of weapons you have in your collection, whether or not you can, and that your only chance will be to sell it. The question is if anyone can buy it, because in order for him to buy it, he has to get permission to own a weapon. At worst, you'll give it to the Home Office nicely, because that's the only way you won't be sanctioned by the bailiffs if you don't pay your taxes. That's a fact. So, my intention was to end that tax for collectors, or to reduce it if it couldn't be lifted, but here the Ministry solved, as I say, that it was draining dry dreno. I don't know how much longer he can do that, but I do know that when to take it, he can, and when to give it, he doesn't like to do it. I'll remind Mr. Secretary that, in accordance with Article 22. The Health Protection Act, the ministry is obliged to pay contributions for 970,000 Serbian citizens, amounting to 11,000,000,000, and they predicted this year, I mean the ministry, 668,000,000 dinars, amounting to 5.4 euros per insured person. Is there anyone who can be treated for 5.4 euros a year? That's what the citizens will say and I think they'll tell you in the election. I'm still asking you to accept our proposal and disbursement the citizens too burdened with fiscal giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44362	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44363	I'm even willing to vote for this amendment, if the Members of Parliament can make one thing clear to me. For example, you have weapons of luger and valter from 1938, whose collection value is approximately 3,500 euros. You have a modern, state-of-the-art weapon that is quite popular, Glock 17, which costs 800 euros. Both weapons are in the 9 mm class, both of which are usable. What's fiscal justice? To free the one who pays the weapons of 3,800 euros from the compensation, and to introduce a compensation to this one of 800 euros? So the bottom line is that the collector's weapon is a firearm, and that's why taxes are to be paid. It is indisputable that everyone in Serbia would like the tax to be lower, but we live in an expensive state. As we have come to the state expensive, it is a second question, but so the expensive state must definitely finance itself, and we in the SNS are doing everything to make sure that when these costs are fixed, interest and principal payments are passed, the state of Serbia begins to cut its taxes, including this tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44364	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44365	Thank you. Here, as a reason why my amendment is rejected, the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the absence of sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of this law could lead to tax indiscipline and to disprove the tax system on the basis of the tax on use, adherence and the carrying of goods. Let's practice a little tax discipline on what you owe a lot of taxes and on those economic operators you hold as privileged, who owe millions and hundreds of millions for taxes, for those televisions, for those economic operators, for those of your business partners who don't pay taxes. To watch a little bit here to increase tax revenues and introduce tax discipline, not to give you a month-to-month tax charge, as your data that you publish every month, and not something that DS or anyone from the opposition says. So, don't practice tax discipline and tax strictness on citizens who, see, maybe in retirement they want to have fun, to collect some kind of weapon, but to practice on all those people who owe hundreds of millions for taxes, who have a very privileged position in this country. Why, if you care so much about tax discipline, do you fall from month to month in all taxes according to the data that you publish? If it's so important at once that tax discipline can't be erased by this member we're looking for, and the truth is that every member of this law is talking about tax hikes, then why is the charge of all taxes dropping, except of course VAT? Because it's clear that VAT collection is dropping because people are spending less and less because of your duties and your fiscal measures have less and less money.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44366	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44367	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest, of course, that this amendment be rejected. I had no intention of answering, but I was asked to discuss the previous pay phone, especially the part in which she pointed out that there was a lower tax charge than it was before. On the contrary, the situation is completely different. Well, we have today incomparably higher taxes in the state than at the time you exercised power. If that's the case, I'll only read you one sentence. In August of this year, the state charged three billion dinars of more gross domestic value added tax than in the same month last year. Last year, it was incomparable again than last year, and so on. So, please, it's a really faceless lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44368	Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44369	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, honored guests, we continue to think that for every law, which we stand for or against, it must be in line with what is the interest of the people who live in Serbia. We have proposed to delete all members of this law because we want to delete the entire proposal, or we want it not to be adopted. We have a situation in which some older generations, including Professor Micunovic, today with us, in the Second War, freed the country from fascism, freed Serbia, freed Yugoslavia, kept the weapons, which eventually became a trophy, and then came into the situation that because of the lack of 3,500 or 3,000 dinars, however little that collection was to you, someone was enormous, because of 10 or 15 percent of someone's pensions, they returned that weapon to the SUP. That, of course, is not the case with Professor Micunovic. But in any case, these are examples that make life in Serbia today. For that reason, we think it's wrong to look for every possible situation where you can rip someone's dinar out of your pocket. Especially today in Serbia when citizens are getting poorer and poorer. If we're going to talk about the average salary, all I know is that in Belgrade in 2012, the average salary was 470 euros, and today, 40 and a few euros is the lower average salary in the capital. Imagine only in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44370	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44371	I don't know what your discussion is about. The member to whom your amendment is to be deleted is a member who speaks of sanctioning the non-compliance of this law and I don't think you can accept your request to delete it, since a law without sanctions is not a logical law. As for your second sentence on whether someone should pay a tax on trophy weapons, in the previous article of the amendment, in point 4) says that the Republic Authority of the Administration, in charge of internal affairs etc., will inform that the shortened tax authority, and point 4) – the application of weapons incapacitation. So if anyone has a weapon, a trophy weapon, cuts off his needle, reports it, the SUP will report it to the tax authority, and that weapon will no longer be taxed, it's very simple. In doing so, since you're erasing everything, then you're making a total mess of course. Legal vacuum is chaos. It says right here, if you're costing 3,400 dinars under the old law or 3,440 per new change or 3,444 as much as it would be per formula, then report that weapon, cut the needle, and you won't pay for anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44372	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44373	I don't know where this data is coming from now, sir, the applicant of the amendment mentions some 470 euros, he's probably confused something in the course of the euro, probably counting a course of 80 as much as it was when they came to power. I thank all citizens who participated in Serbia's release in World War II, only the arms tax did not introduce this government to that weapon, but to the DS government. I am sorry that Serbian liberators, then Yugoslavia introduced the tax, but there is one other thing, it is that the SNS has freed Serbia from tycoon and their authorities, from those tycoons who have become rich with the poor. It is likely that the applicants of these amendments would like to have these tycoons back in power and have these tycoons continue to lead Serbia again. In 2012, we freed Serbia from tycoon, from corrupt politicians, from corrupt police officers, from corrupt judges and prosecutors, and that is a form of liberation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44374	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44375	Thank you. Article 17 is added by Article 28a dealing with infringements, i.e. fines for infringements and by members of the basic text of the law. The second position of this new member 28a is – The fine of between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars will be fined for the offence and the responsible person in the legal person referred to in Article 1(1). Who's that? I ask that it be deleted because when you look at the members of 56 and 16, 20 and 26, who is responsible for the same punishment if under Article 1(1) of this same article it is said that the fine amounts to 100,000 to 500,000 dinars will be fined for violations of the legal person of the taxpayer who does not pay taxes within the prescribed period. And the responsible person in the legal face, who is it? So, what remains unclear and will apply to some people who will miss out on paying the tax liability who will be the responsible person? Will it do so as a guide to the Republic Administration, will you accept that it is deleted, it is up to you, I just don't want us all to have a problem together because someone when you want to punish someone who's a legal person in charge of paying taxes, and who doesn't, who finds that responsible person? If you are referring to a systematization, it is already discriminatory when an automatic report is made to a misdemeanor, therefore, or if I ask you to pay attention to the possible application of this attitude, whether it is clear to all who it refers to or to accept my amendment to delete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44376	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44377	So, first of all, I agree with your dilemma if there's a dilemma about when a legal person, so it broke the law, and since this is about registration, this isn't just about carrying guns, it's about registering motor vehicles, aircrafts and so on. Therefore, if someone is in violation, the firm, the legal person and the person responsible will be punished. It's the manager of the company if it's not an internal act that's different. So, if it's not specified that someone else is responsible for the vessels, some deputy director or something. Therefore, I think the laws on companies are regulated by who's responsible. I don't have a second solution, so I think the other laws define. If we were to get into who's responsible, that would be very complicated. So here's the idea of punishing both the company and the responsible person in the firm whose failure to report taxes are covered by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44378	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44379	One who writes a solution to the offense cannot ask, and who is your responsible face? That, I repeat, either solve with a manual or solve by modifying this member. If you want him to refer this to the company law, he can't do it either. It's not the legal person's director who's in charge, it's different structures, and the company, the stock companies, everything and just make it just one damaged person who's not responsible, so we'll have an unnecessary problem. I mean, that's why I suggested that the simplest solution be deleted because the punishment of responsible persons is written in other laws, but it says there and how the responsible person is punished. This is what you put on, an institution of offense that he writes a solution because he was delivered that the taxpayer did not pay the tax and then he makes a solution for both the debtor and the responsible person, and he doesn't know who he is. I mean, it's not even a replica, it's nothing, I think we understand that I want to remove the simple ambiguity in the application of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44380	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44381	Well, we can watch this this is just one of the fiscal laws, nothing more. You have other fiscal laws and other tax obligations, you have value added tax laws, and that's where the responsible person writes. In every law, and that practice you have introduced, the responsible person bears responsibility for something his company has not done. Now, the question is, who's the responsible person? Well, not only is it regulated by the Company Act, but you can check it on every APR site who's responsible. So you can go on the site, it's always the director. And, you can turn the rules as far as you want, the director is obliged to escort the legality of his company to which he manages in every part of his organization unit. Why are you asking stupid questions now? This is absolutely the meaning of all the laws. Fiscal and other laws are always the director's responsibility and it's a legal practice that you've established that you're now surprised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44382	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44383	Yes, thanks, a replica of the presentation of MP Veroljub Arsic. Whether I'm asking stupid questions or smart or whether I'm stupid or smart, you can ask me, so I'll tell you both in the office and in the session whether I belong to ugly and smart. When I ask a question, I ask a question because I think it's a common benefit for those who are going to apply the law and that it's a common way to send a message completely unequivocally and from here that taxes have to be paid. We believe that you increase them needlessly but that tax discipline is something that we share as value. The way we determine taxes, we disagree, but once established order, the rule of law has to be. If you have no other argument than to tell me I'm stupid, that tells me everything about the strength of the argument. About me for my luck, and unfortunately for you, nothing at all. What children are told otherwise, that there are no stupid questions, that's how children are taught to think. There are only people who don't know any answers to any questions. There are no stupid questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44384	No one can tell you you're stupid. Did someone say that? Don't talk like that, let's tell each other we're stupid, we're just doing business. No stupid questions, no stupid answers. Parliamentarians Natasa Vuckovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanovic, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44385	Thank you, Madam President. The reason for not accepting this amendment is that the tax on use, holding and carrying goods is harmonised in December with the consumer price index for the previous 12 months. Now I'm asking you - what do you do to the consumer price index? Say, are those salaries, pensions, etc? Because if that is the case, then the salaries and pensions should probably rise, because I don't know if you've noticed that consumer prices are also rising, and parallel to consumer prices for citizens of growth and taxes, rising taxes, electricity taxes, fuel taxes, all the other products you've imposed excise duties on. The only thing that's true is that prices and taxes are growing in the government of the Republic of Serbia, where you run finance, and I'm saying that again, because of the reduction in deficits that have become the highest in themselves. What we are proposing and why we are proposing to delete all these laws with which you have come today is because each of these laws introduces new burdens on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Each of these laws will cost them, and as you say, as taxes grow, so do prices. You can tell them that prices don't grow. Mr. Wolfie here says very often that everything is cheaper than it was. However, no one should trust either the Democratic Party, the Serbian Progressive Party, or the government of Aleksandr Vukic. Every time she goes to the store she knows that a year ago, a liter of oil cost 100 dinars and that today it costs 140 dinars, that a kilo of sugar cost 40 dinars and today it costs between 60 and 70 dinars. You can tell them by tomorrow how prices are going down. Prices are rising, and you're now increasing taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44386	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44387	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that prices are rising. Inflation is 1.5% and it is one of the lowest inflations in the last 20-30 years in Serbia. Thus, as inflation is growing and inflation is another good indicator that people are fighting stagflation because it is a much bigger economic problem. Small inflation, and this may even be too small, helps economic growth. It's something basic in some economic theory. In fact, here only concerns some harmonisation, the avoidance of some additional procedures that would cost more in fact than the consumer price index currently stands and the growth of the consumer price index. With such low inflation and such low consumer prices, compliance costs, let's say, next year, would probably be higher in the amount of this tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44388	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44389	This time I can agree with your wish. I also have a wish, and that's to get everything indexed. This formula, you've read well, indexed over the past 12 months, but it's done a month before the year is over, and that way everything, all the specific taxes are indexed. Those who are not, for example, for electricity, are not indexed because they are in percentages. So where it's at percentages, there's no indexation. The indexation is only where the amount is given, specific taxes, i.e. is given in absolute amounts in dinars. And you read it well. There's an indexation formula. There was an indexation formula in the Budget System Act, we had twice a year indexation, but we temporarily put that formula out of force and put a global formula. I hope that we will come very quickly to index wages and pensions again, which says they pay in the public sector, the collection of salaries must not exceed 7% of the social product, and the collection of pensions is 11% of the social product. The moment we make that happen, and we'll achieve a more successful economic growth, I'll be the first to come before you here and suggest that we coordinate wages and pensions, so that we're certainly not below that limit, just to achieve those results. It seemed to me, like a rather demanding thing at the beginning of the program. We are taking serious steps towards this and our goal is that by the end of this programme, exactly two years from now, all of 2016 and all of 2017, we are going down to that level by bringing down the social product and the private sector to increase, not by violently changing anything. At that moment, as soon as we meet these conditions, which are sound fiscal rules -- to descend below some level, not to be a burden on the economy or anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44390	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44391	Thank you. Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable ministers and respected guests, what is demanding, and now we have had the opportunity to hear and expose Mr. Vujovic and the debate he and Mrs. Jerkov led, so it is demanding, on the one hand, that 7% and 11%, as much as you said the maximum for salaries and pensions compared to the Budget System Act, to index with the increase in real prices. What is demanding, I fully agree with you, and I think you've seen well here that we have disproportionate price increases relative to wages and pensions. Now we have another big problem – if it remained on the same level, it would be unfair. But we have a situation where wages are reduced, in which pensions are reduced. Then we have a double problem and it's probably twice as demanding and probably twice as complicated. I know it's a budget burden. No one here is foolish enough to know how hard it is to distribute one country's finances for a year. But we have a real problem that we are constantly running away from, that is, you as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's a burden on the budget, imagine what a burden it is for the home budget or for someone who lives on that pension, or who just can't survive that salary? So now we've come to the point. That's why we suggested that the law be deleted, but we opened a topic that was very important. We can't index the inflation burdens and constantly coordinate them without doing the same thing with salaries and pensions. That's actually the point. Although that is a big problem, you must find a solution in some future period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44392	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44393	Mr. Minister, let me just tell you what it looked like earlier -- raise wages and pensions 5%, and then we have an inflation of 12%, which means that 7% are down. Citizens. You're the same ones they're talking about. And these employees in the public sector, and pensioners, and everyone else. The worst part is, that's how they destroyed the economy. Because every inflation that's above the target is destroying the company's capital. And so they destroyed the real sector. Along with the euro jump, it could be 25% on the annual level. Now that we look here, the consumer price index is 1.28%. So much inflation in Serbia. I know it's very difficult for you to accept that someone is better and more responsible than you are, but take it once. Say, inflation is so much. Why do you keep telling citizens they have much more inflation when there's no inflation? We'd even like it to be in that box 4.5% plus minus 2%. But it's not. It's not. It's not because there's been a decline in the price of oil on the world market. What do we do now? Don't make up any more stories. Here, I'm stupid, so I can't figure it out. I have a right to say that to myself. What do they have to do with indexing the cost of living, what are the benefits in the Republic of Serbia? I can't figure it out. So this tax when it was introduced was 2,000 dinars. During your government, he made 3,200 dinars. And now you're moaning for 40 dinars? I can't figure it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44394	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44395	The amendment to Article 19 is a consequent amendment, and the amendments that I have submitted where I request that either individual views or members be deleted, and then it is necessary that the amendment and addition of the Law on the Wearing and Keeping of Public Goods be deleted and a member relating to the termination of validity and publication in the "Official Messenger" of all previous versions of the law from 2001 to today. It's possible you don't understand why I'm looking for a delete. So, the intention is to keep all kinds of tax fees and tax determinations as it is now under the applicable law, and that's how some of what you think should be introduced to not be an amendment "expunged", but this is an imminent amendment. I also asked there to be a change in the arms and ammunition law here, but it's not, it's a matter of criminal law, so it has nothing to do with paying taxes. What I will make as a remark now, I will report on amendments to Article 20, my colleagues have proposed to delete this member, which is determined when the law enters into force in relation to this Article 19, where the laws that have already been published have been discussed. You can't know the date when the law will come into force. If the vote in this law is 26 and 29, the Assembly must vote on the law to come into force eight days ago. So, it's simply about how we've already voted, because I'm asking for the removal of a member who calls for laws that no longer apply now, once you vote, whenever you vote, you're going to have to vote under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44396	Thank you. On Article 19, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. Do you want a word? (No) Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Do you want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (No) Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Someone wants a word for him. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44397	I mentioned in an attempt to make an argument for the amendment to Article 19. Therefore, Article 20 reads – this law enters into force on 1 January 2016. The laws may enter into force either on the basis of the Constitution, which is the eighth day from the date of publication in the “Official Messenger” or shall enter into force by decision, by special decision of the National Assembly, on the entry into force before the deadline laid down in the Constitution. When you have such a member of the law in the bill then he may mean two things or it was a plan, which is legitimate, that he be searched, for example in November, whenever, so that everything that stands for a period of 2016, because the date of voting of this law is far enough from 2016, but that is not the case. So the vote on this session could be the end of a debate in particular, which, given the upcoming holidays and Christmas markings on the Gregorian calendar on Friday, or Saturday, could be Monday or Tuesday. It's going to be 28 or 29. If such a provision does not enter into force on 28 or 29 without a special decision from the National Assembly. It's all legitimate, it's done in so many cases, just at this moment and during the search, it's inevitable that someone would do something with that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44398	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the ZS – submitted together to the 20th amendment. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44399	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we have proposed that Article 20 be changed and that, in accordance with the Constitution and this law enter into force from the eighth day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. We are absolutely dissatisfied with the answer that we have received that the amendment is not accepted, he says, because it would lead to a double administration of the same tax form for the period from 1 January 2016 to the date of entry into force of this law, as well as a period from the entry into force of this law until 31 December, i.e. until the end of 2016. Why are we unhappy? You wrote in the law that we will adopt that it is the result of the adoption of the Firearms Act, which entered into force on 5 March 2015. I ask you, why didn't you deliver this law before? Why we had to come into a situation to discuss it on December 23rd and adopt it, so that it could not be announced within an eight-day constitutional deadline and then enter into force then and be applied from January 1st, it is not disputed. There are laws in which it is said – they take effect on the eighth day from the day of publication, and they are applied from a given date. I'm interested in responsibility, that word responsibility for the job that's not done. If the entire law has resulted in the adoption of the Firearms Act, which was adopted on March 5th, which took effect, what took the government, or your ministry nearly nine months to come with a proposal for this law. So it's absolutely unacceptable for us, and if double administration is needed, then it takes double to administer someone who hasn't managed to do this job for the time it was normal and realistic to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44400	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Moving to the next point. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted. Do you want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanovic, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44401	Thank you. The proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act is a law which I also consider better for the existing solutions and is one of the reasons why the amendments I propose are such that all the proposed members are deleted. In Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration, the termology is amended. Conditional of what is secret information in the tax procedure and what is considered and kept secret. And the words "office secrets" are replaced by the words "secret information" and in each of the attitudes that define what was the official secret, it is replaced by the words "secret information". It is said that, in an additional position, it is defined that, with regard to the protection of classified information in everything else not prescribed by this law, the tax administration is obliged to act in accordance with the law governing the confidentiality of data, or the law governing the protection of personal data. This tax administration is mandatory and obliged and we have a serious problem with the application of the Data Access Act, as well as the Law on the Protection and Data Protection of Persons, as we have criminal proceedings because people do not feel they are obliged to comply with this law. I understand in some ways that "the official secret" is replaced by "secret information", but I lack an explanation of why you believe that in each law it is especially necessary to stress that the data handler is required to act in accordance with the Law governing the confidentiality of data, or the law governing the protection of personal data. If that doesn't work, then he's in violation of that law or the criminal act. While it is time for the European Commission's report to say that horizontal legislation is starting to work, which is the most painful point of the lack of law, which is that one ministry knows what the other ministry is doing, that the ministries co-ordinate each other in the application of the law, so I think we need to be aware that the law on the protection of personal data is in force. To just erase that attitude, it was also a dilemma, since for other reasons you change words – official secret, when tax proceedings and administration are at stake, but I want to send a stronger message about the inadmissible inconsistencies and past the law handling personality data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44402	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44403	I can agree with the idea of clearing the laws from those parts that are pleonasm, etc. I totally agree, but I think in this case, since for the first time the terminology has changed, it's not worse to refer to two laws that define it, especially with us where the law is and only an act that protects personality data, that it's a newspaper with us in the law. It's not worse to mention it in this law. So, since we have both a new institution and a new law that clearly places that limit when personality data can be used and when not, or prohibits the explicit use of these data, it affects many laws, including this law. It even seems to me, to some laws where there is no such thing in other countries. We're going to have serious problems here, let's say, when we form complex financial instruments based on individual instruments, we're going to have a problem over how to overcome the issue of treatment of individual data. I could accept that, but I don't think this is harmful to this law, because it's said – in everything else that isn't prescribed by this law, so it's only referred to those two laws. I accept your suggestion that we should clear the law of excess detail, but in this case, since it's new things, this doesn't hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44404	Thank you. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, MP Balša Bozovic and together Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and together Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44405	In Article 3 of the amendment and the addition of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, Article 25 is amended to add the position and the position to that position as follows: ‘The obligation to submit tax returns referred to in point 2 of Article 1 of this Article shall also apply to the liquidating, i.e. the insolvency manager who is required to submit tax returns in the winding-up procedure or bankruptcy in accordance with the tax regulations, including the tax application for tax revenue for which the time limit for submitting the application is the date after the date of opening of the winding-up procedure, i.e. bankruptcy. I understand what you wanted with this, but it still takes an explanation that this provision of an additional position in Article 25 would be applicable. So this is where it was seen, I guess, from practice, that there are liquidating or bankruptcy managers who get, I don't get into it, legitimately, the license, etc., and he's in the winding-up process, or bankruptcy filing tax returns. What you can't see here, does he take it for himself, since previous attitudes refer to faces, or does it refer to persons with him in bankruptcy proceedings? It can be interpreted one way or another. In one reading, if it is required to comply with the tax rules, including the tax application for the tax period, for which the deadline for submitting applications is the date after the date on which the liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings are opened... This add attitude requires your clarification, if not a direct management manual.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44406	Thank you. The third amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Balša Bozovic and Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44407	Article 4 is also a member where, in the basic text of the law, Article 29, paragraph 8. For this previous case, a whole position was added which spoke of the obligation to submit tax returns to liquidators, i.e. bankruptcy managers and after the period for which the application is due after the opening of the winding-up procedure. It says here that "the body, organisation or other competent person for registration in the prescribed register of persons performing the activity may delete the taxpayer, entrepreneurs from the prescribed register, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 7 of this Article, and in the event that there is no evidence of termination of obligations on the basis of contributions to pension-inhabitation provided that those persons have acquired the right to pension, in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing pension and disability insurance". So this change is an exception. It's never right to introduce exceptions in the Tax Procedure and Administration Act in this way. It is said that there is someone in charge of enrolling in the prescribed registry of persons performing certain activities. Whoever's in charge of enrolling, he's in charge and he's in charge of writing. You're making an exception here that if someone retired, and there's no evidence of whether or not these evidence applies to other persons. I understand the intention, but it's written vaguely. As soon as you write something vague, you will find it in the tax administration, in the relevant authorities of Marija Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milan Jovanovic, who will completely misapply the provision. I don't expect you to accept my suggestions, then I ask you by clear instructions or by sublegal law on the register of cases when it's done by an organization, which normally enrolls in the prescribed registers, to have someone come to you and tell you – I'm going to retire, I have the right to retire, but I have no proof of paid pension-inhabitment insurance for myself or for other persons, so there's no confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44408	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44409	A comment on both the previous and this article. So this supplement refers to point 2 point 1 point 2. These are tax returns to the tax administration on the prescribed form within the time limit and in a manner regulated by tax regulations. That's the only thing that applies to this supplement. In other words, the bankruptcy or winding-up management must file a tax application, although bankruptcy occurred prior to the date for submission of the application. So, he's taking on that obligation, and that's all we wanted to point out, is that there's no situation where the bankruptcy becomes chaos, the company, the organs don't function, they don't file tax returns and everything else. Another member, Article 29, where the possibility of erasing is defined, we do not change jurisdiction, says – organ, organisation or other person responsible for enrolment in the prescribed... What you said will stay. So whoever's in charge of enrollment will also be in charge of erasing, but it's only allowed to be consistent with those things that happen in the bankruptcy or liquidation process. We don't change jurisdiction or the post office. We can't do that, but we're only allowing that possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44410	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44411	Ladies and gentlemen, under this Article 4, I think this solution is very good, when it comes to entrepreneurs, when it comes to entrepreneurs who have acquired the right to retire. They are not allowed not to pay those obligations for which they are obliged to close the store, when they are deleted from the register, except when they retire, on contributions for social and pension insurance, because for those same contributions for social and pension insurance there is a legal possibility to deduct them from their future pension, so there is no need for us to harass people, if they don't already have enough money, to pay them now, and then to withdraw that amount from their pension. It's much simpler, much simpler, clear solution. Nothing in this country loses, but it just speeds up the tax process and makes life easier for people who have gained the right to retire. I think it's a very good solution, a very life-form, and how applicable it will be to the satisfaction of those who leave and who have gained the conditions to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44412	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44413	Here it is quite clear, counterpart Antic has even made certain assumptions that are completely correct. So here he can break the company's activity to be, that is, an entrepreneur and be removed from the register if he gets a pension right, and there's no evidence of executive pension and disability insurance. Now there's one question to ask, and then why do you care? So if you don't have proof and he didn't pay those tax obligations, he can't even exercise his right to retire. It's in his interest to do so or he'll have to wait for another condition. That waiting will cost him a lot more than self-payment of pension and disability insurance. And in the end, he will be reduced to the tax base, or pension for the period where he has not paid his contributions. I don't see why there's so much concern here. It is only possible for entrepreneurs who have problems with their liquidity not to make an even bigger cost, but to close their enterprise shop, and to exercise the right to retire in the subsequent procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44414	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was filed by the Parliament of the People of Alexander Jerkov? You want a word? (No) The National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 5th amendment, together with Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorić and Jovan Markovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44415	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, the honored guests, so it's quite clear that we didn't have time here to talk in principle and to impose the subject essentially, which makes the system a much better and more efficient charge. And we have various complications just having a bad charge for many years, and it's not just about this government, but also about other governments, and it needs to be completely real and honest. But what is very important to us is that we do not want this law, and with some good members, to be adopted completely for the simple reason that there is a series of shortcomings. In this particular situation, we have a situation where some of the things that existed before 2012, i.e. before 2013 and which are, let's say. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic has established and is now returning them back to the past, and what Mr Krstic is as a great wonder of the world that came to Serbia to save Serbian citizens, it is now moving aside and now for the government of the Republic of Serbia is no longer a good thing. Now we're not clear exactly when and during what period the system worked well. Whether during the Baptist or before, but it doesn't matter to us again. It is important because of citizens who not only participate daily in this sharada, but simply cannot be sure whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether the Ministry in this case is actually taking care of how and how their money will reach the budget of the Republic of Serbia and how and how it will be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44416	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44417	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an unacceptable amendment to Article 5 "is deleted", not an acceptable absolute explanation of the amendments. So, he says -- the proposed erasure removes the harmful consequences for Serbian citizens. I don't know what kind of harmful things, and I don't know if the previous speaker, the amendment promoter and I, are living in the same country or living at the same time? I don't know what adverse consequences he's thinking about. Perhaps the adverse consequences of your system, or your years of government, when your tycoons could not pay taxes and be punished for it and be rich at the expense of the citizens? Now that's not the case. Now there is absolutely no such thing as a selective tax charge, not to mention that the rate of tax collection is also incomparably higher than the time when the party of the previous speaker exercised power. Tax collection is beyond plan. So that's what the record says, that I'm not just reading that a total of 19.4 billion taxes were charged in August alone, unlike the previous times. This is evidenced by the fact that the first seven months of this year, tax collection was 101.4% compared to the plan, and 101.3% compared to the previous year's comparative checkup when the charge was again higher than the previous periods. So, I don't know, so that's what the data is about. Very relevant data. So, I don't know what the adverse consequences are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44418	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was filed by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov? You want a word? (No) The National MP Balša Bozovic, together with Natasa Vučković and Gordana Komić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Marković, and together Marko Đurišić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic, submitted the 6th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44419	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a little bit about this member, that is, this change that the Proposer is proposing, and in the principle debate, but somehow that's when we ran out of TV, so the citizens couldn't hear, because in the delay there after midnight, a little who could hear my presentation, but also the minister's answer. In this regard, Article 6 extends the deadlines for mandatory electronic tax returns. For a year, the corporate income tax is postponed by three months, for excise duties by one year, tax on the income of independent business for entrepreneurs by one year, tax on premiums for three months, etc. What the minister said was that he wished it was a respected deadline that he otherwise proposed, and this assembly adopted in October of the month, or September 2014. With the deadline of the Prime Minister's predecessor, a genius as they called it, came here in June with a proposal to make an electronic application mandatory since October, when the minister realized he couldn't do it so briefly, he said - let's go for a year and two three months. Now that year and two, three months have passed, now a new year or three months are being sought in some cases. I wonder who's responsible again. That's a matter of responsibility I can't get. Who is responsible for the work that has not been carried out by this Assembly, the minister has proposed a deadline, you have adopted a deadline, now that deadline has not been respected, an extension is sought, and no one is responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44420	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44421	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. To refer to Mr Djurisic, it is the ethics of responsibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not heard or is not applying. So when you promise the citizens, when you promise what you're ruling on their behalf, you have to take responsibility for the things you promised, and you haven't realized them or done them for a certain period. It's the only way you can contribute to the democratisation of society. Only by doing so can you stand before the citizens at what pace, during which time the government worked well, which the ministers failed, who could do better their job, etc. For what? Because it is assumed that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia live on salaries and receipts that are also part of the budget, which is thus being filled, so you as well as the MPs of the citizens are paying. You don't pay and you don't fund yourself. So when you promise to apply an electronic tax application and then move it in a year, someone has to go out and say, at the very least I apologize to the citizens for not doing my job effectively. When it comes to this law and tax collection, you must be aware that it is the sole responsibility of those who are currently serving as ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about tax collection, you have a completely public record, VAT collection is getting worse and worse from year to year and many other taxes. What's very important is that you represent a picture much more beautiful than it actually is and that's the essence of this government, Potenkin's villages, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44422	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44423	I said in the opening statement that I accept the remarks and that we are all responsible, the tax administration and the minister under which the tax administration is located. So I accept full responsibility for that. If you think that's the right thing to do, get into the details of who's responsible for the real reason, we can do it. I'm absolutely not running away from responsibility. The issue here is a little more complex, since the transition to an electronic tax application system depends not only on the work and goodwill of individuals, but depends on the ability of the system, the existing system to provide all citizens with the so-called. High burdens when all tax returns are given to serve all taxpayers. Therefore, I proposed innovative deadlines in September of last year, because our deadlines were set, we had to change them within a short period of time. Now we propose after a year and more, we propose deadlines that I think are more realistic and that we will be able to find all the software and hardware solutions that are necessary in Serbia's territory 182 tax administration offices, which are going through the transformation and transition to a more modern system of cuts and tax charges. I hope these deadlines, if you think we should get into the details of those deadlines, we can. It's in the first part. So I couldn't agree more. In the second part, I can tell you that regardless of how late this electronic application is and that we have already received recognition from people who assess the conditions for managing business in Serbia and have risen on this basis for many places. All together for 20 and something compared to 91 places, or nine places in relation to the revised place, but I have to say it's not exactly a finding that taxes are falling. Taxes are growing. The net VAT reduction is reduced by increasing the amount to be paid back by VAT which is very consistent with the increased investment activity that has been released from VAT and the increased amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44424	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Something won't react. Remove the card and insert again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44425	I'll use the time of my parliamentary group. I support this amendment and Mr. Minister has accepted this kind of responsibility and this is not the first time that he is late in the realization of something that has been taken over. I will remind you, Mr. Minister, you were probably not even in the country at the time that the first electronic tax application was filed on February 6, 2009, since then in Serbia we have a complete infrastructure that can support this way of reporting and it has been more than six years that there has been no application of all those tools that allow it, from electronic signatures through certificates and all other electronic capabilities. That's what I know, and I was directly involved in it. In the light of this law, and especially this member, it is that there are insufficient capacities or software, probably neither hardware, but also opportunities and knowledge in the tax administration itself, and I think the key question really is to say why these six years have not been used to improve the entire system and therefore not to say who is the key responsibility. By 2012, she was carrying, so you kept saying, the previous government. In those three years, a lot has been done in moving and efficient management of this system and introducing an electronic tax collection, but on the other hand since 2012, nearly three and a half years ago, almost nothing has been done because by delaying the application of this law and this member we accept such a model of conduct and I think it is important to cut off at some point, especially when you implement new software solutions it is very important to give firm deadlines for these deadlines to be respected. And next time you'll come here to the Assembly and suggest a new delay, I hope it won't be so, but I think it's habits that are inherited in this way with tolerance and no clear answer to who's responsible for the fact that in the past three and a half years this job hasn't been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44426	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The word has been made by MP Zoran Antic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44427	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's easy to talk about responsibility. Certainly, no one is happy about the extension of these deadlines, and I would remind my respected colleagues that when we introduced electronic ID cards and electronic passports, we had at least one, six times extended those deadlines in this assembly and that they were not talking about the responsibility of those who were possibly guilty of it, which is in any case members of their political party. So it's not easy to introduce a new system. We're quite a poor society. The capacity of our institutions is often problematic. There's a problem. Besides, this deadline only extends for another three months. It's not some drastic change compared to what we're proposing. So let's be a little bit and self-critical and see more realistically the possibilities of our administration and our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44428	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44429	Thank you, Chairman. We have proposed in this amendment some language corrections that the promoter did not accept. What is more important is the essence of the proposal to amend the law as proposed by the Proposer. Namely, the promoter suggested that the order of payment should be carried out in accordance with the following order – first the amount of the main tax liability, then the interest, and then the cost of payment, and earlier the cost of payment, interest, the amount of the main tax liability. This solution, which was now proposed, existed in the previous law, and when the minister, not this finance minister but the minister before him, the genius, came, he said – we must turn the order as this assembly majority adopted because, after the Constitutional Court's decision, no longer applies the comfortable method of calculating interest and that this is a requirement under the Constitutional Court's decision. Now I'm confused by going back to the way things were. First, there's more in this law of returning to the old, to what was wrong, the worst in the world and everything that was. We'll talk about it, but in this case, I'm confused now whether this comfortable method of calculating interest will be applied again, that is, as the people say, interest on interest because if this order reduces debt, it will always remain at the end of the interest and the cost of payment, and then, on the basis of that, will it actually be my question, counting interest so that we don't get into a situation where the Constitutional Court reacts because it's explained to us? When this was changed, it was explained that it was because of the Constitutional Court's decision. So Minister Krstic said, spoke, suggested this Assembly adopted and now returns to what was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44430	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44431	This time unlike other situations when I often had reservations I totally agree with you. I can deepen that analysis that this solution will be bad again. The Constitutional Court has imposed on us an economically unsustainable concept that there is no interest on interest, and we propose this solution to get out of that trap of the previous one and therefore ask for order to be charged... So when you have a total debt with expenses, interest, etc., the first payment that comes will come off the main. Therefore, if you were in debt of 1,000, the interest was 500 and the cost of 100, you were first stripped of that 1,000, and then 500 interest, and you end up paying the costs. What's the problem with this solution? So, he respects the Constitutional Court's decision not to allow interest on interest, but predicts here the possibility that the debtor will pay those first 1,000 and that interest will never be paid, because interest on interest does not go. So we're sending this de facto signal to interest and you don't have to pay. It's very bad, but it's a solution we've been forced to. It would be better to pay proportionally both the principal and the interest, if we can't apply what the whole world is applying. The question of interest rate height is the second question, but the question that interest is income, so interest on interest and the principal has to go, is a question without which economic theory and practice would collapse everywhere in the world. So until we correct that injustice with the Constitutional Court's decision, this is the solution we're proposing. I have a serious professional restriction, but as a minister who supports the proposals that we have received, this is the way out of the existing situation and this is the possibility that bonds will pay the principal first, and I hope they will pay the total debt, after that interest and at the end of the cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44432	Thank you. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 10th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you, Mrs. Jerkov. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44433	We have foreseen our amendment to further enhance transparency in public competition when advertising sells mobile stuff in public competition in front of the Tax Administration. However, the point is that these were minor language changes, but the bottom line is that again with this law, this proposed change now proposed by the minister, is returning to the decision that existed in the 2010 law, which Minister Krstic in his inspired, and fortunately Serbia wanted to change the ministry. Since time has shown that this, as well as many other things he has done, has not been in favour of Serbia's citizens, we are going back to that solution from that previous time. I am pleased that the Ministry has seen that some of the things that were done during that period have not proved to be good and that it is returning to the solutions from that previous bad, worst, scariest period, as we hear here in the debates on many laws. So, we welcome that this solution is introduced this way and we think that as it is now introduced, it provides greater transparency in the process of selling moving things, in the process of forced payment, which was reduced essentially by the changes that Minister Krstic has proposed, and this congregation majority, of course, adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44434	Thank you. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44435	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers and respected guests, we have proposed that we delete these members for a simple reason that we do not consider the whole law in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although, as I will repeat, we have not had the opportunity to discuss it in principle, because it is also mentioned by the minister who came to explain in about 45 minutes to an hour a tenth of the law concerning some life in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Especially here in the members that Mr Marko Djurisic explained earlier, and now it is my concern that we have a conflict between the two policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia. One that seemed, I think, devastating, which is that Mr Krstic, who was minister in a short period, changed many things to the damage of the system itself, as we had the opportunity to hear. Minister Vujovic also said the system is guilty, not individuals. So, at the expense of the system, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made certain changes possible, and these changes have not led to improvement and we are now back to the past. We are now going back to that tax policy led by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, which was declared unprofessional, criminal, thieving, etc. It is simply no longer clear to anyone when the government of the Republic of Serbia was actually working for the benefit of citizens, during which period, since we are in the fourth year of power that slowly stands out and better lives than reform laws and when it comes to Serbian citizens, they do not see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44436	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44437	First of all, I have to protest the reasons for not accepting our amendment, because we have asked for one language change, so that the word “O old age” is replaced by the words, “which regulates obsolescence.” It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of not accepting the amendments of other fellow Members, and they have requested the removal of the whole member. I don't think that's correct, because we think that this change is the good that the government has proposed, except for this language piece. Why do we think she's good? Because this is another change introduced by Minister Krstic and changed in 2013, with these changes returning to the past. So, these changes come back to regulations, i.e. The law should now state that the provisions of this Law on Obsolescence of the right to determine payment and return do not apply to contributions to compulsory social security, which existed in the law until Minister Krstic arrived, and then the majority of these were all nominated. Now came the second minister, thank God, he saw that something was wrong, back to what was old, and I hope that most of it would accept it. But again, without any responsibility. What about these last year? What about those people who were damaged by the law as suggested by Minister Krstic here, and the same majority here, the same people nominated? We think it's irresponsible. On the other hand, I don't think it's right for our amendment to be rejected by automation without reading what we've suggested, we've suggested a language change, and you can agree with it or not. Basically, we support this change that the government has proposed because it is good, better than those solutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44438	Mr. Djurishic, if I could just say one word, I was wrong not to give the word to the minister first, and he said he wanted to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44439	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44440	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44441	Thank you very much. I suggest that this amendment be accepted and that there be no dilemma I would like to read what is after that. So, the provisions of this law, which are inserted into words – which regulate obsolescence, continue to be subject to the text of the right to determine fees and vomit, do not apply to contributions to compulsory social security. Such an amendment shall be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44442	I thank Mr. Minister and I find that the Government's representative has accepted the amendment. On the 14th amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and national MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 16th amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and national MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the People’s MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word has Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44443	In this amendment in paragraph 3 concerning the field control minutes, we ask that the submission of an objection be made within two days, which is currently proposed to increase to five working days. However, we believe that the two-day deadline is too short because essentially everything that is contained in that field control report will later be subject to sanctioning or not sanctioning, so we believe that persons who are not so learned about this record should be increased to a five-day period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44444	On the 18th amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and national MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 19th amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and national MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 21st amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 23rd amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and national MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the People’s MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 24th amendment. The word is Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44445	This part of the bill speaks of penalties and now an explanation of why our amendment is not accepted, that is because we asked to remain the prescribed penalty of 150,000 dinars for cases where the taxpayer legal entity does not file a tax return in time and does not pay the tax. I agree that this is a compliance with the Law of Infractions, but now in law we have one illogicality. So it'll be the same punishment for two different violations. So far, there has been a greater penalty in case you do not report the tax in a timely manner and do not pay it, and the smaller penalty was that if you do not report it in a timely manner and pay it. So it's kind of pointless that there's the same punishment for still two different cases. I think that if it was already going to go down to this reduction because of the alignment with the Law of Infractions to cut down on these cases where there was no timely application of the tax, and he was paid. I think that, in this way, we have the two positions of a member who could only exist in one member, that only the one who has not applied with 100,000 in a timely manner, whether or not he has paid the tax, that part does not fully affect the level of the fine, and in that sense we think that a bad solution like this is going to remain in the law. It was ours that there was, to keep that difference, and if it wasn't already possible because of the Law of Infractions, I think there could have been another solution and that these two attitudes would have been joined into one and the penalty would have been prescribed for non-relent tax returns whether you later paid it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44446	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. On Article 25 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and national MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27, the People’s MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 28th amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and national MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44447	Thank you. As with other members of this law, we have proposed to delete it because we believe that the existing solutions in the law that are in force are also relevant here in Article 28. It is said that the change refers to a 2g point where, in addition to the persons referred to in Article 29.8 of this Act, the amendments apply to a point of 2g where, except for persons covered by Article 29.8 of this Act, they add to the wording and – for pension and disability insurance obligations, if they have obtained the right to pension under the provision of the law governing pension and disability insurance. When a provision like this is introduced which is essentially to make an exception again then it remains to be interpreted, I suppose, that the provisions of the law governing pension and disability insurance are those currently in place. The exemption shall mean that the member who defines all of the persons referred to in Article 29 is such that those obligations are, or are not, the amount to be calculated or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44448	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44449	Ladies and gentlemen, this member actually refers to Article 4 which we have already discussed, that entrepreneurs who have acquired the right to retire may contribute to pension and disability insurance to pay off their pensions, so, given that the government has proposed this institute, it is perfectly normal that this member came in line and, as I said earlier, I think it is acceptable and this amendment should be rejected, because it would be a denial of Article 4. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44450	The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 28th Amendment. Thank you. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44451	Excuse me, is this an amendment to Article 29? Yes, thank you. Therefore, Article 29 refers to Article 118b. where a new stance is added: "A fine of 100,000 to 2 million dinars will be fined for the violation of the State lottery of Serbia, or a legal person if the tax administration does not deliver daily, monthly and annual traffic reports, in writing or electronic form," with other members changing places. My question is whether the obligations of the State Lottery and the offences it commits have been mentioned in any other member, or whether this is only for an additional breaking amount, introducing obligations to the State lottery in the event of the absence of daily, monthly and annual traffic reports? Why is this a question? Is it because they have been placed for violations daily, monthly and annually, or is it a provision that is added as a new attitude, because it has been seen from practice that monthly, daily or annual reports are missing? It's just a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44452	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44453	Your feeling here is correct. We wanted this supplement, which is not essentially related to the other supplements, to just supplement the law, to be clearly and unequivocally said that it was necessary to deliver daily, monthly and annual reports, in order for the tax administration to have indications of what was going on, not to get into a situation where the problems had already occurred. So this is just a supplement to have timely information and full information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44454	Thank you. On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44455	Article 30 deals with technical conditions, i.e. the submission of tax returns, and it states in two terms: ‘The taxpayer providing technical conditions may, in the period from 1 January 2016 to 29 February 2016, simultaneously with the submission of the tax returns referred to in Articles 6 and 2 and 5 and Article 6 of Sub-paragraph 1) and 2) of this Act, in writing form directly or through mail that those tax applications are submitted in electronic form in a prescribed manner. “ The second point: “On the basis of the tax returns made under Article 1 of this Article in electronic form, tax duties on taxpayers’ accounts will not be recorded. ” Does this mean that if it's written, it'll be recorded? That's the point. I am very attached to e-Government, e-Government and everything that carries the prefix "e" and I know how hard this is going. For seven years, the struggle lasted that there were no stamps and there were no questions where the seal was, and five years were the struggle for "single pal" without amending the Foreign Exchange Act. I don't know why, probably out of innate optimism, but if anyone I hope will be stubborn in e-government, then it's the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Revenue, because it makes it easier for everyone to do the job that needs to be done. Now, here we have the law that they, all of us citizens, have a choice and I understand why you have a choice, but I'm afraid that such a defined member will just continue the long-term delay and stamping. I hope not. I would also like to use this amendment to forget the comical history of the electronic statement of money giving, to bring the seal and bring the photocopier with the chip ID. It happens, it just happens, and we all don't like it to happen, but it has nothing to do with power or opposition, but it has to do with something that's supposed to be everyday in our system. So I am committed and supporting the efforts of the Ministry of Finance and the Administration of Revenue, which will completely transfer all kinds of communications on tax returns, reports, to e-business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44456	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44457	Just a moment to confirm your intuition. In the transitional period before 1 March, when a mandatory electronic notification takes effect, the obligor will be able to report in writing, directly or through mail, electronic applications, but it will not be electronically binding. So that's why there's this second attitude that just says that and it's just for consistency, not to say something, because until there's no obligation, there can't be a commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44458	On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vukovic, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44459	The amendment to Article 31 is an imminent consequent amendment, since my intention was to keep the existing solution in the most part, and I would like to have the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration so that we really have a debate on one position or two positions in three members that would improve the law. This, unfortunately, is not the case, so it is inevitable that this member who obliges the published laws that are in force cease to be in force, i.e. that the schedule of the amounts paid on the basis of the tax due and the parallel tax charges are finalised on 31 December 2015, be implemented by the application of the provision of Article 70(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Tax Procedure Act and the Administration, which are published in "The Official Messenger". Everything else won't work. It's important that those who have to act know this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44460	Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 31st Amendment. Thank you. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44461	Article 32 speaks of the entry into force of the law. A mandatory member in all draft laws discussed by the Assembly and by constitutional solutions shall enter into force on the eighth day since the publication of the "Official Messenger". Exceptionally, the Assembly may decide on special grounds for the law to enter into force within a short period of time than the Constitution prescribed. This Article has a date, as well as a proposal for a law whose debate has been concluded in particular and says that this law enters into force on 1 January 2016. I understand in a few such members, although I do not think it is good to place date members, except exclusively or when the laws are being amended and amended by delaying the deadline, such as that of the saboteurs or with the IDs, or by already, when we do not calculate well any time the law must enter into force, and then we are doing a delay, because the assumption that the laws have arrived in the Assembly procedure far enough since 1 January 2016, so such a member is meant to take effect and enter into force in the Constitution prescribed eight days from the date of publication, because the law of November, April, is already one of when, for more than 15 days in the Assembly. But now we will all have the obligation together to or in particular the Committee to make a decision on when the law enters into force or to have an illegal entry into force, because in order to enter into force on 1 January 2016, the lawyers will correct me, then the vote would have to be held today or tomorrow. I don't know, I'll never learn how to count eight days to get into effect, and that's why I think this member should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44462	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle in particular and in general. We move to the 56th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the law on the market of capital. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Consensus, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Parliamentarians Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Parliamentarians Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Parliamentarians Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal and system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. I read this more and more, Mr. Pavicevic. Here, you have the word, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44463	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečić, the Honored Minister Vujovic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, Amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act is one of the 100 amendments that we have tabled on 18 draft laws that we have placed on this agenda item. I ask you, Mr Becic, that the mathematical device for mathematical operations numbers and my five amendments minutes, to inform so precisely all the MPs and our guests and guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the current state of debate on these legislative projects that the Government has sent to the National Assembly. So, dear gentlemen, this is an accepted amendment of the 100 amendments we have submitted. Minister Vujovicu, I know that you are following our legislative activities here, occasionally accept some amendment that we have submitted, but you certainly did not know the results of the latest assembly survey on our discussions, and this latest survey by Mr Vujovicu, says the following – that we, the People's MPs of the New Party, respected gentlemen, have submitted 1,884 amendments for these years and eight months. In these 1,884 amendments we also counted these 100 amendments, one of which is on this article, Mr. Atlagic I see he listens carefully, accepted gentlemen of respect. Out of the 1,884 submitted for this year and eight months, gentlemen of the 162 amendments were accepted. When we transfer it to percentages, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests and guests from the Government, it is 8.6%. Of course, gentlemen, a reasonable man always has associations, makes various analogies, and by certain analogies that I make, that means that the year and eight months were enough for us the MPs of the New Party to provide support in the electoral body at this point. If extraordinary parliamentary elections were organised at 8.6 per cent. I think it is my turn, gentlemen, that this is being decided here at the National Assembly session, to inform both citizens and citizens of what is the state and to be given support and applause, gentlemen, for what? For one dedicated act of the MPs of the opposition in the home of the National Assembly. (Zoran Babiæ: How about the amendment a little bit? ) We have submitted an amendment concerning Article 1(3)'s position since I see that Mr Babic is particularly interested in hearing once again what the New Party amendment has been accepted here and here, I will now precisely inform Mr Babic that we have proposed, honored gentlemen, here Mr Babić, most precisely to be heard and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44464	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, don't speak to Mr. Babic. I want to hear what you have to say. I wish for those years and eight months and 1800 if 180 amendments had been accepted, but that would come sometime. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44465	It will be, it will be. The percentages will rise, of course. Here to hear then, Mr Babic, since no direct address is allowed, that we have suggested that in the appropriate place, honored gentlemen, in the position of Article 1 of this proposal of the law, an unjustly left out, gentlemen, so to speak. Thank you, gentlemen, and we have very precisely explained that this change was necessary because of respect for the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. We have written in reason, gentlemen, that it is our duty when we participate in legislative work, to respect the spelling and grammar of Serbian language, which respects one of the greatest principles on which the Constitution of our Republic rests, and that is the principle defined by Article 3 and that is the principle of rule of law. Not only that, but we managed to ensure, during this debate at this session, that, with the adoption of this amendment, we finally legally verify the principle of academic honesty, gentlemen, because in one of these proposed laws, Mr. Becic, and it is about this amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44466	What does that have to do with this amendment, Mr. Pavicevic, what you're saying?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44467	What do you mean, it's gone? Respect for spelling, Serbian grammar, the principle of academic honesty in higher education, how is it not one with another in a relationship, dear Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44468	Dear Professor, you know very well that it isn't. I'm asking you to talk about it when you come to that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44469	I'm going to talk about this in particular, because it's a huge pleasure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44470	We will look forward to your address under that amendment, and now return to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44471	There is no dilemma, I must say here that the reason for the enormous satisfaction of a national MP is when after 15 months of persistent struggle, one great principle legally verified, respected gentlemen. When we say that an unwarranted comma is added here, then we shall declare what the rules, grammar and spelling of the Serbian language are, and of course it is necessary to continue, to respect the academic integrity of the academic community and here in the National Assembly which is our political institution, and how will we do it most consistently, Mr. Becic? So it was important for me to link these two things, because of the principles of consistency, the principles of consistency, to show that, with respect for Serbian language, the great principle of rule of law necessarily goes and respects the great principle of academic integrity, which we are finally verifying today. I think this was a real opportunity, the best possible reason to inform the MPs of both our guests and our guests and Minister Vujovic, that we finally managed to ensure the good consequences and one, it seemed, of Sisifovsky's work. Sisif's work, dear gentlemen, is worth it. Perseverance is worth it, results come, ethics of responsibility at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44472	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I am absolutely sure that after a year and eight months, after 1800 amendments, you will reach the 180th Amendment accepted. Thank you. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted the 5th amendment together. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 57th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Legal Persons – you have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out the search principle, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Thank you. The People's MP Adrian Anastasov submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted the 5th amendment together. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 6th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 7th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 8th amendment. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed that paragraph 4 be deleted, and Article 4 states - exclusively from the Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, on the burden of expenditure of the bank, a write-off of the value of individual claims on the basis of credit granted to an unrelated person within the meaning of this law, provided that, from the moment of maturity of the claim, it has been at least two years with the provision of documentation which constitutes the basis for proving the incompetence of the debtors to carry out their monetary obligation. The exception prescribed by Article 8(4) is considered to be the exception. The bill, which intervenes with Article 16 of the applicable law, can form the basis for different types of malfeasance and abuse of rights. The introduction of the exceptions, which makes the draft law, recognises on the burden of bank expenditure the value of individual claims on the basis of a loan granted to an unrelated person within the meaning of this law, provided that from the moment of maturity of the claim, it has been at least two years with the provision of documentation which constitutes the basis for proving the debtor's inability to fulfil its monetary obligations. For example, documentation from the debtor's credit file on the settlement of the debtor's liabilities to the bank over the last 12 months, correspondence and other documentation in the bank's contacts and debtors regarding the payment of claims and the measures the bank has taken to collect. We think it opens up the possibility of different abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44474	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 10th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Thank you. The 11th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Adrian Anastasov. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 12th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 13th amendment. Thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Thank you. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 16th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 17th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44475	In Article 17 concerning the submission of tax returns, tax balances, the deadline of 60 days has been reduced to 10 days. We think it's too short a deadline. We assume that 30 days would be a more appropriate time limit for putting up with it. I think bankruptcy managers can make it within that time limit and just to remind you that in the bankruptcy law, the deadline is the same and it is 30 days. I hope you think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44476	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 18th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 18th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted the amendment together. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 20th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 21st amendment. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 22nd amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44477	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the next point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax on Civilian Income. You have received amendments to the MPs, you have received amendments to the Committee on Finance of the Republic budget and to control the spending of public funds and reports of the committees responsible, the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44478	I thank you, Article 1 of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Income Tax is interesting for two reasons. The first is the introduction of the law, i.e. the numbers of the "Official Messenger" on the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens from 2001 to today, and the number of these changes. For a researcher one day, I hope that our structural reforms and fiscal reforms, or at least attempts at real fiscal reforms, these numerous figures will be excellent, because from the context of each change, you can imagine what it is you wanted, or by determining what it is from the citizens' income that is supposed to be taxed, how taxed, how much of these citizens whose laws are bound by law and what it all seemed to be on the income side of the budget. Since budget management is, in fact, the management of the state as often as we are not inclined to talk about it, and more often tends to mythically talk, rather than politically, I regrettably had to put on this article an amendment to delete, and I would be happy to discuss why and how I changed the income tax. However, what is a novelty, i.e. a change in Article 3 of Law No 1 is to define what it is that citizens' income is subject to tax, these are under points 1 to 7 of earnings, income from self-employedness, income from copyright, copyright rights related to copyright and industrial property rights, income from capital, income from immovable property, capital gains and other income. The interesting thing is always the structure of this -- the other incomes, but that's the point that's drawn from the law into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44479	Thank you. MP Balša Bozovic, do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 1st Amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44480	Thank you. Article 2, which is proposed by amendments and additions to the adoption of the National Assembly in one used change is a language change, changing words from plural to unity, such as in item 22, which regulates the military, or changing the capital of Autonomous into a little autonomous. But what is interesting about this article is that words are added – and other types of compensation, are related to unemployment and words are added – and other types of benefits which, within the framework of the programme and the active employment policy measure, the NZS pays in accordance with the law governing employment and unemployment insurance. Point 16 is amended as follows: the payment of the compulsory social security benefits which the company is obliged to pay for the founder, i.e. its member in accordance with the law, which regulates contributions to compulsory social security and severance until a certain amount. Also in point 20, the severance provision is amended and it is said - severance payments paid by a person who ceases working in the process of resolving extra employees in the privatisation process in accordance with the government act, which sets out a programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the privatisation process to the amount established by the programme. It's a little awkward because there's a program waiting, if it's not there, like the accident and measures of active employment policy so that it can be applied to article 2 as a newspaper in the income tax of citizens. We think it should be better formulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44481	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s Parliament of Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Aleksandra Jerkov, together with Natasa Vućković, Gordana Comić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović, submitted the amendments to the same text. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44482	Consequential amendment. There's more. When you propose and sign an amendment to delete a member, it is inevitable that a member who is editing what you want to delete or change the number of attitudes or is added or changed is also proposed to delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44483	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, Natasa Vućković, Gordana Čomić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted their MPs together. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44484	Article 4 of amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax is amended by Article 14 which now defines, in several respects, essentially what profits are. So he says – the profit in terms of this law is also considered as receiving in the form of bons, securities of value, other than shares acquired in the property transfer process, money certificates, goods, as well as receipts obtained by making or providing benefits, forgiving debt, as well as covering the taxpayer's expenditure with cash or direct payment. It is clear to me what was wanted by this member, this first position defines what the paper of value the employee receives from the employer, or from the employer of the connected person, is considered to be a profit at the time of obtaining the right to have over these securities of value. It was a provision that existed in both Hungarian and Croatian legislation for a time, so it gave up on it. So, what are you doing with your face, because you're saying that the profit of the paper is of value at the moment of obtaining the right to make these papers available, if it's unreasonablely short notice. These charters have no value left. That was the case in the surrounding states. I'm saying, I understand why this was put on, but I think it's a solution that you're going to give up without adopting my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44485	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s Parliament of Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, the Members of Aleksandra Jerkov and together Natasa Vućković, Gordana Čomić, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović and together Marko Đurišić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić submitted their letters. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44486	Article 5 amends Article 15 of the Law on Income Tax. And that's what's changing words - the paid cash amount for the executive work. Which should be clear. You've done your job and you've been paid the sum of the profits. Now these words are changed in words – the amount of earnings that would be achieved in the republic in the same or similar jobs in accordance with the law, the general act and the labour contract. How else is it to be paid than in accordance with the law and the general act? Since it is about earnings that have not been made in the Republic, I think that this change, as much as I understand the intention, will register how much anyone has earned for the work done, will create more damage and confusion than it will benefit from paying the amount of income on the citizens, and in the amount paid for the executive work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44487	The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44488	Thank you, Madam President. As my colleague already said, Article 5. The draft law provides that the basis for the income tax of persons posted abroad represents the amount of earnings they would make in the Republic on the same or similar business. We find this unacceptable. Income tax is paid on all income, except for those excluded by the Income Tax Act, with the taxed income being the difference between the gross income achieved and the costs incurred in achieving and preserving them. So we propose to tax the revenue that has really been achieved, not the income that would have been achieved under those conditions. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the proposed solution aims to regulate the tax base for natural persons of residents of the Republic who are abroad for the purpose of carrying out transactions for legal persons of the resident of the Republic. This argument has nothing to say about the essence of our amendment. We filed the amendment on the basis of a tax return, not on who is the taxpayer. So I have to make an observation this time in ways to explain why the amendments don't go along. It's obvious you don't get into the essence of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44489	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44490	I can tell you what our intention was. So if you have the position of ambassadors in a country, you also have the position of ambassadors to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The goal here is for these two ambassadors, because the same ambassador who is now in Belgrade, to go to a country tomorrow, to pay the same income tax. In other words, he doesn't pay income tax that's conditioned by the pay gap he gets here and gets when he goes abroad because it reflects the increased cost of life and all the other elements that shouldn't be the basis. So that's the basic idea. The basic idea is just to avoid here, to say, nominal equality and that someone who gets out of the same budget five thousand dollars a month doesn't pay 500 dollars in income tax, but pays on that salary you'd have here, means about if it was, say, a thousand dollars or a thousand dollars, two hundred, it pays 100 or 120 dollars. It's just that. That's what the state would normally pay itself. This will also be a significant stimulant for companies operating abroad, as they will also reduce the cost of profit. Here, this has a potentially negative impact on budget revenues, but it reduces labour costs and increases our budget costs in the public sector, with diplomatic consular representations and reduces the costs of our businesses, which in particular in the areas of construction and other areas, make work abroad and therefore pay more income tax than usual. That was a basic idea. So I think she's well written. Now, whether or not we agree on that or not, that's obviously another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44491	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44492	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that there has been little consideration here and that these receipts of our diplomatic representatives abroad are much less than they would be realistic for every country where they are, and what my colleague says is quite fine, and I think, Mr. Minister, that I believe that the Ministry and the Government will monitor these events and if there are any drastic changes that will solve you properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44493	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44494	Thank you. Article 6 is interesting for two reasons. The first reason is that it defines what non-taxable incomes are, and others are related to journals. Two months or three ago, we had the government's decision and the amended regulation that the country's official budgets were 150 dinars, and the official travel logs were 15 euros, which is likely to have been welcomed by large applause by people who know how to run the state, with both left and right hands for two reasons. The first that such a regulation introduced additional obligations for private companies that are obliged to respect this same Law on Income Tax and for all amounts for which a private company here sends someone abroad had to pay an additional tax of more than 15 euros, and if you saw an employee in any company who has serious needs for jobs that he makes in Europe and to combine with 15 euros, then you see how much carcinogenic pulsism is where he doesn't belong. But fortunately, here's the law, so that mistake is being corrected. I'm always a supporter of the fact that it doesn't even matter who made the mistake, but it's important to fix the mistake and it's important to the one who fixed the error of saying it – well, now you've done it right, what was before was to save God. So, with this tax, this law lays down a daily daily for official travel in the country up to 2,168 dinars, which is good for officials from the military, police, inspectors, seduces, all those who have physical work on the ground by 12, 13 hours in Serbia, and a daily for official travel abroad up to 50 euros. Just one brief remark to all those who are inclined to shout that it's very scary and embarrassing that we all travel so abroad, it's all God-saved, it's all to be spared, to remind myself of 10 years between 1990 and 2000 where no one has ever traveled anywhere, and we've saved so much, so in 2000 we sincerely regretted all the things we've saved away from being part of the modern European and world community. I can only ask you to pay attention to the travel expenses of members of the ministries, government, parliament, whoever. And that you know that every expense to any of the presidents of the Assembly is through the president of the state to the last employee of the investment ministry. If you suspect there's an investment, then remember those nineties where we all sat isolated by muddy curtains all around. It's not saving. Criticize all of us who travel. Don't hurt the country we all represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44495	Thank you so much for these words. The word is Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44496	This case shows what I said about the previous amendment. What was done very quickly was corrected because it was seen not to produce the effects and results required. As for this second piece mentioned by counterpart Komic, I fully agree that it is necessary to travel. It may not be the best comparison for the 1990s because at the time it wasn't exactly that we didn't want to travel but were the circumstances that made it impossible. But let the best example be this fight for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO, that there was no action by all of us from the ministry, from other organisations, to try to influence individual countries to define themselves as they were most likely, there would be no successful vote, or result in UNESCO. That's why I think it's mandatory to travel, but we need to get used to ourselves and everyone around us and the citizens and the journalists, so it's not just an excuse to attack someone, to spit on someone, because each trip brings some result that is in the interests of all Serbian citizens and Serbia itself. I don't think there's gonna be any problem, that we're gonna be much smarter, smarter in the future, that we're gonna do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44497	The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44498	Ladies and gentlemen, let's just remind ourselves why this decision was actually made. About two or three months ago, we had a situation where the cost of official travel was enormous. This has nothing to do with the '90s, this has to do with 2015. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, staff expenditures are 24.5%, and travel costs are included in the economic category. Based on the report from the Treasury, which we were able to clearly spot and see, we realized that the incomes that some individuals make, i.e. expenditure on employees of individual individuals, are enormously high in the economic categories of travel costs. It is indisputable that private companies have rights and obligations and are partly right, but this is primarily about the abuses observed in the public sector. It is not just about officials in the Republic of Serbia, it is about a large number of institutions operating in the territory of the Serbian state, where the expenditure on official travel is enormous. Of course, it was already said at that time that it was an ad hoc decision and that the decision implies that the huge expenditures that had been permeated from that economic category should be stopped at the moment. Meanwhile, it is clearly seen that the problem has to be solved and this is a solution that implies that official travel will be regulated in a different way. But the essence is not in the journals, at their heights, but in the purpose and purpose of paying off those diaries. It is absolutely pointless to have expenses for employees, i.e. for personal incomes that are only one part and in the same amount of daily living over one month. That's what our society faces. This says first and foremost about the fact that the public sector in Serbia is very often, and that individuals in the public sector function completely differently compared to the private sector. What is essential is to change the way and mental set of functions primarily in the public sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44499	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44500	Yes, thank you. Now we have an illustration of how different we are in approach. If you have 700 people who have official travels, of them 700, seven have abuses. You're not changing the regulation by the amount of the daily log, you're asking for the abuse of those seven responsible. That's the difference in the world. That's why we're different. Why is it a common shame if you go on - yeah, these seven out of 700 have been abused, hit by all 700? That's not how successful societies work. That's the fundamental difference. We don't have any pleasure in that it's sweet for the populist ears -- now he's got his revenge. We don't, since that's what makes a successful society impossible at heart. Successful societies have individual responsibility, not making moves ad hoc, or whatever you want, by harming those who are most normal in accordance with all regulations. That's the problem. It's a problem of your approach to solving all things. That's the problem we have in education, which I call - you only pay attention to that child who either has a disciplinary problem or is very poor learning, instead of turning your education system towards who's good. These are key differences and it's good that these differences exist, because we can learn from each other on the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44501	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44502	Unfortunately, this doesn't solve the problem that, I say, caused the problem. So, the problem of abuse of the diary is not solved this way, but in order to allegedly solve this problem in a completely wrong way, multiple damage has been done. In this case, one part of the damage that has been done is corrected, which is that the companies are private, which have referred and directed because of the need for their employees' work on the official journey, had to pay due to the change in the government's tax regulation to the state, or higher, or to pay it without paying it at all. That's good, but this other part is bad for the public sector. I agree, there's probably been an abuse, there may be some useless going on official roads and stuff, but the change in the regulation didn't solve it at all, it stopped everything. Now we're waiting for something to happen. This isn't it. This doesn't solve that problem. Journals remain for official travel to the state public sector as the government has prescribed. There are still no parameters on the basis of which to measure whether someone who travelled anywhere has achieved some effect, learned something, did something. It's not gonna happen. So we only have one demagogue story where the prime minister says somewhere -- yeah, there's someone stealing on the diaries, taking the diaries, now I'm going to cut them to 150 dinars in the country, to 15 euros abroad. Well, it's the humiliation of people who should then go do something for this job both in Serbia and out of it. I'd like to see that problem solved, except here verbal desires and intentions shown to do so, but this isn't it. This solves the problem that we've created in the private sector, one part solves. But let's solve this problem seriously, not some mere demagogy and demagogue story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44503	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44504	Of course we're different, of course we're different and of course we should stay that way. I am definitely different and differing employees in Serbia, those who work in the private sector and those who work in the public sector. I don't see any reason why people who work in the public sector would think they should have the pay logs they have for travel. No one has to work here in the public sector. No one has to go abroad for 50 euros if it is 15 euros. No one has to, she can go to privates. He's very smart, capable, and he can make more there. Right? In Serbia, there is still a mental assembly that implies that the public sector is the essence of functioning and that people working in the public sector are privileged caste of people compared to everyone else. I repeat, 24.5% of the budget, where current expenditures are 92.5%, is simply politically irresponsible, demagogy, insisting on the travel costs of employees in the state administration, when Serbia faces huge economic problems caused primarily by fixed costs inherited from the previous period of time. So 92.5% of budget revenues are expenditures, unfortunately. I'd like to live in a country where it's not like that, where budget revenues could go much more to investment and investment. But what is essential is the reduction of expenditure on public sector employees is the future, particularly economic freedoms of the private sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44505	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44506	Now here we are on one case, to clear some things up, what it looks like in the public sector. The civil servant takes the official car to Novi Sad and raises the log. By the time Novi Sad went away for a few hours, he went back and was good at 2,200 dinars, which was what it looked like before the government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that okay? It's not. He goes to Nis for four or five hours, goes back and raises 2,200 dinars. Well, they started making up reasons why they'd go to Nis or Novi Sad. Well, em's spent and amortized the state vehicle, so he raises 2,200 dinars. Well, he makes half his salary in a month. What are you defending then? What can't do that for the private sector in the real sector? Well, he can't, that's where he keeps an eye on every penny. And you made me cry for all the civil servant who got paid for the plane ticket, who got paid for hotel accommodation, who got paid for breakfast at the hotel, which he can't survive with 15 euros there. Oh, you make me cry. Oh, I'm so sorry, all of them. Whose fate are you moaning over? Over yours? I can't understand that. You're talking here when you've lifted the papers from the MPs in this assembly, it wasn't demagogy, now what the whole state, the whole state apparatus is saving, it's for you demagogy. Well, let's even up the standards a little bit. Equalize standards with what you did while you were in power with what you're doing now that you're a former regime. Equalize, so you often ask in your amendments to delete the provisions of the law that you yourself voted for. Well, what did you vote for? Or you didn't read the laws, but you voted, which is what our minister suggested, so we trust him and we'll vote. Then I ask the question, what are you doing as MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44507	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44508	Thank you. The paradox of this discussion of whether anyone who works in the state administration, the ministry, in the public administration has his rights and demagogy about how they can be-sweep and be satisfied if they have a job in the public sector in general if they don't want to go in private. The paradox is that it is at the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia. What you're saying, you're talking about three thousand people who have provided screenings and who work for Serbia's European integration. You're talking about people who are essentially the ones who are carrying the reforms of the state administration. It's where you make enemies. To produce a public and private sector conflict is to block reforms that the Prime Minister is right to say. This kind of demagogy about having someone who has abused the official car in the public administration and because of that in words have an entire arsenal of terrible insults to people from the administration who work both for Minister Vujovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for all of us. It's not a shame you're making the law, it doesn't apply to us who have a completely different view of the world. It's the broken reform legs of those you support in the words of others. My advice is, don't do it. The work must be appreciated, and leave the demagogy for political jokes, do not involve the development and creation of a conflict between people who honestly do their job for Serbia, for all of us, and especially at this stage of negotiations for those who rightly and legitimately represent, ministers or anyone else in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44509	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a 65-minute break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44510	Dear People's MPs, we continue to work, and I apologize for this delay, but it was probably a higher power, so we can understand why the minister didn't come as said. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44511	Thank you, Vice President. So, as we had the opportunity to hear before the break, it's about official travel logs abroad, and here it is now proposed that for non-public sector entities, the untaxable amount be up to 50 euros a day. We have also said that it is an incredible demagogy, that this whole reduction in the diaries served to make the people happy and to see that the just prime minister is taking away from the officials the benefits that they do not belong to, and in fact those who have suffered from this reduction of the diaries are not any officials, are not any MPs, who do not have any diaries, but are people who are employed in the public administration, they are drivers who sometimes spend all day on the official road and they have 150 dinars at that time. It's the military, the police, they're all the ones who shouldn't have a 150-euro daily or a 15-euro daily daily, when it comes to travel abroad. Instead, you could have saved in other places, and we keep telling you that you are constantly saving in the wrong places, while in other places, all the savings that the people of the Republic of Serbia are experiencing, you throw that money out of the window at various costs, because your expenses are constantly increasing, just like the costs of the citizens, and the savings are nothing, so that, as we opposed to the reduction of the daily days, which is arranged not through the laws, but through the regulation, we are now opposed to this, and we are asking you to stop such demagogy and to restore the right to the diaries to be able to function with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44512	The 6th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS and ZS paid special attention to these two members, Article 7 and Article 8. Article 7 provides the benefits of an employer in case he employs an unemployed person. We predicted that instead of returning the part of the tax paid, which was given in item 1, we changed this position 1 and suggested that you free the employer of the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory social security on the employee and on the burden of the employer. We think it's far easier and more suitable for the employer. We had a change in attitude 2 and it is a position that says, who is considered an unemployed person, so among other things it is said that it is a person who, before establishing a working relationship with the National Employment Service, was without interruptions reported as unemployed, for at least six months, and a person considered a trainee, at least three months. We put a dot there and deleted this part of it – and during that time did not achieve any kind of income based on employment. I think it's an unnecessary restriction. Then in attitude 6, we predicted what we had predicted and in attitude 1. Yes – the employer has the right to release the obligation to pay part of the contribution. What's most important is that after the 6th position, we added the 7th position in which we predicted that an employer who creates a working relationship with a newly employed person who is under the age of 30, over 55 or a single parent, has the right to increase the rate from the 6th position of this member by another 15%. You have refused our amendment by reason of not accepting it, since the proposed legal solution refers to the precision of existing incentives for hiring new persons, which implies the return of part of the tax paid on the basis of earnings, etc. Our goal was to improve this member of the law, to contribute, to improve it, and to think that our solution is far better both for the employer and for the unemployed, so once again I ask you to reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44514	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44515	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on one subject which is both political and no doubt that the government, the majority of the parliament, is always interested in making it easier for entrepreneurs to work, but on the other hand, we need to be aware that certain tax revenues must be collected in the state register and the quality of life depends on it, both education and health and many things in the state of Serbia. What the government's intensity was, is that all those who are willing to hire two employees in the next period, and are referring to small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, this is some measure we have had so far, allowing them to continue with these reliefs and in the next period, until the end of 2017. As long as the entire tax system is not fully regulated or reformed, we cannot go so lightly with any kind of releases, because those revenues that are proposed by some solutions, a fellow opposition member, would have to be compensated in some other way. Certainly, we need one serious tax reform to find ourselves. At this point in time, however, both the government and the ministry, burdened with implementing reforms and fiscal consolidation, are aware that, although in 2015 we managed to avoid firing employees from the public sector, in 2016 it will not go so easily. The government has found the strength and found this model that possibly those employed in the public sector could transfer to a private economy and, in any case, facilitate their existence, so I think this law follows the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, where we also have a reduction in these obligations, paid by private entrepreneurs, and that the solution that the government has proposed is much more appropriate, and we can race with some kind of relief, but unfortunately, this country is currently unable to come out with so many tax reliefs, as some colleagues suggest. It's easy to be an opposition, and it's hard to be a government, and it's up to us to preserve the financial system and avoid the debt crisis, reduce the deficit and maintain the stability of the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44516	According to the amendment, here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44517	Thank you. I'm still standing, I think it's more stimulating for the employer to know that they're going to have tax breaks and that it's important that the state informs him of their solutions in good time and enables them to have tax breaks. I would really like the minister to answer this question of ours. I don't know what's at stake in this article of the bill allowing people in a group of hard-working people to think of for over 55 years, they mean those up to 30 years. So I'd like to hear from Mr. Minister what's controversial about this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44518	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44519	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and honored guests, what is important to us as well as in this Article 6, we think it is very important to get rid of the most brutal demagogy that we often have the opportunity to listen to and Mrs Branka Karavidic has made one solution and we think that it is more comprehensive than this. We predicted that this member be deleted as all the other members, as a form of our protest since we discussed 74 laws through only a few dozen minutes. And we think it's very bad when it comes to those things by the state that concern, for example, those that are being treated as unemployed. Well, in those six months, if one day someone doesn't report that they're unemployed, he loses that status and then he loses some other rights, as soon as he's gone on record and the state considers him to have his problem solved. With that in mind, we have 55% of young people who are unemployed and often are. What happens is that out of 250 or 80 thousand of them out there on the desk, we have so many more that they simply or can't or won't or simply don't comply with the law, they're able to apply to the Bureau. It's very bad, although this member, to a large extent, regulates much better than he does now, I agree with Mr. Minister. But on the other hand, we have to take care of these other things that make it difficult for anyone who is unemployed. Whether the state treats him that way or not, it's not the subject of this law, I agree with it, but among other things, there should have been maybe a Minister of Labour who, come on, wouldn't have told us anything new than that everywhere in the world, but he didn't. Well, that's what got into us as representatives of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44520	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44521	Thank you, Your Honor. I hope, Mr. Chairman, that you didn't understand what was offered from the previous speaker to improve something, except that everything needs to be deleted, and as we have seen in the near past, all that is well exists are those who want to delete it. We've seen how it was in their time, how they cared about young people, but it's not too late, Your Honor. They also have a chance at this moment to employ tens of thousands of young people in the AP Vojvodina, but not the administration of the AP Vojvodina, but to make a real income in terms of making it easier for investors, to raise the private sector, so that we can hire young people. But this is one in a series of demagogues that when you've had all the time in this world you've done nothing, and today when you're offering good examples that can help us have better solutions and better incentives, they don't do it. And no one is saying that something that is adopted in the form of a law can be implemented overnight and that benefit in the first month or two days, but if you have tax incentives for employment, where every new employee you reduce the income tax on, or you return 60%, 65%, 75%, depending on the number of employees, I think that this is the first step towards making it possible first of all for people who have employees to report their employees, that what's called the grey economy goes into legal flows, to be transparent, and in the end of the day, that makes us good balances that will show up in all statistics when the cuts are made. I think this is a good way and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been sacrificed in order to allow for the best conditions that we can of course enable without the state having any harm to do, to try in every way possible to reduce the number of unemployed in our country. I would remind the citizens of Serbia, and it is very important that they know that Serbia's unemployment in 2008 was 14.5%, after major experts and major reforms and those who had the huge courage to "implement" them, we came to the situation that we have 25% of the unemployed in 2012. Today, the unemployment rate in statistics is lower. That it's ideal, it's not ideal. To a greater extent, the number of unemployed who are being reduced is because by decisions like this, by laws, regulations, we have allowed people to be registered, to be legalized at their jobs, and that is the obligation of the state. It is the wish of all young people working in Serbia in the private sector to contribute, to be reported, that no one gives money to them, and to take them to the minimumer, etc. It's a battle you don't win overnight, you don't win in a month or two. There's something about our mentality. We always knew how the law could be bypassed. Since the 1990s, it has been known, but I think that slowly and safely the state is building a single system that is sustainable and that we must all look after when it is, it can never, of course, be ideal, but when it's far better than it was before. Therefore, I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to congratulate Mr Vujovic for fighting in every way possible to make our numbers as good as possible, because it is an objective indicator of what the situation in Serbia is, and the situation in Serbia is not ideal and nobody has ever said it, but it is far better than it was. What is more important, and citizens recognize it, and you can see that in talking to them what they think about it, today we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic, who honestly, responsibly and safely does his job and no one can blame it, that people recognize, know and appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44522	On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44523	Thank you. This is one in not these of our protest amendments, this is why we want to delete it, because the only thing you know about doing is imposing new imposes on citizens, and what even looks like it's good is just not good enough because it could be much better. You here want a part of the tax to be returned to the employer. We want them to be tax-free. We think you have to find money for that. You have to have money for that. We even believe that it is necessary to undertake that every young person who has graduated from college, mastered, mastered or doctored, is employed within a period of six months after the Master's degree, graduation, doctoring or mastering, and that the state frees this employer who will hire such a person, absolutely all contributions and all charges on salaries and contributions. To be done within six months, it takes less than 100m euros. At this session alone, we have a bill that we will talk about and how you take over 200m euros, only one public enterprise, and you put it at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Another problem with this, we'll talk about it in the next amendment, is who you treat as unemployed. When it comes to how unemployment falls, it's another one of your fairy tales, I don't think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have anyone in their environment who's recently found a job without being a member of the SNS, but everything is, as the previous speaker said, in order to make the numbers look good. While the numbers look good to you, citizens live worse and worse, but they know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44524	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44525	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, we cannot accept such an amendment, but what has bothered me as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, when they say - you must find the money. Yeah, they're supposed to find the money, but I think someone took the money and I'm inviting people on the other side to pay you back. When we talk about unemployed young people and employment incentives, just return what you took from the Vojvodine Development Bank, from the Capital Investment Fund, return what you took from children who were distracted by development when you were supposed to build the Hetherland Castle, and you took the money, you left the September. Here, put that back, and there'll be money. Let's get something back, Mr. Elezovic. Let few return those who are no longer in your apartment but in another, so let them return Miroslav Miskovic. You have that list that's long. Let's all go back for a little bit, and there will be, there will be money. You only knew how to take, you never gave anything. While there was anything to be taken, you were taking. Mr. Pajtic takes it today, but because when he takes so much, when he hasn't given anything to the people, he normally has an extraordinary idea, Mr. Chairman, which is to boycott the election. Imagine when you have such results, I think it's the best solution to boycott the election, to say that in Serbia, the injustice that half of the citizens support Alexander Vukic's policy, because of course if you go to elections, the results will be catastrophic. Why? Because for 10 years you've been putting your hands on the citizens in your pocket, and that's why they don't even have pensioners, neither do young people who are unemployed. You had all the time in this world, when the situation at global level and in Serbia was far better, when there was, the Honorable Chairman, what to privatize, and not to be robbing privatizations, if you had done all this transparently, responsibly, honestly, there would have been money, we would have had to patch up all the holes, but since you've been acting arrogantly and sysy, as you are today acting on the municipality I'm coming from, the Palilula municipality, the Belgrade municipality, as you behave in the AP Vojvodina, so no wonder that we're struggling to raise our country's economy and how to make our people's lives better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44526	The word is from MP Veroljub Arsic, Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44527	Mr. Chairman, Article 106(3) has been broken. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Out of the MPs' benches of the former regimes, my esteemed colleague, Jovicic, said that because he reminded them of everything they did while they were in power, which increased the unemployment rate by 10%, which still does not work properly, which is still the city of Belgrade in its entire territory, or on the territory of city municipalities, where they are still in power, does not work properly. They told him to talk because he mentioned the Vojvodina Development Bank, because he mentioned Agrobank, and most of all it bothered them because he asked them to return the money. It seems to me that it hurts the most, because the only thing they love most, they love more than Serbia, they love more than anything else in the world, is money. When you ask them for the money they consider their own, that's when the biggest problem arises. Otherwise, they say very easily – find 100m euros, so it's small. I see they found 100m euros in the budget very easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44528	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The practice is here to throw, but you must admit that in his debate, Jovicic went a little off topic. Don't applaud me, there's no reason for that, because I'll tell you later, and then the other side will applaud and we won't have any of that. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: they are used to being inserted. ) Do not throw or insert. Mr. Arsic, would you like to make a statement? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44529	In addition to careful listening and best intentions to understand this amendment, I am in no condition to do so. Perhaps our viewers and MPs will understand. These amendments in Article 7(3) specify what was already in the law. So, instead of the text – except in accordance with the law governing contributions to compulsory social security based on the establishment of a working relationship with that person, it is only precise – except in accordance with the provisions of the law governing contributions to compulsory social security. So those provisions of the law, rather than being precise – which refers to the same type of relief based on establishing a working relationship with that person. There's absolutely no newspaper here, except for the precision of the wording. Therefore, there are no new burdens, no new means needed, but this is merely a relief to the application of the law to our colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44530	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44531	Thank you. Article 8 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes is added to Article 21d, which has nine or more views and in all these positions defines what is the employer, what is considered a newly employed person, what is tax relief and time periods when this new right, or obligation, is introduced, if it is a relief obligation. Therefore, the employer is considered, within the meaning of the first position of this Article 21d, a legal person who, within the meaning of the law governing accounting, is classified as micro and small legal persons, as well as an entrepreneur who creates a working relationship with at least two new persons and has the right to recover 75% of the paid income tax for a newly employed person, paid at the conclusion of 31 December 2017, where the entrepreneur is considered to be a person enrolled in the register by the competent authority or organisation. I'm only gonna stick to this attitude, because I don't think the whole member is well defined, except at the same time in two places you define what the employer is. So, first of all, you say that a legal person who, in the sense of a law governing accounting is classified as micro and small legal persons, so is a comma, as is an entrepreneur who has a working relationship with at least two new persons, and then finally, where an entrepreneur is considered a person registered in a register with a competent authority, or organisation. Who else would consider himself an entrepreneur? I don't want other attitudes. This will be enough to be heard, so to be understood, that when we submit amendments to which we ask for precision of views, that is to make it clear that the law is being applied, or that when we submit amendments to delete, it means that we have a whole different policy of tax relief that we consider to be good for new employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44532	The word has a folk apostle Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44533	Article 8 of course needs to stay and not be deleted. Whatever you're normising and whatever you're defining, it's essentially a new mechanism that includes, and when it comes to the taxpayer, it actually has a 75% income tax deduction and a 75% deduction from basic social security. For a small company that employs one or two for the first time in Serbia's history, and in Article 7, we extended this right from 1 July 2016 to December 2017 that all small entrepreneurs, small businesses, have the right to pay less 75% of the income tax to the state, i.e. the mandatory social security tax. It is a fiscal burden, i.e. a reduction of revenues for the Republic of Serbia's budget. If it's not good and it doesn't encourage employment and if someone has something against it, then we're different. The general and common interest of all of us, when fiscal consolidation passes, or this savings, however, must be that labour taxes and general consumption taxes are reduced. We are doing this at a time when we seem to be able to endure in the budget that we have these reductions, as we have when we passed a year and a half of the law defined to be only half of 2016, today we say, because of the good macroeconomic results and small deficits in the budget that we have, that we can endure these measures because we predict that in 2016 and 2017 there will be enough money, because these measures cost the Republic of Serbia's budget and directly affect the increase in employment, i.e. increasing the personal consumption of entrepreneurs and all employees by 75%. Is that enough? No, but certainly the shift and the slight shifts in these difficult economic times are progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44534	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I hope to be clearer now. The focus of these changes is in the first position of this member. So, to put it short, an employer who employs one or two persons has the right to return the income tax of 75%, as soon as possible. You said in that same attitude that for a newly employed person, taxes are, therefore, those reductions apply to all those who hired new employees and are paid together with 31 December 2017. Our proposal is that this employer who first has to pay the total tax to the state and waits for vomiting later has a different type of relief. So, at the very beginning, there's a release, or release of this 75 percent obligation, to be absolutely clear. We predict that this period does not last until the end of 2017, but that it lasts for a period of two years, because it is far easier for an employer, who, for example, in half of 2016 or at the end of 2016 employs one or two persons to know that he will have that kind of privilege over the next two years, not in a year or a year and a half. And I ask you once again to look at this amendment of ours, because I think it's stimulating for the employer, of course, and it allows more people to work. I hope the government of which you are the finance minister doesn't only care about numbers, but also about citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44536	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44537	As with the other members, we suggested that it be erased as a whole. For the simple reason that we are constantly talking about incentives for employment, the possibility that someone who doesn't have a job, that job gets easier, and whether there are new jobs, that's not at the end of the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't answer that, but let's do two or three decimals here to change, to insert something that's obviously a relief, and if there's a new job, as such, absolutely no one's talking about it. A short word came out that 54 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia have been blocked, 54 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. Serbia has 30% industrial development compared to 1989, so where are these companies, where are these factories, where are these employees? That's now gone in the last few years, from 2008 to 2012, or was it missing in the 1990s, when some of them had different uniforms here? So, we have a big problem, 55% of young people are unemployed, and we want it to be essentially easier for them by paying them an average salary and taxes for at least a year and giving them the opportunity to gain some experience on the labour market, working experience so that they can continue to fight in Serbia, not to go out of the country. And to talk about incentives for employment or certain reliefs provided by this law, and we have no jobs and no jobs, it's pure demagogy. That's what it is: I'll take away your journals and we'll take away your rotations, and then in Serbia everyone will live better. There's no better life than that. It's all demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44538	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44539	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course we can't accept an amendment that says the whole law is deleted, but I'd like to add to the rotation. It's just the attitude of the state to the citizens. We know how it was before, how many official cars with rotations, almost all the secretaries of the former ministers were able to use rotations, official vehicles, to behave arrogantly and violently. The practice with it is over. When you talk about the company's blockades, I believe the Guards company, Mr. Honorable Chairman, is blocked. How and not to be blocked, when a million and a half euros are paid, and nothing is done. I'm sure there are plenty of companies close to Mr. Pitiæ. I would remind only a few citizens of Serbia, I spoke about it at one of the press conferences, remember only an example when we talk about the AP Vojvodina Investment Fund. What it means to give some money, let's assume it's 100,000 euros, and it was more, to develop its own private business, to return money to the state, of course, and certain interest, and that after they came back to someone else to develop something. That's how it's supposed to work in a normal world. However, the chairman of the board of directors of the same funds, Mr Pajtic, had another practice. You now give the Honorable Chairman to me a 100 000-euro loan, turn the money around and I return 143,000 toothbrushes or return your syphons. That's how it was done and that's how it works when Mr. Pitiæ decides in this country. To whom he will give the funds and how those funds will return, and we with toothbrushes can do nothing, nor hire anyone, with siphons even less. So don't talk about unemployment. You have a regional prime minister who has a chance today to bring in a large number of investors, and when he goes beyond our country's borders, except that he panics and all the worst stories about his country, it would be better to make some arrangement for someone to come here, invest money and hire workers. It's his duty. This is why people chose him in 2012, but soon saw incompetence, the irresponsibility that he was extremely vulnerable to corruption, and therefore punishment in politics will arrive in the next election. The man's obligation is no longer to sit in the shadow of the government, although we don't know where the representation is, but to fight for its citizens, to fight to attract investment and hire people. This concludes, Mr. Chairman, and unlike that, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandra Vukic daily struggles to build as many highways in our country, to open up as many factories as possible and to have as little unemployment as possible and to have a goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44540	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. I'd like to ask you a little more about the amendment, though. Mr. Kiriq, on what grounds? (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44541	I see there's a big and significant mood in the benches across the street. Obviously, there are a lot of reasons for all these successes, but it's very important to mention a young colleague and the question, since they sit here and dentists give an answer to the simple question, since you were wondering what a toothbrush is for. They're for brushing teeth. I think the important answer to what you keep mentioning is what you keep calling everyone in the DS, and especially to the president of the party. As they were according to the previous and how you dedicated some 150 front pages to the attacks, and that the moment he is no longer the president is no longer the biggest criminal in Serbia, you are now calling Mr. Pajtic. That's what you'll call every next president of the DS. I think it's important that you say once, after three and a half years, because you have all the power in this country, because you announce arrests, because you have all the mechanisms of government, I think it's important that you deal with institutions, strengthen these institutions, and that without such references, without any arguments, you do your job, because it's obvious that the answers are only criminal charges to these unfounded accusations that we hear from day to day. This shows your responsibility and your willingness to invest in institutions. I think that approach is exactly what blocks Serbia the most and all those creative people who are willing to do something for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44542	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44543	Mr. Chairman, I don't think you're saying unfounded, but you're saying unfounded, but good. On the other hand, I'd like to make one correction. My esteemed colleague and friend, Aleksandar Jovicic, is not the editor or owner of any, or daily newspaper, or any media, as well as anyone from the SNS, unlike the former, and they change so quickly, the president of the DS who owned several written media. So, this earlier remark -- you've been making some headlines, sent to my colleague Jovičić, is really out of place, and I believe that it's more a reflection of what you see when you look at yourself in the mirror. I mean here on DS, no one personal. On the other hand, when the amendment promoter, Mr. Chairman, speaks in the National Assembly, or in the media, or explains the amendment, or the bill, or anything, the SNS rating jumps to heaven. I just wish I could, and I know that I can't because the Rules of Procedure are making it impossible for me, I'd take SNS time, because he's doing so well on the SNS rating, that I'm very grateful to him. Because the amount of untruths and the amount of political hatred that people in Serbia have long recognized, and people in Serbia clearly reward it, or punish it. Well, since there are most of the properties and most of the investments, catering facilities, truth, young colleague, no new investments, we can't make a factory in Old Town, even though we're trying to bring investment to Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44544	Mr. Granny, I'm really trying to understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44545	Here, now you'll see, I'll connect you to the amendment very soon, but I have to connect to one of the previous speakers. Well, when he said he didn't see the jobs, I'd like him to go to Smederevo, and look at PKC Smederevo, an eightm-euro investment, 1500 employees. I believe these 1,500 employees just applauded the amendment promoter, because here's the truth. Well, I'd like him to go to Turkey, so he can see the "Trick Light" investment worth 11m euros and 500 employees. I would also take him to Pirot to see Tiger Tyres, 215m euros in investment, 500 employees. Furthermore, NCR Belgrade, it is closer to him, it can see, sitting in the same one of his expensive cars, of several tens of thousands of euros. He'll come around. The value of the investment is 14.5m euros, the number of jobs 800. Well, to visit Subotica, to visit Koceljeva, to visit the State in Stara Pazova of 12m euros and 150 employees. Also, to visit Ruma "In Connect", 8.500,000 investments worth, 406 employees. And that's close. He can go, here, there are my colleagues from Novi Sad, I believe that Mr. Zarko Micin will be a good host, visit everything we do and prepare for the investment of the Lir company "Lir" of 17,000,000 euros and 2,000 employees. I believe that I would spend all the time the SNS has on amendments talking about all the investments and all the jobs that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic opened for young people, but also for all those people that DS ruled this country, unfortunately in some parts and now, left out of work. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44546	I don't see the basis for the replica. You can get the amendment if you want. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I apologize, but Mr Babic said – the amendment promoter. Yes, but that's not enough reason. He was just making examples, I was paying good attention. At first you know that I reacted, but then he cited examples of where everything is and how many people are employed, given your discussion of this amendment. He didn't really hurt you with anything. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: I have no right for two minutes? I can give you, you have time for the amendment. You are the applicant for the amendment, and you have the right to report back. Here's your amendment, if you'd like? (No) Thank you. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Alexandra.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We would be happy to accept this proposal by Mr Babic, but the law prohibits these reliefs from being given in these companies, because it is well said that these false investments, which are why Serbia is in charge, and are paid by Serbian citizens, do not belong to this group of investment and to this group of business entities where employers are exempt from part of the tax on salaries and fees. Here, let's say, you mentioned the New Sad. A wonderful theme, a wonderful Lir investment, for which Novi Sad gives 4 billion dinars, a billion dinars for land equipment and three billion dinars for building the hall, gives a 12.5m-euro plot, and Lir will, dear Mr Babić, imagine, for the next 10 years in the city's budget to pay a billion dinars. This means that in 40 years, Novi Sad will be at zero when it comes to this investment, so you can see that it is a great investment, without a property worth 12.5m euros. In addition, the fabulous Lear is calling a contest for 1,000 employees, where one is the only condition for someone to be hired to stand for eight hours. That means...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44548	Miss Jerkov, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44549	That's exactly what this is about. I want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44550	It's not an amendment to how busy it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44551	Wait, you were just saying that Mr. Babic was just talking about the amendment because he listed where he was employed...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44552	I'm sorry, I don't have an amendment in front of me right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44553	You now seem to suggest that even that employer who gets 30,000 euros per job and pays the minimum wage to employees, that he too be exempt from part of the tax on contributions and profits. It's just, I don't know, give anyone on the street four billion dinars to see what kind of investor he's gonna be and see how successful a businessman he's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44554	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44555	What distinguishes our policies, what is essential, Mr. Chairman, is important to us that the Novosadians work, it is important for us that both the people of Novi Sad and Vojvodina and Serbia get hired, that they can work for the salary, that they can take that salary home, that they can school their children, that they can have the existence, that all those people whom the amendment's policy has left out of work. If you're bothered by such investors, and imagine you don't mind Mile Jerkovic's investor. Imagine, Darko Saric was presented as a great investor in Vojvodina. And who did he hire? To whom did he bring happiness, he and his like? Unlike the promoters and the policy of the amendment's promoter, yes, we'll wrap the halls, we'll make drives, we'll make a roof over the head. And where did you spend a million and 200,000 euros? Where's Hetherland? Where's the children's home distracted by development? For a million and 200,000 euros, for those children and their families, their parents left one metal board, a board with a picture of how it was supposed to be, and money was spent. What about that money? What about Tesla Bank? What about the Capital Investment Fund? What about the other banks you've ruined, what citizens of the Republic of Serbia's budget had to make up for the damages you've done? What's up with that? That's a lot more than four billion dinars. Yes, we give and we give four billion dinars, but 2,000 Novosadians, 2,000 people living in Vojvodina, will have a future, will have their own existence, unlike your policy, which was only for your existence and for your future. No, we work for the future of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44556	Thank you. Alexandra Jerkov, on what grounds do you want? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: you think I don't have the right to a replica? No, he didn't mention you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: We did not give them Hetherland.) Please, Mr. Granny, I am the chairman, let me explain to Mrs. Jerkov. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: You think I'm not an amendmentr? I followed closely, his was, he didn't mention you at all, he didn't even mention the party, he talked about the investments and you saw and you heard for yourself. So I don't think you really have the right to a replica. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov's MPs and Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vuckovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44557	Thank you. Article 11 is amended as follows: ‘a kiosk in a trailer or a similar assembly or moving object’ is replaced by the words ‘a kiosk in a trailer or a similar facility’. In addition to the interestingness of this language, therefore, the reason why assembly or moving objects are thrown out of the text is interesting and the replacement of words: ‘a kiosk in a trailer or a similar assembly or moving object’ is simply ‘a kiosk, trailer or a similar object’. If there were explanations within the member itself, it would be clear what the basic motive of the legislator to leave out an assembly facility, if the installation facility was a problem because reality brought this as a problem, then we would understand. But when you leave the words "like an object" then you leave the possibility and that's what you do from a member to a member. It's a huge problem of our laws, provisions that can be interpreted always find interpreters. When the provisions that can be interpreted find interpreters, then the interpreters find reasons to make an injustice, because for one who approaches an interpreter, interprets it in one way, and for the other in a different way and that is a lack of rule of law that is fairly visible and that citizens feel whenever they have contact with a provision that is not clear enough. So, it is our intention that, as in the previous case, when we asked that there is a horizontal connection that the ministries cooperate, to clarify the concepts of the law, not to be a law in which one concept means one, in the other, and that we are not the majority of us who are before any public authority and before someone who interprets those provisions in their own way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44558	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, what's the point when it comes to our amendments that require the erasure of the entire law. First of all, out of the protests and the lack of existence and inadequacy of the ruling majority to really discuss each law as it suits the citizens of Serbia, but all right, we are now on one subject and on one member who is very inaccurately defining the assembly facilities, trailers. Is it something similar to the booth, because in the last few months, or should I say, for a year now, there have been such examples and many are calling for holes in the law, and many are calling for different interpretations under that law. And who? Who are these people who keep just like these objects from this member in the area, for example? The Sava amphitheater? Who are they that can make restaurants out of promotion booths? So, is this law that applies to restaurants or to the law that applies to booths? Are those who are the owners of the restaurant and the owners of the assembly facilities on Savamala and at the Sava amphitheater, subject to this law or not? Or do they say something like that? Therefore, only for the narrow circle of the SNS peak is one interpretation, but for all others and the like, it applies to other citizens a different interpretation. Now, this is about whether the law is accurate or not, because in everyday life we can find a million examples of how these shortcomings are used by individuals just to protect, or to protect some of their financial interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44560	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44561	Thank you, Your Honor. We haven't heard who these people are, and obviously we haven't heard from the previous speaker any argument, except that the whole law is deleted, and this law is a good, respected chairman. And while the previous speaker deals with trailers and explores where the trailer is, or what stand, I must remind the previous speaker that he is also the chairman of the City Committee of a party, which has hardly done anything on new jobs in Belgrade. And to me, the chairman, when we are talking about investment, new jobs, full of heart that the Obrenovac plant "Meita" will be built to produce auto parts, which will make auto parts for BMW, Ford, Reno, Chrysler, the investment is 60m euros for a Belgrade municipality, the Obrenovac municipality, where 1,400 people will be employed. Why am I saying this to the esteemed chairman, it is the mayor's obligation, it is the responsibility and president of the municipality, but I live in the Palilula municipality, the Belgrade municipality, where the DS has been in power since 1997, never, ever, since I know of myself, have seen any single investment. And in Karaburma, Višnička Banja, Borci, Ovči, Padinska skele, Kovilova, Mad Fok, Jabbučki rita, we haven't seen a single investment anywhere, but it's important to determine where the trailer is. And it just tells you what the relationship to the economy, to investment, to new jobs, is that it's the easiest thing to erase, but gentlemen, create something, don't always delete it. Try to create something. I expect the Palilu municipality to receive such an investment, and I call on Mr. Mayor, Sinisha Malo, to allow conditions for people from Palilula, Surcin, Old Town, of all municipalities in Belgrade to be employed. That's our goal. In order to achieve this, Mr. Chairman, first of all, we need to convince all investors of a good economic, diplomatic policy that no one in Serbia will ever recalibrate them again, that no one will ask them for anything else, that someone will give them something. We started doing it, to restore trust in whoever wants to invest both outside and out of our country, to make it possible for all the reliefs that are in our power and opportunities for people to get a chance to develop their jobs and to hire people. Once again, when one Obrenovac gets a 60m-euro investment, find me that investment that was five times smaller and that Mr Pajtic brought it. We've heard here before, if you give someone four billion dinars off the street, you'll see how good an investor he is. So Pajtic took four billion euros in these 10 years, so we saw how he knows how to take that money in his pocket without using another term, because I was so scared of their lawsuits that, I don't know, I'm probably not gonna be able to sleep tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44562	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44563	Article 12 changes Article 41, and in general talks, essentially on flat-rate taxation. What's the paper? The paper is that the starting basis of item 2 which is to determine the flat-rate income per group, according to attitude 1, is determined by reference to the average monthly earnings per employee, made in the Republic, the municipality, or the city in the year preceding the year for which the flat-rate income is determined. So these criteria, or elements, are in seven points. The place where the store is located, the number of employees, the market conditions in which the activity is carried out, the area of the place, the age of the obligor and its working capacity, the amount of the income of the obligor who, under the same or similar conditions, performs the same or similar activity. Other circumstances affecting the achievement of profits and are argued that the tax authority will also take into account these evidences, elements and facts, as well as everything it has come to through control. The last attitude is the most problematic in this article - the government is regulating closer to the conditions, criteria and elements for flat-rate taxation. Why is that a problem? Because lawyers will negotiate with the government. I know exactly how hard it is to get lawyers into the tax system as usual are professions. It was tried two, three times, and the lawyers were stronger, and I congratulate them on that. I love a capable, focused and resolved opponent, or representative of my own interests. But this member, because we have a situation where lawyers are also paying a flat tax, you're going to put one big social group in an unequal position with this member, relative to another social group. How is the problem solved? By leaving it entirely safe for the government to regulate closer to the conditions, criteria and elements for flat tax. This will end in discreet talks with the lawyer and the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44564	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This article also refers to the example I set in the previous amendment, and we put it to be deleted, for the simple reason, how are we now going to flatly determine the tax, for example, the promotion stand of the "Belgrade on Water" project? When kevapi are sold there, when beer is sold there, when alcoholic, non-alcoholic drinks are sold there, and it is registered for example as a stand to promote the project, which will bring Belgrade three and a half, the chairman, billions of euros. So, since we have already donated the entire plot to the Sava amphitheater, since we have arranged that part of the city, completely different from the rest of Belgrade and only those who have the right to keep the catering facilities have special conditions, compared to all other hosts in Belgrade. We ask, how will the Government of the Republic of Serbia, under this law, define taxes on a flat-rate basis, for people who work there? Here, I am genuinely interested in this because it is also one of the holes in the law, where the SNS summit is called on when it comes to their business in that part of Belgrade. And that's what's wrong and that's what's not the market and that's what's monopoly and that's what's not the rule of law. Without the rule of law, where all citizens are equal in front of laws, but all of them, not a large majority for one rule, and only one particular number that makes the elite completely different and much more privileged. It's just not a rule and it can never be a rule. It's not in line with the constitutional arrangement of the country and that's what we're up against. There's a lot of cobwebs from the government over the last few years, and we've heard different cobwebs today. But this problem must be solved and citizens must all be on the same level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44566	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44567	Thank you, Your Honor. We cannot accept the amendment, but beware of this destructive approach to our country's economic policy. We all know that in the last 70 years, no one has moved one stone from the "Savamale" move where the "Belgrade on Water" Project is being built, which will primarily raise our country's construction industry, employ new people, where it will bring more money to the Republic of Serbia's budget. From these means, we will be able to develop our economy, to raise these factories in our country, to have them socially endangered, to raise pensions to the pensioners, etc. Speaking of restaurants. Excuse me, but what was there in your time? Is it a shed? And if you'll excuse the shed, did any of the states have any of that? From any restaurant in the country, taxes are paid and it goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's where some people work. And don't accuse the SNS, because if we talk about who has the location of the restaurants, it's going to be a long list on your part, a long list. We saw people who didn't have anything become ministers, repressive ministers, and then become the biggest investors in Vracar. These are all examples of the former regime and the current one in the province government. But there was never a single euro in that location. You say -- investments of three and a half billion euros. Well, if you'd brought three-and-a-half euros, someone would have told you all the honors. We've had 50 old wrecks of ships, a drug bust, and that's the biggest potential we have in Belgrade. You didn't know how to use it. What I'd like to remind you of, so you were the first to offer the Manhattan concept in Belgrade in 2008 at the same location. You had a picture, that's what I showed in the shows where I was visiting with you at RTS, Manhattan in Belgrade, are also towers, sports facilities, etc. What did we get after five years? Nothing. We got a ruin, we got an abandoned space, weeds, and someone here would make money for their country. As you can see, we are nine days ahead of all deadlines when I talk about the "Belgrade on Water" project and there is a fundamental difference. The fundamental difference between the government you had, where it was all taken and carried away. We create unlike you. What's the dynamic of speed? You're the last to talk about it, because you didn't do anything. But the citizens are there who, above all, see the sacrifice, see the responsibility that we want to change something for the better, and I am convinced that with our people we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44568	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, just since we've both changed, then the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've some things I really don't understand. I've heard all kinds of stories about this amendment, but no one's even read what part of the law is actually changing. I'd read that, basically, it's just a more precise technical piece of the 41st basic law that they wrote themselves. Which confirms my theory that, while most MPs were just pressing buttons in electronic units and voting, not reading the law. Now, I can't understand why someone's bothering the "Belgrade on Water" project. Who were they planning to give that part of Belgrade to, or to give it to themselves? What would be the public interest? Is it possible that their biggest sponsor and their biggest investor, Miskovic and Delta Company? Or your former financial director, DS? And when I say the biggest investor, the biggest foreign investment while they were in power, was two billion euros for selling the "Maxie" trade chain "Delezu". For them, the sale of assets is foreign investment. They still had the courage to call it a direct foreign investment. Well, he could have bought it for anyone. There could have been some from here who, during your government, acquired huge capital and money. Maybe those who moved around Belgrade are driving in expensive cars and giving DS their apartments. No wonder they give. What's an apartment for them? So much that party gave them apartments, they don't have to do anything for another hundred years. Could it be those who planned the land that was given for the "Belgrade on Water" project? So now they think the law is unconstitutional...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44570	Ambassador, it's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44571	I'm done. They even took the right to be judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44572	Yes, I do. Too much. Thank you. Are you going to log out or have you called again? Okay. I think that's enough for this amendment, talking off topic. There will be certain opportunities beyond the subject to talk, it cannot be avoided, but on this amendment quite a lot. A letter from Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44573	I thank the president. Item 5. – The government regulates closer conditions and criteria and elements for pausing taxation. I suggest that this attitude be deleted from this article. The reason is very simple, I ask the minister – does it seem to him that the Government in this Assembly can make at least one draft of a law that does not give itself broad discretion that, hidden from the public's eyes and beyond the criteria, it makes it easier for these or those, helps them or those who, under conditions known only to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but certainly not under the conditions defined by the law. When we had the budget here, the three main objections were the Fiscal Council on Budgets, and there are the Agency's objections to the corruption, to all the laws that you're offering us here. First, to fake the decline in unemployment, second, to hide how much you pay investors and third, which is directly related to these two previous ones, that the government is giving itself a very large discretionary solution to the laws proposed by the National Assembly here. That was the case with the Investment Law, where we told you that you couldn't decide who you were going to, when, how much you were doing and who you weren't going to do. This is the case with the law we discussed yesterday, where some government commission will decide independently in a direct agreement with, call, investors, about who will give even a third of the land in each municipality of the AP Vojvodina, this is also the case with this, where you say the government will arrange closer conditions, criteria and elements for flat tax. We've seen you determine these conditions and we don't trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44574	Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44575	Thank you very much. I don't know, here's where I ask my colleagues, they say – for legal technical reasons we put these last two paragraphs. Let me read to you what it was like in the previous law of 2001. In determining the flat-rate income, the tax authority shall also take into account all the evidence, facts and data that it has obtained through control and otherwise. The government of the Republic of Serbia regulates closer conditions, criteria and elements for flat-rate taxation. From word to word, there has been no change since 2001. Therefore, I do not know where you have all this structure, which you have built on, and I do not know who else, other than the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia, would determine closer conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44576	Thank you. Parliamentarians Natasa Vuckovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted the 13th amendment together. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44577	Thank you. Article 13 adds a new member in Article 42, which continues to deal with flat-rate taxation and says that, exceptionally from Article 1, in Article 42, an entrepreneur who starts his activity during the year, may, at the time of registration, submit a request for flat-rate taxation to a competent organisation running the register of economic operators, which will forward that request to the tax authority, and, of course, change the order of views technically. What you're saying can, it means that it doesn't have to, or that it's going to apply for a flat tax later on the deadlines set by other members of the law, and not like this when this is put in place as a possibility, when in the course of the year the performance begins to be carried out at the time of registration in an opportunity to submit. So, what does he submit at the time of registration as a request for a flat tax? I understand the intention, but it's like a lot of other members misspelled, because if he starts working in August, he can apply for a flat tax, then a competent authority based on what elements will grant him that, when he has just begun his activity? So, I understand the intention, but then it had to be written and whether for this special exceptional moment all the elements, which is not possible, are all seven points, in order to determine what is the flat-rate tax, or not. I repeat, I am against the provisions that can be interpreted, whoever voted for them whenever and in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44578	Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44579	Thank you for reading the bill carefully. Our intention was honorable, and that's to do what they do in the world, so we don't count this as an extra step in the duking business, so if it has to go in particular, then it counts as a special step, since I assume those two organizations communicate with each other. This is also written to make it easier for those who report jobs and not to take it as a special step in our doing business, which makes our lives worse for taxpayers. All other elements are defined in the previous article. Therefore, the tax administration, this means that it doesn't have to go physically to the tax administration, to reduce one step, nothing else. So let's move from that 59, maybe 58th, 57th place. Otherwise, there's no other intention. He can, otherwise he can write this, he doesn't have to, so he can leave, but it's important for us to write that he can log in here, so we don't count on us, or if you don't, then he writes against you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44580	The 13th Amendment was submitted by Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44581	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, honored guests, just when we're talking about a duet business list, when we're talking about a relief in which case someone starts their business tomorrow. So the one who starts his business, our proposal is, which we couldn't even talk about, but the one that 80 science doctors worked on, 300 people, is to get rid of completely for the next two to three years, the one who starts his business. So, it's a measure of how you can round someone up to do or get the courage to go on a different adventure, self-employment, for example, where you might be able to get rid of at least these taxes through your business, without any kind of flat tax or any kind of red tape, that whoever wants to work alone, that I'm creating, that he has a firm, that he has a business of his own, that he has any kind of business, is free of any kind of tax. We think it's important, because we think it's the entrepreneurial spirit that needs to be encouraged in Serbia. He's unfortunately not at an envious level today, because when people hear all the papers they have to work with, they just get scared, they're still more busy waiting in line for a government job. I therefore believe that this is one of the measures of the Democratic Party as a pre-election programme of the Democratic Party, very important and that it will contribute greatly to those who have no chance of finding a job today, because we have heard and seen that there have been no jobs for four years. Then let's let them create their own workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44582	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44583	I thank the chairman. In view of the content of the amendment itself and listening to one, we can say freely, a custodyal attitude towards those who have yet to begin, to liven up, to set up, to move into a business that will generate income and existence, all of this from a social aspect is acceptable and not controversial. But the question arises, and I keep getting caught up in it, given that we were in the coalition, so why didn't that same system solution come up five years ago, six, seven, eight years ago? Why did we not have a solution to care for social categories at the time? Which is why we didn't have a solution that involves taking care of those who start businesses, set up operations, set up anything, which means entrepreneurial activity? What changed compared to what was five or six years ago? What kind of metamorphosis has come today that we now have such an urgent need to take care of some social status or to give benefits to those to whom we could have given these benefits far earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44584	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44585	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow SPS colleague, who was just saying this, is absolutely right, but he may remember. It was such a provision in the law not to pay taxes for entrepreneurs and owners, i.e. the founders of new companies, then companies with partial liability. It was in the legislation. It was written like that in the law, and now the question is, who has abolished it? One of the predecessors of the current Vujovic minister, named Bozidar Celic, former DS MP, former DS minister, former Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, so he abolished the provision. He didn't take care of entrepreneurs at the time, he didn't run new established companies. How can we trust you more in your honesty? You're just everything you've done now, you're attacking yourself, under the pretext of caring for the citizens, and while you've been in power, they've only cared for themselves, their pockets, their careers, their craftsmanship, their apartments and their painting in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44586	The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44587	We have heard a great deal of accusations from colleagues, especially on one proposal that we obviously agree on, and the only argument against this proposal by Mr Balša Bozovic is – why didn't you suggest it earlier, why didn't you do it before? He didn't even have a chance to be in the executive power, and I don't think that can be an argument not to accept good suggestions, and I think you have a chance to apply it and make it happen. As for the remarks, both night and night ago, the former finance minister, Mr. Djelic, mentioned, I will repeat that. It is obvious that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic has great confidence in a man who worked in an important company, a European company, who was partly responsible for the future privatisation process or the announced privatisation process "Telecoma". None of you here in the O.R. got that kind of trust. He got a man who showed his own knowledge and his own references. When you attack him next time, consult the Prime Minister and ask him why the occasion and "Lazard", which is why the opportunity for Mr. Djelic to participate in an important process, obviously a process that was very important for the entire Republic of Serbia, very important for this government, very important for the Prime Minister himself who has often talked about this process and agree with it this issue of trust, mistrust, reasons for attacks on some people who apparently have received this kind of knowledge and trust more than you have from your own Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44588	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44589	If I hadn't heard the previous speaker, I would have believed that "Lazard" didn't even exist until Mr. Djelic started working for "Lazard". "Lazard" was really a small, small company, totally irrelevant, and then such a mind arrived, and then there was this potential with all the aunt's couch and everything that was in aunt's couch and convertible of south yellow and he raised "Lazard". That's why "Lazard" became a world-renowned company for only a few months, only because Mr Bozidar Djelic, with so much intelligence, had so much experience in the destruction of the economy and the destruction of public finances in Serbia, managed to raise the company "Lazard". According to the previous speaker, we could see and hear that "Lazard" did not exist. It was a totally irrelevant company until such minds, such as Mr. Djelic's brilliant careers, came into the company and because of Mr. Djelic's "Lazard" he got a job, in the right way, in a transparent procedure, as a privatisation adviser trying to privatise Telecom. Don't give up any more lies, don't give up on other people's feathers, don't disrespect people who for years, don't tell me for decades, did raising the company "Lazard" to mean at the world level what it means. Mr Djelic's engagement, I am not going in, which is why they hired him, but they have a high risk of going through public finances in the Republic of Serbia when led by Mr Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44590	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic, the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44591	Thank you. A member of 107 who commits us first to safeguard the dignity of the congregation, and in the second, he obliges us to speak politely about other persons and other persons, whether they are in the Assembly Hall or they are talking about their private or life outside of this room. It is unacceptable to consider freedom of speech slander and ugly expressions close to verbal violence, not only now when it comes to Mr Djelic, we often hear about people like Miodrag Kostic or Ivica Todorovic. When such a type of verbal violence is used for the president of the DS, political folklore has used it to be polite. It is not and will never be polite, but understanding that this is considered a form of political struggle here, understanding that this is the result of ignorance, communication within the Assembly, and that is not what we are looking for to advertise the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. To tell lies and slanders about persons and people who are not in the O.R., to bring them into the matter only to defile them, and to slander them is inadmissible. That doesn't just seem to hurt those people. It seems a shame to all of us and to those who look at us, we don't look like people worthy of saying on their behalf we're defending their voice here. Please don't make it seem any more, to focus on the president of the DS and all the slanders you have here, now and for us, and all the other people to leave out of this room and out of verbal violence, and for the sake of using this house that we all work for together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44592	Do you want to vote? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44593	Thank you, Madam President. It is a very similar amendment, such as Mr Bozovic's amendment. Since we haven't heard, as Mr. Ciric said, no argument against, besides that – why didn't you do it before, I can say that we do it. The Autonomous province of Vojvodina does so. We have met, and when you go to wherever you are, you can see people who are only on the basis of incentives they got from the government of the AP Vojvodina for self-employment hired themselves, their whole family and getting incentives to hire other people. I personally went to Sainta, for example, to a pastry shop with a woman who, thanks to her receiving 290,000 dinars from the government of Vojvodina, opened a pie shop where she, her husband, her children and her entire family lived solely because they had received the funds. It's not true, it's not true, and on the other hand, it's not correct to talk about why someone doesn't do something. There is money for this, of course, if such ventures are not taken as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking over, so at this session alone, we will now take over 200m euros in debts from the Public Enterprise "Serbia" and turn them into a public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which all citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay. It's not true there's no money. The money might be for that, but the question is, what do you want to give the money for? Only at the end of the remarks, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ask Mr Babic to pay attention to the rules of transcription in Serbian. A lot of parliament is being ridiculed by his, as I would say, mistakes he calls the laps, and it's getting more obvious that it's ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44594	Now, consult with your colleagues a little bit. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44595	Every lapus and every mistake of mine could entertain someone in Serbia, but no one to harm, and every lapus of yours couldn't entertain anyone but you, and it damaged many. Well, that's how families of children with developmental disorders are damaged, and that's only for a million and 200,000 euros. That's how much your lapus costs. Well, your lapus cost one Tesla Bank, so your lapus costs, and here I am being warned by my colleagues and thank them, it's not a lapus, it's intent. So, how much do your intentions cost for "Vojvodine Development Bank"? Well, how much do your intentions around the Capital Investment Fund cost, so how much do they cost all your mistakes? Can he draw a line? And can these mistakes be made for all the citizens of Vojvodina and for all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and so pleasant and pleasant for your continent, for your pocket, for your accounts? (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: I will now get the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44596	Let me give you some time. MP Zoran Babic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44597	I am pleased, Madam President, that the amendment promoter has shown here, that is, how the money from the AP Vojvodina budget is spent properly, so I would like him to explain one thing to me, you, Mrs Gojkovic. I informed myself here at my colleagues living in the AP Vojvodina, so they told me what it means. Well, you know, when you look at the budget, or the budget rebalance of the AP Vojvodina, I've seen 1.9 million dinars for the shading. Well, a million dinars to promote a brother-in-law in Romania. Well, 250 grand for jillkos from Pancheva. Well, all three million and 902,000 dinars. Well, that's not enough. Well, we have youth clubs. That's when DS, what's left of DS, which I see having a good time, tells its younger one, if there is and how many – e, now form youth clubs. Now these are DS clubs that are called youth clubs, so for these youth clubs, let's say in Žitište, only the last rebalancing is sent 60,000 dinars. New Vienna has 300,000 dinars, then 205,000 dinars to Morovic, then in Odzacs, 380 thousand dinars, etc. That way, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen the MPs have the money of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina for the promotion of the Shore, to promote youth clubs of the DS. In this way, it prepares for elections that will boycott the prospect, because it cannot face the fact that citizens in Serbia, that the people of Vojvodina will not now and never in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44598	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44599	He's getting in the way of boasting. I didn't notice you giving me your word. All I'm asking is Mr. Babic, just because he doesn't know something doesn't mean it's not common knowledge. In fact, when a small man thinks about it, there are a lot of things Mr. Babic doesn't know, and the other citizens of the Republic of Serbia know. When it comes to the "Banatical Shores", it is a event that has been declared a manifestation of exceptional importance for the preservation of tradition and immaterial culture. Contact Mr. Udovic, who was on the board a few days ago, explaining the proposal for a law on sports, precisely the program you are now making fun of here, assessed as extremely significant, extremely positive and extremely useful for the preservation of traditional sports. Just because you're making fun of something doesn't mean something's wrong. It has to do with Pupina, he's from Idvor, where he came from. I really can't believe that you're so easily criticizing things, just because they're not familiar to you and just because you don't know. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: What does Pupin have to do with it.) I see you don't know, I won't explain it to you now anyway. If we go to explain everything you don't know, this session will take ten days and nights, and no one has time for that, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44600	Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44601	I confess, Mrs. Gojkovic, I don't know. I don't know how to steal as Democrats, I don't know how to kidnap as Democrats, I don't know how to take money from the budget as Democrats, I don't know how to privatise as Democrats, I don't know how to destroy as Democrats, and I don't know that it's probably all what the Democrats know that it's gonna take not ten days but a lot more to explain to me, but I don't want to know. These skills, these skills of kidnapping even of children with special needs, distracted development I don't want to know. Let them be informed and let the competent judicial authorities do so. I have no authority to work on it. But I believe that there are people in Serbia who are eager to examine all things in Serbia, to perform themselves for a cleanup, and they will do so, but as far as thieving, stealing, kidnapping, taking, here I confess that I am minor to you and your knowledge from Pajtic, Elezovic, Jesic, all of these prominent Democrats who have been able to do for themselves, but only to the citizens could not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44602	Thank you. (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Replica, mentioned DS, thiefic, DS people. ) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44604	Madam Chairman, I think it is clear to the public in Serbia that the moment Mrs. Jerkov caught her colleague in so much ignorance of the most basic things and in the laps that seem uncomfortable to all of us, I do not cheer for it, nor enjoy it. I'm a little embarrassed about all that. I also urge you to direct this debate and step out of this cycle to allow both the Minister and his associates to discuss the subject and the amendments. We have a very long and difficult night ahead of us, obviously a large number of amendments ahead of us, and once again, here's an apology from the minister for what we hear from the bench across from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44605	Thank you. I'll give Zoran Babic one more word and we'll proceed with the amendments. And now you've been hitting under the belt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44606	I'd like to invite this all-knowing representative of the authorized DS to tell us, and when was the last time he took part in the shorts? I guess he also knows how to do it when he can say he's rude, illiterate because he's never done anything like that before. When was the last time you took part in shorts? Do you know the rules? Explain the rules to us when you can. Except you connect the shorts to Pupina. Only because it's the same place Idvor, which is also knowledge. It's okay, but tell us the rules of the show. You introduced yourself here to know everything, to know everything, to tell us the rules, and when was the last time you did something like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44607	Thank you. No more replicas, really. I know all about that game. Really no, it's my right to say no. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and together by Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and together Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted to the 17th amendment. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44608	Thank you. Just tell me, now that you've read a few quick, is that a member who's changing Article 65?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44609	Article 17 shall also be deleted in Article 63(3) and (4).
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44610	Okay, then I didn't realize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44611	Okay. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and together Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44612	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, I want to protest here first of all for reasons for not accepting the amendment. Here, in this summary explanation, it is said that it is not accepted for reasons of non-acceptability which are mentioned in the reasons for not accepting the amendments submitted by other MPs. They've submitted to delete the 18th of this law, and we've submitted to change the rate of tax from 15 to 10. So it's not our legal-technical editorial, it's our fundamental change compared to what the promoter proposed with his change. So, you wanted to keep this rate of income from capital, to be 15%, and you deleted this part that speaks of income, that is, the rate of immobility. This rate increased by the end of 2012 from 10 to 15%. One of the things that is taxed now at a higher rate than 15% is the interest that citizens, i.e. the income from interest that citizens have on their foreign exchange stakes. These interest rates are falling due to the world financial market situation, and our country continues to retain this high percentage of 15%. We felt that the state should be reduced, first of all, in view of the revenues that citizens have on interest on the hand-to-hand savings stakes in foreign exchanges held in banks in Serbia. We think it would help the citizens at this time when the state is making it difficult for them in every way possible to live by increasing excise duties, the price of electricity, by imposing again TV subscriptions and similar things, to help them at least a little bit, and that's why we suggested this change. She's not in the ranks of what other colleagues have suggested, and I'm sorry that this is the way that she's pampering with our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44613	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44614	For the sake of our viewers just to point out that the income from interest on deposits in dinars and the purchase of government bonds that are in dinars is not paid tax. So this is just to equalize those two rates and that's why we leave 15% here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44615	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and together by Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44616	Thank you, Madam President. This article reads as follows: In Article 65, point 2 of the word "Autonomna" is replaced by the word "autonomous". Here are the big reforms and the big system changes in the law. So the big letter is replaced by a little letter. We think it's some kind of change of law. Among other things, our proposal to delete this article, that it has no place here in the law, is the justice of legal and technical precision. Legal-technical editorial of the text, even though it has been told to us here many times when we have proposed amendments to some kind of lecturing intervention in the text, so these amendments have been rejected for reasons that this should not be a bill, but will later be arranged through a legal-technical editorial. We see again that we here have different arches for amendments that come from the opposition, because when we suggest such a thing, then it doesn't count as a valid amendment, and when the Government proposes such a thing, it counts as a valid amendment to the law. So it's just not clear how you're going to treat lecturing interventions in the text now, and I'm asking you to tell us, because when we suggest it, then it's rejected, and when the Government of the Republic proposes it, it's quite legitimate. Perhaps you, Mr. Vujovic, are not the best address for this question, but somehow transfer or consult, agree, and tell us that we know how to do the same. I can't have one rule that applies to us, and all the other rules for you. But as you do, we are obviously simply in the same situation as the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44617	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44618	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what has been written so far in law is being taught in elementary school. It just shows, since the corrected word was created during the government of the former regime, how written they were and what laws they wrote to us. We even have to fix it with them. That's the problem. Everything we do in Serbia, we cannot do normally, but we must correct their mistakes. This is the slightest mistake they've made. The biggest mistake is one incompetent government that has criminalised Serbia, and we have found it completely corrupt and now you are surprised that these texts were in the laws they have proposed. It seems to me, when I look at everything you've done so far, that this is the slightest mistake, but here we are correcting your least mistakes. I'm not going to say anything about the big one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44619	Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted together to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 20th amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44620	Thank you. Our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment suggesting that in Article 65a in Article 2, the legislator defines that it is taxing part of the rent income in which the obligations and services to which the tenant is committed are included, other than the costs incurred during the lease, which depend on the volume of the tenant's consumption. We don't think this defined income is well defined. In fact, the costs incurred during the lease also include bills for certain utility services, whose heights do not depend at all on the volume of the purchaser's consumption. For example, central heating bills in Belgrade set the price per square metre, then fixed phone bills according to a subscription that is the same for the month, plus consumption and subscription for RTS, for example, as well as other costs. In addition, it is possible to generate certain extraordinary costs which, according to general rules, fall on the tenants, because they themselves were caused by them. Like, for example, it happens to break a window, to get dirty or damaged the wall, so it has to move, and it's because of incorrect use to spoil home appliances, etc. We believe that such costs must not enter the basis for the tax on real estate income, nor should they be taxed on the burden of the tenant. Our amendment has been rejected by calling for an explanation for other amendments that are quite different and says – the amendment is not accepted, as Article 20 does. The bill regulates the immovable income tax, re-adjust the legal provisions governing the taxation of real estate income, given that this type of income will no longer be part of the investment relating to capital revenue. I'm sorry, but this kind of explanation is an insult to our intelligence. If we hadn't read it, and if we hadn't seen that immovable income tax is now a special head, we wouldn't even be able to write amendments, and once again I point out that we don't think these costs should be entered into the base for the calculation of real estate income tax. Because I have to remind myself that we have a large number of citizens who are forced to issue immovable property because they don't have another source of income or because they don't have enough income to live on and are already paying the property tax for that immovable property that has been enormously increased in recent years, so we would have to be able to account for when this tax counts what goes into that tax and what doesn't. The first state does not have a savestan relationship, a relationship with its immovable property and has no record of its ownership, no record of what was issued in the lease, issued without competition, issued by the leases that have been established beyond all criteria. I am in favour of introducing order, but we can't start with small cobwebs, sharpen their laws and carry out their first most difficult measures. The state must first put order into its business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44621	The 20th amendment was submitted by Branko Karavidic. You want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44622	Thank you, President. Our amendment refers to Article 65v. Otherwise, it refers to the determination of the tax base, and in the part of the tax on real estate income. We're except for these four members who've already added four more, all in order to specify a way of determining the tax base for this type of income. And we added item 5, which actually says that gross income is determined on the basis of a real estate lease agreement. Article 6 says - if the declared real estate income is less than that which could be achieved on the market, the competent tax authority will determine the real estate income at the level of the revenues that can be achieved on the market. Item 7. – revenue from fixed assets in the form of a lease received for years at a time when the income is determined shall be divided at the request of the obligor, on as many equal parts as the number of years, for which the lease is paid, and not more than five. And the 8th point says – in the case referred to in paragraph 7 of this article, in each year a proportional portion of the income is taxed. Once again, the aim of this amendment is to specify the way in which the tax base is determined, as well as to regulate cases when a lease is received in advance for many years. We believe that the solution to which the taxpayer is allowed in the event of a one-time payment of a multi-year lease payment of war taxes will contribute to a better tax charge and will reduce the number of cases of cover-up of income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44623	On Article 20 of the amendment with the correction, Milan Petrovic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44624	In fact, Article 20 considers that the tax on real estate income should be around 10%. In view of the fact that here, above all, the revenue from the issue of immovableity which is currently the majority of the subjects is not reported, we think it would be appropriate to reduce that high rate provided for by the 20% law to 10% because we don't think we should stimulate people not to register, but rather the opposite. And for those who don't report it, we think we should make up some sanctions that we should bear for not reporting taxes. I think it's best if the tax rate is lower so that citizens can report all these incomes as a tax base on the perspective later to think about correcting this tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44625	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and together by Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Djorović and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Đorović and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44626	Article 22, except for the corrections relating to the proper writing of the word "autonomous" in the provinces, there is no Vojvodina, it is a legal regulation, because we have two provinces. Two attitudes are added, and these two attitudes are problematic for the reasons why I have the objection of members of the law, which is interpretation, vague writing, extended sentences, inserted sentences, and which then interpret all the rights to treat the parties to which this member should apply. So it's about the right to tax exemption in the sale of rights. The position to be added – The right to tax exemption in the sale of the right, i.e. the share referred to in Article 1(5), in the case where during the ownership period there was a change in the percentage of the right, i.e. the participation in capital, can be achieved in relation to the percentage part of the right, i.e. part of the share on which it had an uninterrupted basis for at least ten years of participation in capital at a percentage equal to the percentage that was initially acquired at least ten years prior to the sale of the share. Since it is about selling rights, it would be good to have an unambiguous explanation for Peter Petrovic who seeks tax exemption in selling a real book, music, whatever you want, what happens to him during the application of this attitude. The second position states – the right to tax exemption in the sale of the right, i.e. the share referred to in Article 1(5), in the case where during the ownership period there was a change in the nominal value of the right, i.e. the role can be achieved in relation to the part of the right, i.e. the share corresponding to the amount, i.e. the role paid at least ten years before the sale of the right, i.e. the share. If you will always return the exemption to the amount or share ten years ago, then all of this is unnecessary. If we don't, it's unclear. It would be good to pay attention when writing regulations that we don't have such members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44627	The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't recognize so much inconsistency as my colleague, I think the matter is relatively clear. If in those ten years you have 10% of the capital and then you can secure 15, then 20, then 30, and then you fall to 10% again, so as minimally as in those ten years you've had, that's those, let's say 10% to that you have the right to be released and that's the thing completely clear. Just because you used to have 15% or 20% doesn't matter anymore. This applies to both the first and second points of view. So this amendment is not unclear to me, and I don't think it's even written in a dictionary that can't be fully understood and corresponds to the proposal that the tax burden be excluded from all that was and all those tax revenues and rights that, over a period of ten years, had taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44629	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and together by Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On the 24th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, Green Serbia -- submitted together to the 24th amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44630	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to Article 24(1) which is amended and read, thereby intervening with Article 83(4). In this regard, Article 83(4) states: “The tax on gambling winnings is not paid on the individual winnings of St. 1st and 2nd of this member up to the amount of 11,000 dinars, the winnings of gambling that are held in toys, casinos and automatics.” We have suggested that this attitude be restructured and that it reads: “The tax on gambling gains is not paid on the individual winnings of Article 1 and 2 of this article and on games held in toys, casinos and automatics, up to an amount of 11,000 dinars.” We have proposed, by the proposed amendment, that the existing point 2 be deleted in Article 83(4). The law on income tax for citizens, which stipulates that gambling gains held in toys, casinos and automatics are not paid at all by taxes on gambling gains. We think these gains should also be covered by the general rules of taxation of gambling. The amendment has been rejected and is called for in the explanation for the refusal of amendments submitted by colleagues to the same member, and their amendment is quite different from ours and says - the amendment is not accepted because the legal provision is carried out as a legal technical provision. I think this is indeed a demeaning by the ministry and the government to explain the refusal of our amendments. We have delivered amendments in our best interest to, in our understanding, affect the improvement of the text of the law. Such a relationship and an explanation of why amendments are not accepted really makes no sense, because it totally demeans MPs who are trying to write amendments and to study the bill's proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44631	Thank you. On the 24th Amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44632	Article 25 of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax changes Article 84 to three positions in total, and the subject of the amendments is the revenues of athletes. The first point is said: "Athletes of athletes and sports experts include receipts made by professional athletes, amateur athletes, sports experts and sports experts, from sports organisations, sports associations and alliances, which do not have the character of profit in terms of the rules governing sport. “ I understand what was wanted, to say that sports organisations, sports societies and alliances have the right to some profits, i.e. to pay sports experts, professional athletes and amateurs. That means it, but that's not what it says. Since I know the Sports Act, that's why I know that's not what it says. This is what it says is that both sports organisations and sports societies have some character to earn in terms of the rules that determine their sport. They don't have it, but they have individuals who pay for it. Well, good. I hope others consult the Sport Act when they determine taxes, taxing a part of the athletes. So, the incomes of Article 1 of this article are considered non-profits that they receive from sports companies and organizations, which are: fees on contract conclusion, which is also the subject of the Sport Act, for, say, doctors, fees and all others; fees for using the character of athletes, that is, the theme of the Sport Act, but also other laws, special contracts that characterise advertising; financial assistance to top-notch athletes with special merits, and that is clear to say that the difference in financial aid to top athletes from scholarships can be made to top athletes for sports training; money and other fees, they are one-off, but it doesn't say it in law, I know because I'm reading the Sport Act, and financial assistance can be several months, i.e.... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44633	Time, you've wasted group time. Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 25. Minister, I need you to make a statement. Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44634	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44635	Thank you. The 25th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. On Article 25 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The 26th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44636	Article 26 amends Article 85, which defines in paragraph 1, what is left of the income within the meaning of this Act and other incomes of a non-taxable natural person, on the other hand in accordance with these laws and, in particular, with income under the contract of work, complaints on the basis of a contract on the performance of temporary and occasional transactions concluded through a youth and student cooperative, with a person up to 26 years of life, if he is to attend schooling in institutions of secondary, higher or higher education, revenues based on supplementary work, trade representation, and the receipt of members of the body of a legal person's body, compensation to Members and committees, compensation for the execution of civil protection and protection tasks against elemental accidents, etc. What's now a set of exceptions, other incomes, which are not taxed on a second basis, are now placed on this article to be taxed. It seems to me that there are several points here, incomes that are taxed on a second basis, and that the first position of article 85 should be checked because I understand the intention, we want to classify all types of income and that every type of income is known for taxation, even if the rate is zero. That's perfectly clear to me, but in attitude one, that's not what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44637	On Article 26 of the amendment, Balsa Bozovic submitted. The 26th Amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The 27th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vuckovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44638	Article 27 amending Article 87 of the Basic Law sets out the annual income tax of citizens and is now defined as the annual income tax paid by natural persons, who in the calendar year made their income, greater than the triple amount, the average annual earnings per employee paid in the Republic, in the year for which the tax is determined, according to the data of the Republic Authority, responsible for statistics affairs. And of course, then he's sorting out who all the faces that can ever be in a position to be taxpayers. Three times the average annual earnings, I will be forgiven, circled, to 40,000 a month, and multiply, or 400 euros, and multiply 400 euros by 12 months and three times that. National MPs and ministers do not have a triple average, no triple average earnings. What are those faces that will have triple or average, other than IT that otherwise have a different shape? I am not asking for amendments to this law, I am asking for a completely different approach in determining the amount of income tax for citizens and when it comes to what is not the subject of this law paid by the employer, but when it comes to the tax to be paid by people who earn so much on an annual basis that the state says – you have enough for yourself and for your needs, you should pay a tax. It's a very small number of faces that have triple averages per month. No one's smart, you've set three, I repeat, I want it deleted, because I want a completely different approach in determining.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44639	Thank you. Here you go, Minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44640	I just wanted to add that this rule hasn't changed here for years, and it's true that a relatively small number of people make it, that is, enters and crosses the tax rate on the annual income of citizens, but if you look at a list of one to eight total incomes. Who goes in there? This is where the income from renting an apartment, from copyright, from all these things you have here, about 20,000 people in Serbia cross that censorship and pay taxes. Therefore, it is not too significant in terms of fiscal income, but a significant number of people, i.e. a negligible number of people, cross that censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44641	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 27th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 28 of the amendment, with corrections, in the same text, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and together Natasa Vukković, Gordana Comić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 28th Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44643	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, I've contacted Mr. Becic, not because I think you've violated him personally, but the Third-Day Assembly has no direct transmission required by the Public Service, as I understand it. There is no public transmission, there is no direct transmission from two minutes ago, and we continue without any explanation, as MPs, ask on behalf of all MPs, and on behalf of you in the end, the Serbian Parliament to ask RTS only for an explanation. There, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44644	Mr. Bozovic, we're going to, here, I'm going to have the deputy secretary deliver it to us, if there's been an explanation delivered. If there's no direct transmission, the transmission will be delayed, but we'll provide information to delay the transmission of the current session. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, together by Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, together by Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, together with Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic, submitted to the 33rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, together with Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic, submitted to the 34th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov was submitted to the 35th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic and Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinović submitted to the 36th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th amendment were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 37th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov was submitted to the 38th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 39th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 39th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 39th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The MPs Natasa Vuckovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, with correction, were submitted in the same text by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44645	Thank you. Article 41, which is an irrevocable member, where laws are defined in the right position which do not apply or which are in force by independent members, has a second position in which it states that an employer who develops a working relationship with newly employed persons from 1 January 2016 can be defined as using the tax relief provided for in Article 7 or in Article 8. That's what the debate was about, it's about tax returns and it's probably left behind so the employer can choose what's more favourable for him, that's understood. We would like it to be more clearly written, as well as other provisions, which of these two opportunities to recover taxes from newly employed people more favourable to the new employee, but we hope that this will happen anyway under the Labour Act, if not the second, although there are provisions wide enough to interpret, to leave and increase the legal security space for the employees. We would also like employers not to have such a solution in front of them, but to be exempt from taxes for newly employed persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44646	Thank you. The 41st Amendment, with the correction, was submitted in the same text by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44647	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is as the ministers have said in several cases, another stimulation for those who can hardly find a job, so for the unemployed and in this way we have tax relief in terms of tax returns. What we've been understood several times today is that it's been time for us to talk about this law the way it suits us. Here, Mr. Sertic is present today, he has just entered the hall, which I am very pleased with, do you, Mr. Sertić, for example, agree with the DS programme, the pre-election programme, that every young man who finishes a higher, higher, master's or doctoral studies, will the state pay the average salary to the Republic, taxes and contributions, release the employer for a year? In that year, the employer can't fire those workers he had in his company and his company until then. After a year, if he extends the contract for another period, taxes and contributions have been released that the state also assumes on itself. If the contract is not extended, the young man has a year's work experience and he continues to fight on the labour market, but certainly has something called hope of staying in Serbia and looking for his place under the sun somewhere. I would ask you, at least for a comment, if that's not possible right now, can we at least open that kind of dialogue, since we have 55% of the youth who are unemployed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44648	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44649	No matter what I joined now, honourable MPs, I know what the subject is, and we were very pleased when we participated with the Ministry of Finance in creating this platform. What's good, where I think we're getting along completely at this point, what you're saying is exactly the same way that it's suggested, whether it's one way or another. I think you're nice at the end, at the end of the line, and you asked, or you suggested we sit down and talk about all the models that we can influence our young people to stay, and on the other hand, how to provide them with more practice. We have a problem here, and you know how many times we've talked about our education and our education system, how many of us, not just kids who graduate from high school, don't know how to work, after art school, but also those who finish high school schools don't have enough practice and don't have enough knowledge to continue some more serious jobs. When you look at Germany, for example. or those developed countries, then you can see how young people are up to 30 years old already in management positions. They have somehow been given the right, i.e. they have obviously enough knowledge, and therefore we have announced for the next year serious changes, above all, in the sphere of education, to directly affect the economy. I can't comment on the direct idea of your proposal, because we need to do a calculation of how fiscally it would affect, but I'm very happy to talk about the same things, so that's the fight in that direction. This is a sustainable model at this point that the government has proposed and we have calculated that this can be fiscally neutral to us, with October 31st, when it's cut, it can't be manipulated. You know what our problem is? We could correct and improve many laws, but we have a problem with the application of these laws, that is, the habit of our people looking for holes in the law, so-called, and that they are trying to abuse. You know that, you've had problems, and you've been writing laws today when we're thinking about it. You always have to make the law by reducing the possibility of abuse. It's just that our habits are like that. I am certainly open, and I suppose Minister Vujovic will also sit down and find a common model in the future. It wouldn't be the first time we've voted for something together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44650	Thank you. The 42nd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44651	Thank you. In each of these laws amendments and identical text of the last member of the amendment and addition of the law. Article 42 of the proposed amendments to the Law on Income Taxation reads – this law enters into force on 1 January 2016. To do so, today would have to be a vote on the law, as the constitution says the law enters eight days after its publication in "The Official Messenger". Since it is obvious that we will not vote, I have already debated every member in the same text, which was written, in every draft law, which is before us today, said that this is proof of our common lack of planning, because the proposer obviously intended the draft law to be in the procedure and to be adopted significantly before 1 January 2016, if a member of this written met the condition of the Constitution. Since we have common damage from lack of planning, it's not a matter of government, or opposition, it's not even a matter of ideology, it's a matter of narrative of our society, like when you say – when you answer, he says – in the afternoon. When's the afternoon? When are we gonna do this? These days. When do we finish the proposal? Since Sunday. When you listen to that language, then you understand what our problem is and the direct consequence of such a view of the world is that the promoter puts - this law stands, because we are far enough from January 1st, it will pass. There will have to be an amendment to this article and it will have to be the Parliament's decisions to come into force eight days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44652	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 59th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on APPROVAL FOR OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL CERTIFICATES You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received the Report of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinović and the National MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the amendment. Thank you. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. Thank you. The MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinović and the National MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44653	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and fellow citizens, I am sorry that the finance minister is not here, but I hope Minister Sertic will be able to answer these questions and suggestions. So, these amendments to the law are a follow-up to a law that has been discussed here until recently and refers to stimulating measures in first-time employment and reducing contributions. We talked earlier about profit tax and first-time employment cuts, and here we are talking about reducing the contribution to first-time employment. The law states that the employer has the right to recover paid contributions from Article 1 item 65% if he builds a working relationship with at least one, and not more than nine new employees, 70% if he has established a relationship between 10 and 99 new employees and 75% reduction in contributions if he has started with more than 100. What we have suggested is that the way these funds are recovered is different. There is no need for the employer to pay a 100% contribution to health insurance in order for the state to return 60, 65 or 70%, i.e. 75%, rather than immediately being reduced to 25, 30 and 40% of the contributions, so as to reduce administration and there is no need for the employer to finance an additional state, as it pays the other taxes. The analogy was, when this was done, that it was so better and that the law had to be respected. I'm up for it, but I'll remind the finance gentleman who suggests Mr. Sertic, so let the answers, which is why this same law on the accounting of contributions is not respected. Under Article 22 of that law, the state is obliged for 973,000 insurance companies, whose contributions are to pay the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to pay the funds calculated by taking the average earnings from last year, and 15% of these profits are taxed by 10.3%, i.e. Ten.3% of contributions are accounted for, and that's going to be 11 billion. This budget plans 668 million. I ask - why? Where 10.5 billion budget money is due for insurance companies, for which the state pays by law for health care, because of these 668 million countries treat nearly a million people with 5.5 euros, which is inadmissible. I'm asking, i.e. I propose that our amendment be accepted, so that employers are spared the full amount of payment and that they wait for funds to be refunded from the state when it makes the reckoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44654	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Mr. Sertic, you after the previous amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44655	Here I'll be very brief, what you've given out of this code that defines contributions for the unemployed, it's a completely different topic and has no direct connection to the amendment that was commented at the beginning. As for your amendment itself and the proposal not to pay taxes, that is, contributions not to pay automatically, we mathematically, when we observe, that is equal to the amount, so whether you would immediately release someone or force them to pay them back. Nothing in the state gets, except what I just said, serious control. If you pay only 25%, for example. For the number of jobs you've opened, you can in this way avoid and control, we can't hold inspectors in every company and control what they're doing. On the other hand, we still have the discipline within the company not at that level that we can have complete confidence. On the third hand, we in this way fully fiscally control the behavior of every company, every employee, can see if it's the cross-section of October 31st. So that there would be no abuse and all in terms of quality collection of contributions to the functioning of the state and all those costs that the state has. So, I understand your request. It makes sense but practically at this point when we introduce order, when we're fighting the gray economy, when we're trying to expand this fineness of all tax payments and to be rebalanced with the possibilities of citizens, this is one balanced approach that the government has accepted and as such we continue to support it to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44656	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Anticu, I'm only returning for the minister's sake to the previous amendment, so you need to do it some other time. As I said on Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44657	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable ministers and honored guests. We talked about stimulating employment measures and then we talked about taxes. This is where we talk about contributions. What's very doubtful to us, but where we see that there's one particular problem that's causing us some confusion, is that vomit of 60, 65, 75%. What exactly is this about? Why don't someone get rid of the piece immediately and why they'll further harass and bureaucratize the whole thing when we know for ourselves that the state is, in fact, the biggest one in the country and that it owes a billion or two billion euros to the private sector. And that many companies closed down for the simple reason that the state eventually failed to pay them back what was agreed on the amount of money. What's very important for us here is that this road is cut short and that something doesn't pay off, some contribution, and then the state brings you back through some vomit, that we simply try to do something that would help more people who are looking for a job rather than waiting for the state to remember, because we know very well that 50 and some private firms are in a blockade today, among other things, because the state doesn't pay their debts. There are claims to the state, surely from a billion or two billion euros. That money the state doesn't want to do, and then a lot of people close their jobs and some of their businesses, and that's how they destimulate actual employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44658	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44659	Ladies and gentlemen, in this Article 3, there is also one position of 9 that is quite clear, and I think that any doubt as to whether the state will return or not, and when it will return, removes this. Let me read – the refund of paid contributions from Item 7 which we have already talked about, means what is paid, is done in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure, the tax administration within 15 days. The law itself provides a 15-day deadline in which the state must repay what is paid from social contributions tax. Therefore, there is no reason for this much fear that the state will not return to entrepreneurs who have paid social and pension contributions, so the deadline is clear. Have a little more confidence in the state. I think this country works better and better every day and respects its deadlines that there's a law where the state has to settle its obligations towards and legal persons, so there's no reason to be nervous. This institute will be very well applied and the money that the state owes will be returned within 15 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44660	Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I signed up. Do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44661	Thank you. So we have three problems with this member whose erasure we propose. First, why is he coming back when he's known to... You can say hello to Mr. Pavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44662	I'm sorry, Miss Jerkov, but Mr. Pavicevic can't hide the enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44663	I have an understanding. So three things are controversial in this article. First, throw up because it has proved to be both in the case of maternity care and in the case of all others, that the state does not settle its obligations regularly in this area. Two, why 75%, not everything. We propose that for new employees, the employer be free of all contributions and we believe that this is not an impossible mission, that money can be found in the budget for such a thing. And what's equally problematic is who is considered an unemployed person in terms of this member, because you weren't there and I said that the Fiscal Council in its opinion in the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia, resented or as a criticism of the budget, provided that the Government of the Republic of Serbia incorrectly shows the number of employees. And you know, Mr. Sertic, that's what he's got. I happen to be in a veterinary office, and I believe there's this everywhere, where someone who's unemployed, who volunteers there, one day he didn't sign up, one day he's late to check into the Bureau and automatically deleted it from the unemployment records. Did he find a job, whether he's employed now – no, but he's no longer in the unemployment records, and he's not, according to how you set up here, he couldn't be employed and so the employer is free of the contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44664	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44665	Ladies and gentlemen, here you can see the ignorance of our general financial system. So when someone writes an amendment like this, because the right to pay a contribution is regulated by how much retirement there will be when the employee makes it. If you don't pay anything, there's nothing to come back to you. There's nothing to be your base. Like this, the employer pays the... .. I know what I'm saying, you don't know, you've never filled out that form, M2, have you ever filled out?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44666	Please, Mr. Arsic, don't talk like that. I understand you're upset with the throw, but don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44667	Mr. Becic, I'd like the DS experts to show me how to fill out the M2 pattern and I'm saying he doesn't know any. That's why they submit these amendments. That's why they don't know how to spell AP. That's why we had such power in Serbia, so we came to this, not to make laws in terms of improving the climate, but to correct their mistakes and now they find themselves sinful, so much so that they accuse us of not knowing what we're doing. We've seen your results.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44668	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, for the viewer's sake, we're not talking about pension contributions, we're talking about social security contributions. That's two different contributions. If you know, one was 12.3 and the other was 24 comas something, so we decided...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44670	Mr. Bradic, don't speak to Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44671	No, I'm looking at my colleagues. They're voting, I'm just plowing. So we're talking about social security contributions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44672	So talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44673	We have suggested that the reduction be made from the entrepreneurs and that he should pay the reduced amount. Yeah, he's right. He's a colleague who says the law says he's bound to throw up in 15 days. Let him give me ten examples of where it happened in 15 days, and I'll make one hundred examples that no tax administration, when the payments are contributions to health insurance, can put it on its website within a week that the contributions are paid, because they don't have enough labour to process it. Well then, the insurance companies are in the yellow zone, but not to strangle my colleagues here right now, because it's a narrow professional professional professional thing, that you can't see from the RFZO that someone's reconciled the contributions, so you have to send it, that it takes confirmation that it's a paid contribution, etc., but it's not a topic. The theme is how to facilitate entrepreneurs who employ people and who have the right to stimulating measures, according to this member of the law, how not to harass them, not to have to engage them and wait for them in vomiting, but to be able to pay as much as the state has prescribed to pay each employee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44674	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44675	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and respected guests, dear colleagues, our proposal is not to pass this law. I don't think some people today have been very good at commenting on what our basic intentions really were. So there are stimulating employment measures. And when it comes to social security, not pension insurance, I'm talking to the O.R., it's very important that we simplify the whole process. You've explained that very well earlier, Mr. Minister, because I think it's very important that in situations where we want to make a certain result and when we have a certain goal, we have to put everything into that function right now and measure the result in six months, one year, one year and a half days. It's about people looking for work. It's about people who just want to spend their lifetime doing something useful for themselves and their family. For that reason, I think that this should not be like one of the measures that will be on paper, but to see if we really can and have the strength and capacity at the end as a state to do it in the work. I think that for this reason, this proposal that came from our side, in terms of conversations and debates, of course, and not in particular in this amendment, which reads: "is deleted", that something really is done that can be measured in a short period of time. So that it may not be, they ask for a job from two to five or six years old. You yourself know how this affects the family and some social circulation, and then violence and all that follows unemployment in Serbia. So for this reason, I think it's very important that we have a mechanism that can regulate it in a relatively short period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44676	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the Fourth Amendment. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44677	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I have a question about this member. He says – an employer who uses any kind of incentive for a particular person, and then he cannot achieve this right. Now, does this apply only to employers who have incentives for certain employees, or to employers who get other kinds of incentives, rather than specifically for employment? For example, the employer who gets a quarter of the New Sad budget, or the employer who gets land worth tens of millions of euros, or the employer who builds the hall, infrastructure land? So, does the one who pays the minimals after that also have the right to achieve this kind of incentive, because this is only about the employer who gets incentives for a particular person? What about employers who get other benefits, some other employers can't even dream about? If that's not there, and I don't think that's what it says, I'm afraid that this member, as well as the whole of the law, and perhaps you could have noticed from our discussions on amendments, can't be acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44678	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44679	First, I cannot catch any context between your struggle that this law and these measures that we have proposed expand to a greater number. I think this is how the agreed law right now includes the maximum number of people, not just those who are now almost finishing colleges or schools, but practically unemployed. The condition we've been talking about since six months of continuous internships, I told you why and explained about any possible fraud we might have. What you just asked earlier, I think it's very good to definitely explain ourselves. So any kind of employment incentives that a particular company gets, in any form as you've listed through different forms, if it's got that kind of incentive, it can't use this one. So here it's really an interest to first clean up this species, to make it quite clear what's the incentive. So if someone has received State aid specifically, it cannot use this kind of incentive in this way, that, in addition to what has already been obtained and subsidized by the state extends its business, to employ a larger number of workers, it can automatically use these. That member is talking about it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44680	Thank you. By someone else, I think it was just the technical minister who explained it. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I thought if you could replica, if not, then nothing.]] On the 5th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gorana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinović and the National MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44681	So in the sea of these amendments and in the sea of members of the bill, it just happens to mix up certain things somewhere. The next member is currently talking about various incentives, namely measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has undisputed to make available. But what happens now? So we don't have a specific statement in the law exactly what you just said. Do we have somewhere where it's decidently listed and written that someone can't use a few different measures at the same time? No, although I agree with you that that's not the way it's supposed to be, just to try to define it more precisely somewhere. What's also important is that in a similar way, what we talked about, a big problem is solved for young people in Serbia who have finished schools, who are educated, who, when they have a craft in their hand or some knowledge, want to go out of the country. It is important for them to make these things as simple as possible, that we can as a state give them the average salary in the Republic, taxes and contributions in a year. If after that year they extend the contract, they've managed. If they don't, they're still searching, but they have a year's work experience. For this reason, we believe and have already completed a budget that is less than 100m euros for all in Serbia who have completed higher, higher, master's and doctoral studies. So it's the core of society, the greatest knowledge in the country that has to stay in Serbia. That's our goal and our interest. Because if we don't take care of them, we don't care about the quality that must exist in order for Serbia to achieve much greater results in the coming decades than it does today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44682	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gorana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44683	I'm sorry if I misrepresented myself. Article 6, is that by effective?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44684	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44685	Transitional and final provisions. Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44686	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gorana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović and Vesna Martinovic submitted the 7th amendment together. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44687	Thank you and apologize again. It's not easy to follow, but it's my fault, it's not yours. Therefore, it is also about the entry into force of the same member who went through the previous four laws, that the law enters into force on 1 January 2016. Why am I sharing the same argument with you? Because it's important that we try to remember, because he's a member of the paradigm. When there are plans that we all miss, I don't separate the government and the opposition, the academy, the church, nobody in Serbia can plan it right. That's why we're a failure. So, then the Proposer knows when the law will come into force, when there are plans then we know a few weeks in advance. Here the other day he was a rapporteur for Serbia in the European Parliament, David McElister, who knows the date, the day of February, when he will submit the resolution. We miss it, it's a common problem, and I know that this is a member of the law for the reason that the promoter thought he had enough time. Now we have to respond to the amendments, my explanation is just to try to make a joint effort, to plan a little more, and to reduce these kinds of members in procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44688	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 60th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Republic Administration Taxes You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinović and the National MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44689	If there is even a law and an idea that I would like to vote for, then these are these amendments and additions to the Republic Administrative Tax Act for at least three reasons. First of all, this idea is one of the few ideas in our legislative process as a result of planning, as a result of a partnership relationship between civil society and the project "Baby Welcome to the World" and the state administration, i.e. the ministry and us who are getting a proposal for consideration. In Article 1, which amends and complements the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, point 9 is added, which says – For the application of the residence of the newborn child. This means that our state has decided because this kind of dialogue was ahead, to intervene by giving up residence fees, which will be less than 40 million dinars for just over 66,000 babies born in Serbia. I wish the budget was missing 140 million dinars. I very much want a deficit of 140 million dinars for this abolished tax, because that would mean twice the number of babies that would be born. It's just that as little a joke as it is, it's a real wish. Why do I use this debate on amendments and to commend the way it came and to give criticism, because we need the Law on Taxes and Refunds, and it would be good not to forget about this unique Tax and Compensation Act that will make the most of the entrepreneurs. Much more than any story, any, any one, that in this future law, we do not forget that these amendments and additions to the Tax Act have exempt us from paying for the residence of newborn babies. Parents may not feel that they are significant, but it is important that we have as a common message, that we will reduce the total incomes because we want to treat baby incentives differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44690	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44691	Thank you, above all, for supporting this member and for the law that defines the government's intention to help in this way and I agree fully with you so that we would all be happy to solve this kind of deficit both in the Ministry of Finance and in the Serbian Government. But on the law on fees, just to let you know that the task force has already been formed, that it has begun to work and that for the first time in the following year we will now have a law that will define in one place, so it will be here in parliament, in one place all fees, all fees, very transparent and clear and precisely the most intended small entrepreneurs but also those big companies that can work and that will practically have the first chance to read out of a document when they read to know what they are waiting for and in what way. So basically we understand each other in this part too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44692	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44693	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers and guests, what I wanted to say at the beginning, firstly, is to congratulate the citizens of Belgrade 20,000 babies in 2015, that is a huge result for us. I think it's very important that we understand this part and this area from the beginning to the end. This is the start of a newborn, 300 dinars is a tax, we'll cancel that tax. On the second day, baby packages are already missing. On the third day, there's no help from the foster parents. The fourth and fifth days and the sixth steps and the tenth steps are already missing some other things that once existed in Belgrade and Serbia, and not today. Well, then when we go to free textbooks, so when we go to everything that's been used somewhere by a household in Serbia, first of all, according to our children, we have to deal with these stimulations much more seriously, although of course we support this measure, but then let's move on to the next steps, because I'm glad you said it yourself, every deficit that stems from this way of taking care of birth is actually considered our victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44694	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The 2nd Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinović and the National MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44695	Thank you, Mr. Becic. After eight hours of debate on the laws that we have increased and increased the burden on families in Serbia, on various grounds of taxes, etc. Now we're finally coming up with some law that you're probably trying to tell your parents or young families that the state is taking a lot of care of them. However, it would have been much more convenient if you had found a solution for all those foster parents whom employers do not pay a contribution. All these MPs here, I think they took pictures with those moms in that action -- right for moms or bravo for moms, what happened to that? Never anything. We suggested several times, none of it was. Why, for example, I think my colleague Marko Djurisic has been proposing for a year to this Assembly, whenever the session begins to adopt a bill that will reduce taxes, for example, to baby food. That's what this congregation majority won't adopt. Mr Vujovic even assured us that it is impossible to determine what is actually baby food, he thinks there are some adults who eat food for babies, some spoons, etc., and that actually wants to damage, and we subsidize their need to eat baby food. So if you really want to show concern for young families, there are much more effective ways for them than you're going to free some 250 or 300 dinars as far as this law seems, especially considering that we spent eight hours, this morning, this day, discussing laws that increase taxes as wages and pensions fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44696	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44697	Thank you, but again I don't understand your concern in such a way because we've just introduced that VAT returns to baby equipment, to food, to all the things that people have the right to use for their children. So maybe it's not the simplest way, the easiest way, we're going back to what kind of question we have to control the processes, that we have to control it through the application of fiscal accounts, because you know the same thing, you've been struggling with it, and you know what the problem is with the gray economy, and today we have a day. And in every way possible, we have to control the situation just to secure the inflow of funds into the budget, and then after that, we can go back through the laws. I hope that we can come to this situation in the coming years that even so we solve things, simply release people in advance of certain obligations, but then we will know that we are much more as a society progressed and that there is a much wider procedure of certain things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44698	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44699	Thank you. When we talk about incentives, when we talk about reliefs, and here you mentioned a great example, it's VAT vomit on baby equipment and food. What was the most interesting thing about the debate we had months earlier is that there is often a case that does not reduce the price, although you release VAT, and someone does not reduce the price and it remains completely identical. Your intention is complete logic correct and you all know it, but in practice it happens when you release someone, they just grow the margin. So it's absolutely not about whether when you say you have a VAT refund, we can actually sort of have it as something cheaper. The prices of these products are increasing, and you have a VAT refund again in the meantime, and we think that somewhere we have to, that some mechanism to create that these young parents, these young moms and dads, or single moms, which is, of course, a growing case in Serbia, so, we have a tried-out and clear mechanism, not only to release the VAT and make a return to VAT, I know that when you pay the price then you have a tax back, but it happens to give the products expensive, by increasing the margin from the traders incessantly and endlessly and there is profit, huge and enormous and you, how can I tell you, we can't somehow introduce that order. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44700	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44701	I don't just know if we understand that VAT returns go directly to the parents who buy, so the physical person that comes, but I understand what you're talking about, but if we're defined for the market, if the state doesn't affect the prices on the market, then only by increasing the conditions, better business, more companies that enter the market and more competition in certain areas, if we're talking directly about toys, baby equipment or food, we can come to the conclusion that traders compete with each other because of the price and that we're going, because it's a simple system that we adopt, we're working on it, and I think that we all agree on that, that there can't be state interventionism to help. Is there another, third model that would prevent it, and it wouldn't be a violation of competition rules, that's a question, if you have an idea, we're all ready to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44702	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44703	I want to take down the Rules of Procedure, I've come to the phone, the Honorable Chairman. In fact, instead of Minister Vujovic, here in front of the government, or in the hall is Minister Sertic. He was not authorised to represent the government after the debate on this agenda point, and he by Article 158. Rules of Procedure item 7...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44704	Mr. Djurisic, you know very clearly that all members of the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44705	... I ask you to let me finish, give me that notice, because I couldn't find that notice, that all members of the government were authorized to participate in the debate on certain points of the agenda. I couldn't find that notice. I was looking for him in the e-parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44706	Mr. Djurisic, the government is proposing law and all members of the government are...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44707	No, I'm asking you to read the Rules of Procedure and now I'm going to read it to you. Article 158, paragraph 7, which can participate in the discussion of details, says the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular, on this basis cannot be longer than three hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44708	You're right. All members of the government are authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44709	They are not authorized, Mr. Chairman, it says here that for – a representative of the Government in the National Assembly, Dr. Dusan Vujovic is determined and only his name stands here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44710	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: So, if I am wrong, please give me notice that Mr Sertic is authorized to be a representative of the government on this agenda point. I can't find that notice in the e-parliament and the paperwork we got. If that exists, I'll apologize, but I couldn't find it. I thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Now I'm gonna ask the service to deliver the notice. We're going back to work. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44711	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 27, and I believe that he was just a colleague when he said he was -- I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, he probably meant to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and since only the President or Chairman could hurt the Rules of Procedure. What I'm trying to say is that the Public Service and the other RTS programme through which the National Assembly sessions are transferred, the Public Service and that it has its own board, its own programming advice, and that, of course, neither the board of directors nor the program board receive any orders from any party or ruling and I don't know if it's a habit from any previous time and whether it's spoken on the basis of any experience until 2012. On the other hand, because of the importance of the topics that are ahead of us and this day, and I believe they will be in the days ahead of us, I ask you to introduce a session into normal flows. The government is working as one team, as one great good and quality, an effective team. We have long listened here why there is no government to talk about, why the ministers do not come, and now that the ministers come, when Mr Sertic comes, they say – and now we do not want to talk to Mr Sertic. I know that some people in this room are not difficult, but impossible to please, and therefore, Mr. Chairman, my message is for you and don't try. I would like to introduce this session into normal flows, to discuss all the proposals of the law in detail both in this day and in the days ahead of us, and to bring laws, which both citizens and businesses expect from us, within the time limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44712	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'll take your advice. So, clearly I said, all members of the government are authorized. Secondly, all the MPs, you are witnesses in the O.R. that Mr. Sertic actively participates in the debate. It answers all the questions asked by those who explain the amendments, so I don't see what's unclear about it. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. No, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44713	Now I'm going to point to Article 273. - with the draft law or other general act or other material submitted to the National Assembly, the Government shall notify the National Assembly of its representatives and trustees for meetings of the National Assembly and its committees. So, I will once again read what it says on the bill – the government's representative in the National Assembly was appointed Dr Dusan Vujovic, finance minister, to the trustees of Nenad Mijailovic, etc., etc. There's no Mr. Sertic's name anywhere. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44714	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. As I said, the government can deliver further information at any moment and I said all members of the government were authorized. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: We cannot discuss without this document. I give you a warning, Mr. Djurishic, because you are without permission to replicate with the chairman. I give you a warning. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On the 3rd amendment in the same text, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komić, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinović and the National MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Here you go, Mrs. Comic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44715	I'll explain... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44716	Mr. Djurishic, you've been warned. I'll have to give another warning. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djurishic, you have a second warning. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you go, Mrs. Comić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44717	I think it's completely unnecessary... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44718	Please, Mr. Djurishic, allow your colleague... (Marco Djurisic, from the place: What is it? Mr. Djurishic, you're being unworthy. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "Give me your word." Mr. Djurishic, you have a third warning. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like security to remove Mr. Djurisic from the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44719	Mr. Vice President, completely unnecessary, and I understand that fatigue is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44720	Well, Mrs. Comic, if I can't continue the session...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44721	... I think you'd better take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44722	Mr. Djurisic, the word was received by Mrs. Comic, be parliamentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44723	Please give a break and consider the warnings and listen to the suggestions that are business. We understand that it's tired, and they can always withdraw their warnings, take a break, and I'll give up my two minutes. Please don't throw each other away. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44724	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Do you want a word? (No) I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44725	I'm asking you to take a break and take this unnecessary incident... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44726	The 4th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Martinović and National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. (A Vesna Rakonjac, from the place: Third warning. ) (Alexander Martinovic, from the site: Third Warning. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Marko Djurisic, from the site: Find where there is a third warning. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44727	I ask you once again to give a break before explaining the amendments, we are all tired and that based on a purely business-based proposal we do not make in vain incidents because we do not need them. The government must inform the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44728	You want the papers, everyone's been notified. They've been notified, I remember all the papers. And they were authorized, the names of six ministers were listed, and that the MP wanted a little patience, the colleague said nicely, will be delivered to you once more to make his own insight.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44729	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44730	But he doesn't have this much notice, he got a warning from me yesterday, so he doesn't have the right to speak at this session anymore. And to finish, you don't exist anymore. If you're gonna sit-sit, if you're not gonna ask me out, I know my Rules of Procedure better than you do. We're done with that story. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Did you exclude me? I really don’t want anyone to terrorize people who want to work and the session has to be run, or you make decisions or you let a circus in here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44731	I'm really asking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44732	I thank you, too. No breaks. There's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44733	There's a need.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44734	Most people are decent, they want to work, one man can't harass parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44735	Just so no one's harassing anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44736	I'm asking the MP to leave the room and let us work, that's the same thing as the Rules of Procedure. You don't exist, and I don't have time for you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Did you shut me out.) ) (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Go outside. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I can't... He can do it by his book. Don't get... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Give me that warning. You've already got three warnings, yesterday you got one. Your colleague gave you three warnings today. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It does not exist.) Don't yell. Get out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44737	You have to tell me I'm off session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44738	Go outside in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, act as...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44739	So tell me which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44740	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44741	What member, just say so?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44742	One minute. I'm asking security to allow an MP to come out alone. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. A minute, just a minute, there's no more of that now. Come out nice and MP Zivkovic came out last year and acted politely. Respect the Rules of Procedure and that's enough of your behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44743	Just did you get me out of my membership with 111, that's all I'm interested in?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44744	Go outside, you no longer exist at the session until March of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44745	I can't get out if you don't get me out of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44746	You don't exist until March of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44747	But you just say you took me away from the session, according to the Rules of Procedure. That "get out" doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44748	I can talk to whoever I want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44749	You can do it, I can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44750	Don't argue with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44751	I'm not arguing, I'm just asking you to give me a warning according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44752	It's all in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44753	No, you just have to say it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, Article 111, and I'm going out on my own.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44754	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44755	Give me a measure of distance from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44756	You don't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44757	No, you have to tell me that. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How can you say there is no man? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44758	It doesn't exist because he got four warnings...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44759	But it's your fault...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44760	His word was taken from him, and he was disfellowshipped from the session according to the Rules of Procedure... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How can you say that someone does not exist? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44761	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44762	Is this the greatest range when you don't know what to do to do something like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44763	No, you just say I'm away from the session and there's no problem. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: May I approach? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44764	You can't, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44765	Just tell me I'm away from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44766	You can't approach, don't threaten my safety. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, no... I'm afraid of this kind of behavior, I don't let it get near me. When someone gets up, waves their hands, I feel threatened. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: As a judge, in the ring. There's no man, what, you want him to evaporate? ) They object to the Administrative Committee, and that is what it is, and it is not a fight, it is not a scream, it is not a circus. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Which member can the MP not exist? Please tell me where we left off, which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44767	Just say the word, tell me the distance I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44768	I ask MPs who want to work to sit down, or I'll just read. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. He's not here. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I'll have a colleague now. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in the principle of detail...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44769	Just to hear him tell me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44770	Please don't yell, let me read the words. ... and in general. Here you go, but sign up for a word. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. () Be kind, sign up for a word, I can't give it to you without reporting, there you go. No more disrespect for the Rules of Procedure. It even says in the Rules of Procedure that we're all required when we enter the O.R. to register and insert cards. So much for respecting the Rules of Procedure. Goran Ciric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44771	I'm advertising Article 103. The MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly or of the Chairman, if he considers that he is not in conformity with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and immediately after the injury has been done. Mr. Marko Djurisic, in time, advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: He can't as his lawyer. ) Mr. Becic chaired, so you were not present in the hall, he chaired this session, and he violated the Rules of Procedure because he did not give a properly declared MP Đurisic to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This isn't the first time that this breach of the Rules of Procedure has been repeated. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You are not a lawyer. We have a high level of nervousness throughout the day, apparently on that side. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: What were you doing? Here's what we hear now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44772	I ask the MPs to be calm in the O.R., to hear what Ciric wants to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44773	None of us need to raise this tension.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44774	I don't know why you're doing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44775	I also invite you to point out to your vice president the way he runs the Assembly, because three warnings were needlessly given to an MP who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, asked for his right. The opposition's MPs signed and apparently this tonight's behaviour of Vice President Becic shows that we were right when we asked for his shift, because this is not the first time he's broadcast a relationship to the opposition MPs, where he treats us completely differently compared to the MPs of the position.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44776	Thank you. I think she's also convinced me and I was watching the broadcast, Vice President Igor Becic, having a great session. He allowed him and the MP spoke for over two minutes and three minutes and once again and continued to throw and shout in his manner. So we don't have a problem with MPs at all, we have a problem with one MP. There used to be more, in the last half of the year with one and the right of the chairman, I gave him a warning yesterday, I gave him a warning yesterday, the chairman told him about this misbehavior two more, and I took my word when I walked in and he has to leave the gym now. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: You must take me away...) Physically, I won't, no, no. Your obstruction is very transparent and we won't get into it. Do you want to vote? (Goran Ciric, from the place: Yes. We will continue to work, you from your political impotence can only create chaos here, but I will continue to chair and do my job because everything is clear here. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MP, if you're in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44777	Article 107. (Vesna Rakonjac, from the place: Which member? ) (Zoran Babić, from the place: He was confused. You want to calm this otoman down there to really...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44778	Please, colleagues, let me hear it. Just talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44779	Of course you do, but I don't mind that noise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44780	You'll be kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44781	It means 107th member, the dignity of the congregation. You're intruding him. You told the MP he didn't exist. Neither the Lord God nor the newest medicine can destroy a man with the decision of the chairmanship of the congregation. There's no reason for this session to decide on important topics, as usual, at a time when there's no transmission, we're building an atmosphere like this. The Atmosphere was not created by an MP who asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but by your Vice President and I demand that you respect the Rules of Procedure and conduct this session in a valid manner, and now we can do so by withdrawing these warnings and continuing the session in a way that is similar to this home and ending tonight, 1, 2, 3, 4, whenever you want. In this way you provoke the opposition to fight for its place in parliament in a way that is only possible, which is that we fight against will, to fight for not seeing what we do here, because there is no transmission, that we cannot get the word, that the opposite side can tell any truth, that it repeats it a thousand times a day and that... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You set the Assembly on fire. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44782	I ask the MPs not to earn it, because we care about working, not throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44783	You have a concrete proposal on my part. Rescind the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's a minister who's authorized and we can keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44784	The minister is authorized, both of them. We have several other ministers, Zorana Mihajlovic, Tasovac and all are authorized. We got the memos. I will not go back to that, and I will not withdraw the warnings and other sentences that have been imposed on Ambassador Mark Djurisic. When I make a decision, I don't withdraw my decision because someone wants to do something with violence. Thanks for the suggestion. I know your good will, it's obvious. This parliamentary group has a deputy, some deputy MP who no longer exists at this session. How can I tell you? It doesn't exist. He's been sentenced. He wants the incident to be some physical distance here, but I don't want him to participate anymore. Tell Alexander Senic to come or who's the deputy and let him change you. I'm sorry, but you caused this incident yourself. This was working until the moment you returned to the O.R. and made a mess, or an MP who no longer works until 30 working days were up. Please, you gentlemen took it last year and we're moving on. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. On behalf of the member and member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Janko Veselinović, together Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, together Gordana Čomić, Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and together MP Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Bran Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44785	To make it clear to the public of Serbia, and to the public who is denied to see what is happening in this home, the law is on the agenda, that is, two laws which are due for incompetence, asking for a good word, the arrogant leadership of "Srbigas" is at the expense of the future generations of children of this country. Nearly 220m euros were sent to us by the government to turn the Serbian debt into a public debt. This means that Serbia's public debt, and so much debt, is increasing by another 1%. How big this debt is, too big, it says 220m euros, I repeat 220m euros, only 1% of the next generation's debts are due back. The explanation of why it's done is tragic. That's completely pointless. For every firm in Serbia, you can agree on such an explanation, but only the debt of "Serbiagas" to the NIS Oil Company, according to a foreign company, is turned into a public debt by a foreign state company. It says here that it is done because "Srbigas" is in a difficult position. So what? Let him go bankrupt if he's in a difficult position, somebody buy him, somebody from Abu Dhabi, somebody from Russia. Our great friends help us with this, since there's no one here to learn to run that company for 2.5 million a month, someone who knows. I've been using five minutes. No, it says that because "Srbigas" is exposed to loans. Who isn't? It says here that these debts have been incurred since 2008. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44786	Excuse me, please get the kid out of the O.R. I love kids, but they really don't belong here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44787	Here's the kid you kicked out of the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44788	Don't be tasteless.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44789	What am I supposed to be?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44790	Untasteful. Something is a joke, and something isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44791	Don't make me answer what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44792	Kids don't belong where we fight politically.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44793	You say that due to gas, indifference and district heating systems, the debt was then said to have been established on 31 December 2014. As far as I remember, this government has been out there since half of 2012, so how come you're justifying it here with some responsibility, indifference from 2008 to 2013? You say Serbia's economy is inequitable. That's what it says in an explanation for our amendment's refusal. How invulnerable? We're ashamed of how good we are. We have a growth that has to slou mousse to broadcast to see how fast it grows. Everything's awesome. We took a picture today with the train model. Today, a high-speed track is being built at a rate of one and a half feet in Novi Sad. Everything's perfect. How come the economy isn't liquid, Mr. Minister Vujovic? You can't give such an explanation. It's not about the Prime Minister's exposé, or what we hear every day on this TV that doesn't broadcast today's session. So either the economy is collapsing, which is true, but that's no reason for "Srbigas" to be on the burden of future generations, or for economy to be okay, so how can "Srbigas" be indivisible? A new 20m-dollar loan is being taken to the insolvent "Serbiggs", which will again be guaranteed by future generations and reportedly build a pipeline to Tutin. Is it like "South Stream" or like this fast track? What fast track? The one from the '90s or the one from 2016? What's the explanation for that? Why is it done without public light, without cameras? Why are you doing this today? Why was a contract signed with the bank for the new 20 million? Why hasn't the congregation been asked before? Why isn't the Serbian public asked - do we want to finance it or not? No, it's 17, quick, take the loan, give the Russians everything you can give. Those 200 million and something Serbia and "Srbigas" could earn from the mining rent, that the mining rent is near the one that Gazprom pays in Russia. No, we give free, we give all the free, and then we owe it to the Russians. What logic is that? What college does that teach? On what advice from the World Bank, the IMF and Tarabic are doing so? Why don't we raise the mine and settle this debt? Why don't we once give valid information about what our economy is? Billions, hundreds of billions, everything goes great, we can't wait for all the investors, they're waiting in line, the office for quick answers, everything will be and then what? That kid over there who got into the O.R. will be paying for the rest of his life to the NIS, who owns the Russian Federation, over 50%, the debts made by the incompetent staff of this coalition, and that's all right. It's all right. There's no warning, let alone some more severe punishments. I would really like someone who writes the texts of these laws, explanations for amendments, to think about themselves a little bit and look in the mirror when it says it and say it – this makes sense, does something like this make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44794	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44795	I, despite my best intentions to understand constructively your discussion, am unable to bring these elements together into one continent. So this is how old debts came to be, these debts, in the period from 2008. In 2012, they weren't paid in 2013, 2014 because NIS didn't push us and we had a very bad fiscal situation. We were waiting for the first chance last year, remember that space that got free we used to pay the emergency bills of smaller proportions, the residual electricity, the phones and the payments in the agriculture that you attacked us for not to execute. We paid for it last year, and we didn't want to go beyond the 6.6% limit, so we stayed at the general state level, less at the central state level. This year we said and put into the budget last year these 20 million that you're talking about under extremely favourable conditions for investment, not liquidity. A debt of 23.4 billion was created due to the indivisibility of the economy, the inability to "Srbigas" realise the collection of these claims and social, political and all kinds of pressures that even the fund agrees to try to charge in the period 2008, while the economy has been going through a crisis until the current solution to this situation, caused inconspicuous consequences at the level of the locals, especially remote heating, especially heating of schools and other institutions and what we all know very well about the large enterprises that have been waiting to be restructured. Therefore, they still spent gas, and they were not in a position to pay for the restrictions we know ourselves. Don't name the numbers, they could call us "State State" afterwards. You have the right to a replica, that's reality. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44796	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Is this some kind of deal to yell at or what? Yeah, I see you in the system, but there's no need for you to yell, to take a breath and give me a replica. And to explain to the MPs who received the sentence of Article 111 not to take up my space here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44797	Thank you. By what logic does the economic debt of "Serbigas" towards NIS have to pay a million and a half people in Serbia who live in villages and gas have not seen, except on TV, when the work of the South Stream is launched? Why are farmers paying for it? Why do these gasses pay for people who don't heat themselves, cook themselves, or bathe on any machine that consumes gas? Is that solidarity? No, it's not solidarity. It's a kidnapping. How did Serbia get warm 15 years ago when there was no gas? How was Serbia warmed up in the '90s when we were under sanctions? I was the mayor of one city, there was no gas. Is that heated? The heat is natural, under the bombs it's heated. Under the bombs. And now you're putting it to me as a top-notch thing, so these Russians were good enough to put up with us for two, three years. Don't let them defend us anymore, don't let them feed us anymore. So there's no excuse for that for people who have nothing to do with gas to pay for someone else's irresponsibility, I choose very, very, very gentle words. How are you going to explain that? How are you going to explain it to people who live in villages, this kid who was just here, how because of someone's bad business under quotes, you're going to burden his future and the future of millions of people who are not in any way guilty of what happened, for all these debts. Are these the only debts of the state? Why do we have to pay those debts now? We have other debts, aren't they priorities? No, they're not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44798	Time's up. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Marinkovic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44799	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS and Green Serbia have tabled an amendment to the name of Article 1 and Article 1 and it reads - it is deleted. This is why we would all be visible and we could understand that existence is not a matter of one's fiction, but of real life, of the debt that has arisen and of what is the result, as the minister explained in the previous exhibition at some point earlier, however, I accept that explanation. However, the purpose of our amendment is why we should be in charge if leadership is the same, if this same leadership could do that debt at any time, because it hasn't changed and it continues to exist today, there is still a aggregate of one serious debt and a great burden that I trust you care about, we also worry, because again, we as politicians, as the chosen people, are not invisible, but we are absolutely one phenomenon that is obliged to fight for the interests of the people. We exist, we're not someone who doesn't exist. For what reasons, then, do not resort to something that will be a real solution to such a situation. All right, but it won't be the first if you have the same leadership that did it all. So, even if I didn't explain it to the details and I didn't say that someone for more than five, more than seven years managed that same firm and then the state silently, it's unsustainable, because it's being brought into a situation that all people, all of the citizens of this country, are becoming invisible. Because the government has more things to cover someone else's incompetence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44800	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44801	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable ministers and honored guests, is a very obvious great anxiety of the ruling majority when it comes to this law. We believe he must not be adopted. It must not be because it is not in line with the interests of Serbian citizens who give money to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is not in the interest of the Republic of Serbia to pay 200m euros and to take up debts for a simple reason, which is not the fact that we will question energy efficiency and that energy security will also be at stake. So, because of you and your party combinations and people sitting on various boards at NIS, among other things, Mr. Mijailovic, who is on your left, who is obviously one of the representatives of the company that is asking Serbia to take over the debt of "Srbijagas". So, Goran Knezevic, millions and 79,000 dinars, has a monthly allowance because he also sits on one of the boards in NIS, Danica Draskovic and others. We are now doing the coalition in power a service that is in their company and here we are paying your interests, your people sitting on those committees. Two hundred million, and we cut pensions to pensioners, and we took salaries from those who educate children in Serbia, and besides that, you give 500 euros to each Serbian employee as a new year's aid. This is extracurricular insolence. SNS officials sit there and Serbian citizens pay them for it. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44802	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44803	It's a shame to hear this discussion, it's a shame. In particular, if the debt originated between 2008 and 2012. What do the amendment promoters talk about, the applicants, call them whatever you want? No one says it was a debt when the debt came, who made it? Well, you say, let's not pay, why don't you say what happens next? Let's leave the people unheated. Let's not pay and people don't have heat today. Here, it's warm today, will it be tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? We're gonna use the barrels to heat up? That seems to be the most interesting thing for you. Debt was created because of a bad policy led by the government until 2012. This isn't a new debt. Why don't you tell me who the biggest debtors are? You know that very well. The biggest debtors, or one of the biggest debtors, are Azotars from Panchev. So, who ran this Azotara? What did the minister of this government who led Azotara end up in prison? Because of the manipulation of artificial fertilizer. Why don't you say so? Why don't you just say that the biggest debtors are the heat bills that have charged the heating bills? Why don't you tell me who the directors were and who was setting them up? Why don't you say they're from the parties to these amendments? They spent money, and they didn't pay the bills to Serbia. Do we want to leave those citizens behind, the ones who paid the bills without heating? Well, say more than you want. Has the Government of Alexander Vukic completed the NIS Cup Birth Contract? It's not. Did she set up the rent? It's not. She set up the Democratic Party's rent. What, are you saying it's not like that? That's right. That's right. Boris Tadic went to determine the mine. What are you complaining about now? What are you complaining about now? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Who voted for it? ) Well, the MPs of the Democratic Party voted. Guys, what's wrong with you? You've got something wrong here. I keep saying, this government doesn't have enough time to deal with reforms until it has to fix the screwups, mistakes, intricacies and corruption of the government by 2012, not to say a rough word. I'm trying to maintain the dignity of this house. So one irresponsible behavior led to this law. And if anyone says -- let's not pay, come on, but get out on the street and tell the citizens -- you won't have any more heat. Can you do that? Can you risk their health? You can risk... (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: Life. You can risk someone's lives, I can't. Good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44804	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44805	Replica, the D.S. is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44807	I have no intention of yelling the way the previous speaker did, because the arguments are not stronger if the voice rises. I think the minister will understand, since he understands the language of numbers. The amendment is rejected and the government's argument is that it is rejected because the government was forced to, and we heard in the debate, that because of the non-economic conditions and due to the disparity of gas prices, the debts of Serbiagas from 2008 to 2013. But let's look at this business of Serbiagas right now, which is so scary. To be clear, with the same director who stayed from 2008 until today, and you support him in that. So, when the loss of Serbiagas was 42m euros in 2010, and the terrible years of disparity, non-economic conditions, that in 2012, the loss increased to about 35 billion dinars, which is equivalent to around 200, nearly 300m euros, that in 2014, we can all check that, in these ideal conditions, the loss of Serbiaagas is 400m euros. Here's the argument for those terrible years from 2008 to 2011. That's one thing. In the debate we discussed and Mr. Minister called on us to resolve it, why we call on it, and whether we should pay the debt. Of course, you have to pay that debt, but not in this way by adopting the law selectively, because it is extremely dangerous for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44808	Time, thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the site: I will use the time of power. You can't go on the line, so use it for a while. Sit down, report to the amendment. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: I am reporting by amendment. Just sit down first, so we have some order, please. Your group's out of time. Only Goran Ciric can speak. (Goran Ciric, from the post: I have as an authorised representative. I am speaking for other MPs behind you who are persistently pressing. Mr. Senic, you can only speak, under Article 39, if the president of your group isn't here in the O.R. So you can't both be in the O.R. and you can replace him by sitting there. Article 39(2) - in the event of his absence... (Alexander Srnić, from the post: Borisa Tadic, president, is mentioned by my party. ) Not mentioned Boris Tadic in a negative context, but DS. Then not all who claim Boris Tadic to report here in the O.R. He was a member of the DS and president at the time. He had the advantage of this part of the Democratic Party. Thank you. I am deciding on Article 104, paragraph 3, and I am holding a session, and now every real president needs to lead, not to demonstrate the democracy that has turned into a well-organised chaos, as one famous theorist on the organisation of chaos would say. You after the amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44809	So I said it was extremely dangerous for us to pass system laws here that increase the debt of the Republic of Serbia, which has increased over the past three and a half years from 15 billion euros to 25 billion, i.e. Almost 10 billion, and here's the new 200 million. I think it's dangerous for other risks, Mr. Minister. I think it's dangerous because we selectively resolve the interrelationships of the two systems, the systems of Serbiagas and NIS, where we are going to be in danger of other creditors opening the issue, which is why we haven't dealt with it in this way and towards them. According to Serbia's director, since 26 March 2015, Serbiagas's claims are 1.4 billion euros, and its debts are 1.1 billion euros, according to him. So the claims are higher by 300m euros than the debt. I think our decision would be much better if we had received from you this bill and a list of debtors and all creditors, so that all of us would be more clear as to why this selective approach and just to settle the debt to the NIS. Now we can also talk about this inefficientness and debt and possible social earthquakes if the debt is not settled, so NIS would not deliver its product according to heat and local public utility systems. Who brought these public utility systems to a bar like this? All in losses, local budgets are being filled with 60% of the planned level and we have major protests of citizens who do not get quality heating. Three, four furniture that ran Toplana in Nis have constantly at the door of thousands of protesting citizens. It's likely that this dissatisfaction will be even more, but unfortunately, I think it's dangerous and devastating that in this way we are selectively covering the demands of only one system, besides many who are obviously looking for another 1.1 billion euros. On the other hand, we're introducing one injustice, which we agreed on, where you said no law can be entirely just. But this is indeed a great injustice, that people who don't use gas in any way, directly or indirectly, through heat that hasn't made a conversion in their cities and municipalities, out of their pocket as taxpayers of this state pay those who have that privilege, to heat up on gas or use it as energy, have a grant from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44810	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44811	Thank you very much. Let me look first at positive suggestions. So the last two proposals that had very constructive elements put this into a broader context that is perfectly justified. So one context is a broader and deeper reform of Serbiagas where this is an integral part of the reform. I'm sorry we can't so quickly do all that. An assessment of the Serbiagas activity, the management of the structure and everything else has been commissioned, and I expect that Serbia will enter and be supported by the World Bank through a structural adjustment programme, in which all these elements, which you are talking about, will be. This is the quality of transparent management, efficiency in business, separation of transit from distribution, etc. It'll be an integral part of the decision. It would be good if it were here right now, this Debt Act, the timing of this thing with other factors, which is that by the end of this year, this is to be adopted, to take advantage of a favourable position, because we're forced by the conditions that we've accepted to complete this kind of debt that we're taking, we're dragging them through the deficit at the moment we take it. In this year, we have space, and next year we won't have any, although we're paying, we'll only pay 20%. So the structure, if you look at that funding structure, 20% is paid this year and the next 80% is paid in five six-month tranches per 16% and that's all going to be 2.3 billion. The second solid proposal here is, as we said, 23.4 billion. The second proposal is to look at the energy situation in general, primarily in the gas in Serbia and to clean up the situation. It is also a good proposal, but it requires much more preparation and much more political, economic and institutional consent than you can imagine. I'm usually a fan of it, but it's not easy to do. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44812	Thanks, time. I thank you For the name of the member and member of the 2nd amendment in the same text, Members Janko Veselinović, together Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, together Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and together Marko Djurisić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Bran Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44813	Thank you, Madam President. Just so there is no confusion in Article 2 -- the Republic of Serbia takes over as a public debt of the Republic of Serbia, a commitment from Article 1 of this law to a total nominal amount of up to 23.379,767,018.82. When asked, if it's an old debt, why didn't it happen before. Mr. Vujovic, he says it is because NIS has not pressed the republic before, in fact "Srbijagas" to repay the debt, and now pressures. So in NIS, SNS vice president and co-worker Mr. Vujovic, who sits on his left hand side, from the SNS, are pushing Mr. Bajatovic from the SPS to repay some debt to which Mr. Bajatovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this Assembly say -- well, not then will be the debt of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay that someone from the SNS is pushing someone from the SPS to repay a debt of 23 billion dinars and that's what this law we have to be against is about. We believe that's why this session was called as it was called. We are convinced that this is why there is no transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we are confident that this is done exclusively to the harm of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are not against paying the debt, and let him pay "Srbigas", let or how many times we will give Mr. Vujovic guarantees "Serbiagas" this year for new duties, how many times you will come to this Assembly to ask for more guarantees, so that some citizens return it again, because Goran Knezevic is looking for these debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44814	Thank you. I am obliged to tell you, I find out from you that there is no transmission, so tomorrow I will call Dragan Bujosevic immediately, to ask what it is and to explain to all MPs why we are finishing the transfer at 1800 hours. First, you asked for a replica or an amendment. Ambassador Babic, by amendment. Then first we'll have to listen to everything. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44815	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for a law on commitment, the public company "Srbigas" Novi Sad according to NIS a.d. company Novi Sad and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia have submitted six amendments, including amendments to Article 2 of this proposal. Minister Vujovic, we suggest that Article 2 be deleted. Three arguments now I offer here very precisely, gentlemen. Here's an argument. Minister Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen, is an unacceptable practice, I think that the debt of "Serbia" is transformed into a public debt of Serbia because such actions, respected gentlemen, stimulates the irresponsibility and irresponsible business of public enterprises. I think it's a precise argument. The second argument, gentlemen, instead of irresponsibility, we here not only today but in these years and eight months of working in the National Assembly we advocate the ethics of responsibility in politics. And it would be responsible, for example, now that Minister Vujovic now accepts this amendment. The third argument, gentlemen, was mentioned by Mrs Jerkov, and here again, in Article 2, the Republic of Serbia is taking over the public debt with a total nominal amount of 23.379,767,018.82 dinars. We believe, Your Honor, this is the third argument, Minister Vujovic, that this intention of the Government and morally unwarranted in the conditions of reduced salaries and pensions, given that this date of reduction occurred precisely as a result of the accumulation and public debt due to irresponsible business both "Serbia" and other businesses. Here, that's three arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44816	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44817	The chairperson, co-workers and fellow MPs, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZS, submitted an amendment to Article 2 and the name of Article 2 for the reason it is immaterial to discuss the debt of someone who is irresponsible. We in this situation have, therefore, a debt created on a memorandum signed for the period from 1 December 2011 to 31 March 2013. This is the amount created as debt, not 2007, in 2008. That's what you've given in the light of this law. Under that memo, where there are works and times when the government has performed some other party, but also the period in which the current party is operating. Therefore, when we talk about debt it would be correct to identify that debt, it is large and unpleasant and no debt is a companion, but half of it. As for the 200m euros that are easy, we have to pay back the debt and no one argues here that it has to come back, there is another way. There are certain moral norms that those who have or have made this debt either as managers of that period, and today may have participated in the conduct of a poor business policy to come to such a debt, have to be moral and to make sure that no bonuses are paid, that no new year's gifts are paid at 500 euros, and that all possible compensations are lifted on the other side, that even for travel abroad, which I did not use, but for which it is very useful, there is no need, I have passed the whole world much earlier than now, I did not need to come to the Assembly and do not need to earn. So all segments of society need to behave in that sense. I don't see what's causing this suspicion, anxiety with the other MPs. You want as well as I want. If we've all given up why the one in whose name we're paying is behaving arrogantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44818	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44819	First, I think that anxiety was shown by another colleague who had just made an incident, and that none of the SNS MPs, who have listened carefully to previous exposure, had shown no anxiety or, in one’s opinion, nervousness was manifested by patient sitting and participating in the work of the National Assembly. I think there are a few issues here, but those who impose these issues are extremely dishonest and somehow share business and "Gasproma" and "NIS" and "Srbigas" only since 2012. They won't look at what happened until 2012, so I'll answer the question, without wanting to be a lawyer to the current director of "Srbigas" Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, and besides, there are enough of his friends from his party, so if I need a lawyer, and I believe that they will do it for me, but while we're at the personnel issues, let's ask a question – and who voted with both the votes and whose decision Dusan Bajatovic became the director of "Srbiagas". He came to that place with voices, those who now dispute him. Gentlemen, why didn't you dispute him then? Why didn't you set him up then? Why didn't you tell him then? You don't run it, and you don't do it right. No, you needed him back then. At the time, you needed a party to which it belonged, because if it hadn't been for that party, there wouldn't have been a government in 2008. He was great to you at the time, and then you hugged him, and then you played basketball, and then you signed various equalization agreements. That's when it all worked out. What now? The second question that is being raised, and also humanely, bothers you, Goran Knezevic, and it is not the first time that you have been disturbed. You have held a man in the justice of God for more than 12 months in custody, in the justice of God. Why? Because he was able to raise his voice and stand up to Bojana Pitiæ and his will. He's been in custody for over a year. Legally released, by a decision of the judicial authorities. And you continue to be such a man, and it is not enough for you, that you have politically held him in custody for 13 months. You want to continue to massacre him. Is there any honor in that? Is there a morale? By the way, a man who's not here with us can't, not defend himself, but say what he thinks of you and your politics. The next question to be raised and the issue is staff policy. Who sat in NIS bodies until 2012? Something to me, if memory is not my fault, and it is not my fault, that the NIS authorities were actively and actively involved by the then government minister and senior official DS Dusan Petrovic. Did it bother you, did you then ask the question – and how much of Dushana Petrovic you receive for membership in the board of directors of NIS? No, it's not. You shouldn't have. Because Dusan Petrovic was the vice president of the DS. Who dared the vice president of the DS to ask where he is and where all the organs are members, and how many are his receipts and how great that colleague on the other hand throws and says yes. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I was brave. That's how he accepts my words. We want to go on about the human questions and how you are and how you are, you are now bothered by the membership of Danica Draskovic, and you did not mind then. Because you once again had five SPO votes from this House to form a government and maintain a government. Well, you voted for Danica Draskovic in parliament. And now you can ask questions and place a burden on this government of the Republic of Serbia why it runs such a human policy. Where is Dusan Elezovic, chairman of the board of directors of the Vojvodina Clinical Center? And who's the director? Mrs. Pitiæ. So much for these staff issues so transparently divided. I think this nepotism is the worst kind. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: That is not true. I don't know what Mr. Elezovica is, except that he's a member of the DS, I don't know if it's wearing glasses in the past in a bar, did he set it up and put it on the board of the Duke's Clinical Center? Next question to be raised. When did this debt come into being? Debts have to come back. Whoever made them, whoever made them, the debts must return. Minister Vujovic responded nicely -- these debts, which are now this government of the Republic of Serbia, because it does not want the burden to transfer to the future, was made until 2012, when you led this country in a wrong way. The next question – and who made this debt? He spoke nicely to you, Arsic. He spoke nicely to you who are the biggest debtors to "Serbigas" - "Azotar". Who has brought this “Azotara ” to ruin? Who took advantage? Who sold artificial garbage, put money in his pocket, and the debts remained “Azotari” or “Serbiagas”? Sasa Dragin, again a highly positioned DS official, Minister of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. That's where the debts came from and now you're saying about what some other thugs took and took, which this country has to pay back, what this government has to pay back, you say – and why do you do it? And who will? Who? And a third question to be imposed. How many, Mr. Vujovicu, if my knowledge does not deceive me and if my memory does not deceive me, how many times has this National Assembly, some similar law or some similar agreement, which she has taken over and paid back the debts of "Srbigas" done by 2012? (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: at least four times. ) at least four times. At least four times, all those who voted in favour of taking over and repaying the debt "Srbigas", now one time and their debts, where their misdemeanors did not meet the debts. At least eight hundred million euros, if memory does not cheat on me, and Mr Vujovic will surely say it precisely, are debts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken over in some previous periods and returned on behalf of "Srbigas". What happened then? Then you voted with both hands, then that was fine. Because your punks suggested it. And, your punks made a debt, in your mangoons' time a debt was made. You bastards who voted for such agreements, and we are responsible and guilty by the government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Well, how much more hypocritical? Well, as long as more dust is in the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? How much longer does that panic spread? People haven't worked since 2012. Since 2012, the more you spread panic and lies like this, the more you sink and the more you cannot learn about it. You can't say that. All right, we've been doing it, too. Let's move on. It's got to be done. We can't be in debt, who do we leave our debts to? No, now you criticize what you've done and not once, four times. Learn a little from the past. Learn from what you did and how you did and move on. Because the way you work your way, there's nothing else I can tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44820	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44821	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44822	Rules of Procedure first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44823	Thank you. I'd like to advertise Article 107. Rules of Procedure, this is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think Mr. Babic, as head of the SNS parliamentary club, really shouldn't represent the qualifications he has raised, I don't know if you've been following, but I don't think the word "mangupi" and as regards the opposition is similar to the National Assembly. You know that our head of Parliament has been excluded from this session for the next 30 days and I ask you to use the same criteria, the same criteria. If you give notice to us as an opposition, I ask that it also applies to the representatives of the government, or to the representatives of the majority, or to withdraw the warnings you gave us. The only thing I ask you to do is use the same criteria and criteria to both the authorities and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44824	Ambassador Marko Djurisic is the only one who has received all fines under the Rules of Procedure, not the opposition, as I see here on the left members and MPs of opposition parties. Therefore, Marko Djurisic is not an opposition. Secondly, Marko Djurisic is not excluded because of the spoken word, you know it very well as a lawyer and a lawyer and you have skillfully presented it. My compliments, but he's been disfellowshipped because of inappropriate behavior that lasts for days. Yesterday he received a warning, today he received two warnings, his word and measure taken by article 111 of the leave of the hall. We let him sit down because we don't want to be involved in that kind of work, because apparently the MP wanted to make some kind of scandal here. I don't think that's the end of my mind, but let's discuss the bill's proposals, let's hear about and against it. It's the first time I've heard the word "mangupi" that's offensive. I asked all of you, a year ago, to write the words of the river, all possible words, so that I may know what one must say, what one must not, and that is what all MPs refused to do. I really, except for some swearing and some rudeness, can't be some tas on that cantara right now. We'll vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You insist on that, thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44825	Thank you. We have heard these ten minutes of accusations directed at dozens of people and the constant need to be under the pressure of arguments, heard from the parliamentary benches of the opposition, turned always attention to the individual, with the worst insults and with the worst accusations that have no basis in the truth. I'm trying to get all of us and Mr. Minister to respond to these calls, which is that we have simple data and the figures are clear. In 2010, during this terrible period of "Srbigas", the loss of "Srbijagas" 42m euros. In 2014, in this great period, the loss of "Srbigas" 400m euros. Ten times as many. Ten times as many. Calling for us to correct these old debts and this period that was terrible for "Srbigas"... Speaking of directors, this isn't about the director. I want to propose and the minister accepted the proposals and agreed that there was not enough capacity, obviously, in this government, in institutions to make a comprehensive approach to this problem, and I think that's important. I call on the minister to withdraw this law, because the new 200m euros, without having any insight into all those debtors and all the creditors of "Serbiagas", where we have clear information that 1.4 billion requests for "Srbigas", are 300 million more than debts, something that gives a simple solution to this problem. Why put your hand in the budget, why not use all the capacities of “Srbigas” itself? That difference in claims and debts and do everything to get this debt back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44826	Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, Members Janko Veselinović, together Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, together Gordana Komić, Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and together Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44827	I thank Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed, as Parliament Group Boris Tadic, SDS, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, that the member and the name above article 3 be deleted, because we strongly oppose your proposal to turn 3.3.79,767,018 dinars into public debt, that the debt of "Srbigas" to NIS becomes the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to be on the burden of the budget. A colleague, Goran Ciric, said that, according to Serbian director Srbijagas, "Srbigas" is looking for 1.4 billion, where its debt is 1.1 billion and I do not see the reason for the ease you take out of the 200m-euro budget. If you have so much extra money, Minister, in the RS budget, I suggest you return to Serbian healthcare 300m euros, because you will give so much for pensions that you can pay or fulfil your legal obligation, I repeat for the 15th time in five days, to pay off contributions under Article 22. The law on contributions. It's your legal obligation. You predicted 668 million this year, instead of 11 billion dinars. That's much more necessary. Here to give money, rather than give it this way until you level the accounts of “Serbiagas. ” You have the option, Minister, see who's due, what's chargeable, so if there's a problem in some amount of money, then come to the Assembly to talk about whether the Assembly agrees to turn into a public debt. I don't know how you choose it, but sometimes there are, sometimes there's no money in the budget. Now there is money in the budget, and for what is called the health of the Serbian people there is no money in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44828	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44829	Article 3 reads - the funds for the reconciliation of the obligations set out in Article 2 and the obligations are 23,379,767,018,82 are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. My first question – is that foreseen in the budget for next year? The second question – are you aware that this is almost five times more than the culture budget, say, for all of Serbia? Is there any end to this? If the debt of gas consumers towards "Srbigas" is over a billion and a half, let's hear who these debtors are, we might be surprised. Maybe it's some newspaper, some tabloids. It might be someone who has a villa from the "fundus dipos". Maybe Asokaku is in debt. Maybe they owe us our eternal friends. Who made that debt? To remind the absent, spokeswoman of the ruling coalition, that "Srbigas" was founded in 2005, so that they do not transfer responsibility to Pavicevic for anything that has to do with it. It's truly an incredible success to make the world's biggest debt in less than ten years. So there's no public enterprise in any state that's even civilized and that has that kind of debt. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. I'm not talking about us distant, but friendly countries, under quotes, I'm talking about a normal world. I'd like to hear the information on who's ten of the biggest debtors to the "Serbiagas" gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44830	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44831	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, we have a situation where "Srbigasu" failed companies run by SNS directors owe billions of euros. "Serbia" owes NIS and now the government of the Republic of Serbia, for NIS to close their hand, has to pay 200m euros in demand. So you take a pensioner's life to pour for those companies where the directors have tens of thousands of euros in income. You take professors' dignity to pay for failed businesses in Serbia. Finally, the possibility for young doctors in Serbia to treat Serbian citizens, to pay failed businesses what they owe NIS. Who's asking that? Who's that looking for from NIS? SNS officials again. Again, Goran Knezevic with a million and 79,000 monthly incomes. Then Vujovic's closest associates sitting here with us today. Well, then many others who have hundreds of thousands of dinars of income, and pensioners can't even have what they've earned in their lives. So we give 500 euros a New Year's present to each employee in the same "Srbigas", and 50 euros back to education workers as one-time assistance. Well, when you take away from them, then you humiliate them, and when you give them, then you humiliate them even more. Now, that's the government of the Republic of Serbia and that's the attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now, they didn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44832	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44833	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, so the energy community does not think that "Serbiagas" has failed the firm. It is the heart of the energy stability of the Republic of Serbia and therefore seek to restructure such a public enterprise according to the model of all modern developed European states. Therefore, restructuring and division of responsibilities in "Srbigas" was carried out at the manufacturer's and the distribution part. Thus, 11% of the gas network is located in Serbia which finances all schools, all hospitals, all heat. The subsidized price of gas shows that the essentially complete economy depends on both "Srbigas" and NIS. And when we talk about NIS, so let's be honest, let's be honest when it was sold NIS, that the balance sheets of balance and success aren't really shown. To be honest, 71% of ownership was then sold to a Russian partner, and 29% remained to the Serbian partner. And when we talk about who all members of the board of directors, the Supervisory Board are, so it needs to be realistic and to remember in 2011 at the end of the year that the minister then came here to seek the support of the Serbian Parliament for 50 points in the agenda of the 1.4 billion-euro agreement. That there was also a memorandum in the group at the time when we were talking about the debts of "Serbiagas" to NIS. Therefore, the budget could not be passed before Mrs. Danica Draskovic became a member of the NIS Management Board. So you've been very involved in this debt. You only did the memo when you collected all debts in 2011. So you've waited years and years to accumulate to define how much you're in charge of both the entire state and the budget. It's just that in the budget, you've shown it as bank guarantees so they haven't been shown, and now that we're just coming up with a plan budget, when the IMF has an agreement with them, they're asking it to be decidently defined in money. Therefore, this is the only way to know exactly what debt is, when we speak, and the payment of the debt of "Serbian gas" to NIS. Therefore, this is one way to be honest with the citizens of Serbia, but also with international institutions financially, to say how much "Serbiagas" debt is to the Russian partner. And it doesn't need to be hidden like you've been hiding, and you've been leading them off the grid, but it just needs to be shown. Since indeed in the previous three years we have had a problem with the budget and in this whole consolidation, it is a good thing that our Russian partner simply did not ask for it to be expressed immediately and you should be proud of it because it would bring down the complete financial consolidation and payment and pensions, and wages. And it should be honest with the citizens of Serbia, not telling some stories that now there will be a huge collapse that is simply not up to us, but depends on the SNS. Well, we didn't sell NIS. We didn't participate in making those debts until 2011 but you did. Whether it was the left or the right Democratic Party, it doesn't matter anymore. The important thing is that today we have this much debt. And be realistic and honest, and not with cheap political pamphlets here to go out and scare the people. That is why this amendment should not be accepted. It needs to be extremely real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44834	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44835	Whether you want it or not, there's a debt, a debt has to be paid. Now, the other thing is who's responsible for it and me when I listen to my DS colleagues, I can't help but say, gentlemen, you're right. But it would be more logical if you were in prison, not the five-six of you who are here, but those who led Serbia in the previous period and those who ruined everything in Serbia, and the economy, and the health care, and the schooling. These are the people who brought us into this situation. I think it's much better and smarter to go to common forces now to correct all that's been done in the past, without stalling with these discussions, the gaps that can last for a long time. So let each one answer for what he's done. So be it for your government, so be it for all your directors, and so be it for those who inherited them if they do so badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44836	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44837	You mentioned DS and it's a good call to turn to the solution, and we offer a solution all the time. I think it's clear to those who want to hear it. And as for inheritance, and the DS also inherited 2000 years of chaos in the country, we did not call today for what was inherited, and I illustrated what was inherited in 2012 and with what loss was then "Srbigas" worked. In 2010, the U.S. 40m euros in loss of "Srbigas", in 2014, 400m euros, ten times the loss. These are the figures that talk about how to run that system in different conditions. But what our offer is, Mr. Minister, I really don't think it's a little hard to get a list of all the debtors, whoever it is, whether it was said of Azotara and whoever was in it and whenever it was, to get a complete argument on the list of all the biggest debtors, because it's logical, I guess it's logical that 1.4 billion euros in Serbia's claims and 1.1 billion in debt, where these 200 million euros are also due to NIS, will be paid with an attempt or management that will lead to this system by able to collect those claims. Three hundred million more debt claims. We're just talking about it. Have we exhausted all the mechanisms to effectively collect all claims or not? Is it necessary now to further debt the Republic of Serbia with the new 200m euros? Is that good? You're nodding your head, and we think we need to give us a lot more arguments, because really ten billion euros for these three and a half years is huge money, and public debt for next year plus these 200 million euros is something that... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44838	Thank you, MP. She was a replica to Ljubishi Stojmirović, and you spoke to the minister, but well. (Dusan Vujovic, from town: Replica. Of course. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44839	I thank you for mentioning all the dilemmas again. I'd be overjoyed if what you're proposing was possible. So, let's just say -- we're not going to pay this $200 million and go on like nothing happened. That would be fantastic. I would suggest we all vote for it right now and stop this debate. Unfortunately, believe me, that's not possible. What we said was a commitment from March 2013 and was agreed for entering fiscal consolidation. They're not individual people, but they're agreed at the highest possible level, that we're going to settle it at the end of this year, and we're going to get it through public debt. So, in other words, break through, figuratively speaking, means that we're going to record it as a public debt, register as a deficit and pay 20% this year, and the rest in five equal wars by 16% of that amount. Those are the prices agreed upon. If you want to discuss where what is, who arranged with "Serbiagas", with NIS, etc., we can open this debate, but I think it is unproductive. However, this is 200 million, there was a company that Deloit estimated at two billion and something, sold for 400 million. Therefore, there is a significantly greater difference. As for other obligations, we have already “regulated them all. ” They're all covered either by guarantees or by specific duties, and we're going in with full payment of the whole situation. The condition to regulate this now was the so-called filling of Banatski Dvor, which provides Serbia with an annual offer, i.e. annual gas consumption in the event of any disturbance on the world market, we can count on having the necessary gas supply for the whole year. So this is an integral part, someone has already mentioned a broader consolidation program. Two suggestions I accept specifically, but believe me, it wasn't possible in these deadlines to do so. One is to look at the issue of the total debt and the position "Srbigas", and the other is a question of changing the management of transparency and efficiency in functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44840	Thank you. The word is Dejan Radenkovic, followed by Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44841	Thank you, President. Here, I have listened carefully to the previous debates and I do not think this amendment, which the opposition colleagues have proposed, is obvious, and that citizens know well that it is pure demagogy. So if I were to go in line now to answer to everyone and defend my friend Dusan Bayatovic, then I'd have to make some parallels. You know, it's easy to talk when you're the manager of some firm that charges your service before you execute it. Then boast and criticize the managers of the other firm, who must sell goods at a lower price than they obtain, and also collect it. Dear colleagues from the Democratic Party know well when Dusan Bajatovic was defending the Liberal Democratic Party's attack, which sold the same demagogy and is no longer sitting in parliament today, because their entire discussion was a demagogy. So, the minister explains it nicely to you, but you don't want to hear it, it's your right as an opposition, but you see, find some other strategy not to go through like the ones that aren't in the assembly benches today. They are not the only ones, as was the Democratic Party of Serbia. Where are they today in the benches? They're nowhere to be found. That doesn't work for the citizens. This is my well-intentioned advice. You want us not to do this, do you want to block "Srbigas" tomorrow and stop supplying all the heats that haven't settled their debts? Say it publicly - citizens, we want you to have no heating tomorrow, because "Srbigas" cannot pay its obligations to the supplier. So you want to compromise the stable supply of the gas market, which is so obvious. You all know there are a lot of companies that owe gas and energy companies, companies that are in restructuring. So why did they come into restructuring? Well, then we'll go back to the year someone says -- don't call me and my colleague, we have nothing to do with it. Well, there is. Let's do an analysis. Let's see, maybe we won't get along there, have a common position on the matter, but at some point the Social Accounting Service was abolished. At that moment, many companies no longer had a control mechanism, whether they were paying taxes, contributions and other obligations to the state. That was piling up. Then we came into a phase to transfer them to be firms in restructuring and to pay no one. Then we have this social category, what we're going to do. Now that someone's going to do something and take painful steps, let's attack that too. I don't think that's correct, especially it's not correct, I say from respected colleagues who were directors of public enterprises, who I can freely say that my 12-year-old daughter could run such companies. They have a system in place and it works, the director can come in, charge a favor before he does and criticises his colleague who doesn't know how to set up, not not to know, but it's simply impossible like this. And for that, we need to sit down and make a deal with both local self-government and government and public enterprises. I think I've made myself clear, of course to my colleagues it's not enough, the citizens of Serbia understand it well, and the citizens of Serbia will punish such demagogue things that are being presented here in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44842	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44843	I can't help but wonder that they're asking colleagues from the former regime questions they know the answer to. Why do they do that, which 400 billion dinars does "Srbigas" owe to the gas delivery? You have now heard from the minister that all obligations other than commitments made by 2012. What are you making up more? What are you asking the companies that made such debts to “Srbigas” when you know? You guys know what's wrong with you. These are restructuring companies, these are the same companies where you put your directors in those companies. We paid these same directors from the Republic of Serbia's budget as a subsidy to businesses, so that they would have very, very high salaries, three, four, five times as much as MPs. Instead of doing their job to restructure the water properly, they just piled up debts. Nothing more. One of the debts is due to "Srbigas". Don't ask who they are, you know. Here, Mr. Zivkovic may not know, but let him ask around. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. I haven't mentioned you badly in any part, Mr. Zivkovic. Ask around your fellow MPs who sit around you, they will tell you who the directors were and how they ran the businesses and how much their salaries were, and what companies they were, and how debts to “Srbigas” were made. Just ask you around.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44844	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44845	Here I asked Mr. Pavicevic and he can't answer any of these questions, since he's never been in power, he's never been in parliament, he's never voted for any director, and God forbid me, never. I've never voted in favour of any director, any public firm, affirmatively. That means I voted for someone's choice. So it's a completely wrong address, but since you're asking me, I can give you good answers. First, one of the good successes is that "Srbigas" did not exist at the time, since it was founded to make losses, the largest in the world. Secondly, at a time when I was dealing with politics in the first step, Serbia's debt was below 10 billion euros, children were returning from abroad, and 2000 new private companies were founded in 2003. That means people expected it to be better. There was progress in all sectors. In three years after October 5th, education salaries were raised several times four, five times. In health care, too. And it's also true that the price of electricity went up, someone played there 600% last time, or I don't know exactly how much, because the price we found was like that three dinar bread, very beautiful, phenomenal, but it's not. It wasn't possible to get electricity at that price. Here's a question to be told, if it's a state secret that we know it's a state secret -- what ten of Serbia's largest companies are in debt to "Srbigasu" or the minister doesn't know that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44846	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44847	A colleague Arsic has already mentioned to you, since I do not know the exact list, I do not want you to hold my word, but these are "Azotara", Petrochemija", Smederevo, then all the big heat in the cities. That's by the eighth, ninth place. We'll send the exact list, it's not classified information. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44848	Thank you. You have no right, Mr. Zivkovic. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44849	I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure, which states: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is abusively expressing himself about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, ” I have not used any offensive expression, I consider myself to be a well-behaved man, so I do not see what basis is given by my colleague Zivkovic the right to replication? I just asked my colleague, Zivkovic, that when he had time to ask his colleagues around him, not only the members of his political party but also those from whom he was elected and those with whom he hung out by 2003, who were these directors and what companies were they? Now I'm asking Mr. Minister, just to take this opportunity, to deliver to us what are the biggest debtors and who were the executives of these debtors at the time the debts were due?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44850	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. You forgot to quote until the end, that's what the chairman decides. I estimated, because you mentioned Mr. Zivkovic's last name, that Mr. Zivkovic had the right to reply, and since you partly abused the Rules of Procedure because you used the address and the minister, I am subtracting two minutes from your parliamentary group. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 4th Amendment in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, joint MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Gordana Komić, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozidović, and joint MPs Marko Djurić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, magistrate Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić, submitted their name. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44851	Thank you, Mr. Becic. For example, I would be interested, given that the director of "Serbia" is one of the MPs, I would be interested in the Anti-Corruption Agency if our colleague would be in conflict of interest when he votes here to convert the debts of the firm in which he is the director into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the debt of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I think that would be really interesting to ask the Anti-Corruption Agency. Maybe the president could, too, I believe she cares about this House working legally, asking for an opinion. At the very least, I think it would be appropriate for Mr. Bajatovic to be exempt from the vote, even out of some moral responsibility, since the majority in the National Assembly of the company's debt will be transferred to the debts of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since he's not here and we can't ask him, I'd like to ask Mr. Verbic something. I mean, next time you've got the educators coming in...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44852	Miss Jerkov, I would ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to speak of a subject which is not subject to your amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44853	Okay. Here, I ask if it would be possible for the next time the educators come to complain because their salary is 36,000 dinars... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44854	I asked you not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to speak of anything that is not the subject of your amendment. Please wait patiently for the point... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: But, Mr. Becic, they create debts of heat, and "Serbigas" transfers debts to citizens... That's very nice. Thank you. You will get the word, Mr. Jovanovic, but you will forgive me if I say that Mr. Bajatovic will certainly be correct not to attend the vote, be assured of that. Mr. Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44855	Mr. Chairman, I am advocating Article 106, given that obviously the whole story has gone beyond the subject of the agenda of the legal act under discussion, so before we prejudge the situation that we do not know at all whether it will be called to the Privatisation Agency, which in particular has absolutely no room for any jurisdiction. Will Mr Dusan Bajatovic vote or not, will he be in conflict of interest, what does this have to do with today's debate on the legal act under discussion? Whether he will come to the congregation or not, it is exclusively his will and he will make sure that he will eventually accept the possibility of entering some risk when it comes to conflict of interest. But in no way should you have allowed it as a right to be discussed by any MP, especially because it is not here. Given the fact that this is not a topic at all, which is why I have advertised Article 106, at least you should have mentioned the circumstances of the letter of Jerkov, so I ask that in the future, when such situations occur, you react, so that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44856	I thank Mr. Jovanovic, but I am absolutely sure you will understand me for what reason I have not responded to what Miss Jerkov said. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44857	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted the amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a "Serbiagas" commitment to "NIS" law, and here, in Article 4, which has the title – Mode and dynamics of reconciliation, among other things, states that the obligations under Article 2 of this Act, and those obligations amount to 23 billion 379 million 767 thousand 18.82 dinars, will be paid in six wars, until 31 May 2018. Then I must tell Mr Vujovic one of my observations regarding the content and this Article 4. It's a bill of law. Mr Vujovicu, we believe it was necessary for the government to be determined, we often listen to the word here, implement a restructuring of companies that would completely eliminate loss. That determination in restructuring would be a clear association to the word "reform", a key word for every minister and minister who comes on behalf of the government here. Since there is no restructuring, it would be responsible, I think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, that a representative of the government, and that is now Mr Vujovic, says that the Serbian Government, in this composition, has been unsuccessful on this issue and that then we open a debate here on what to do with a failed government. So the poor proposal contained in article 4 of this bill, which has been filed by my court, by the irresponsible government, should be deleted. I think it would be appropriate for the minister to respond to each of these objections, based on which we judge the content of this bill. We've said a lot of words here, and there's no answer from the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44858	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44859	I don't know where to make those logical jumps. The government was very successful, freed "Srbigas" of all interest, reprogrammed this debt for six wars, 20 plus five times 16, without additional interest. So I think it's a sign of success, not a failure. The government has resolved the debt issue, provided continuous supplies, maintained its position and its relations, which, as you know, with Gazprom through NIS are not simple relations. They're not simple relationships, and so, what we've set ourselves up as a task, it's perfectly done here, just like we said. I don't think it's going to be too much of a burden for us to have those debts that came here during the previous years, the two heating seasons, paid off in the way this is supposed to be. I repeat again – I fully agree that this should be an integral part of the deeper resolution of the issue "Srbigas". The first part has already been done and will be continued. I totally agree that this should be an integral part of the so-called. "Workauta", a solution to all claims and debts in a wider range of gas consumption in the Republic of Serbia. It's the only way this will have a permanent and sustainable long-term basis. But it's not the subject of this law today and it's not the subject of this member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44860	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is proposed by the amendment, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44861	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZS has submitted an amendment to Article 4 which reads that both the name and the Article 4 are deleted. I'd like to make a constructive contribution to this debate that's had various flows, but quite the same goal, different approaches, and the next approach. The fact is that debt exists and we've determined who is what, when and how, or we'll determine in the next period who is everything and how much he owed, and we see that it's not all as pink as they say. However, it is also a fact that the debt must be returned and we would not do anything, absolutely would not have slowed that debt return, i.e. a guarantee for part of the debt, if one responsible relationship to that debt had been shown, because each man shows his responsibility to others and his family, first of all, by respecting the debt. We believe that by taking into account the debts expressed in figures that are over billions and 400 million by those, as you say the organization, or the company in restructuring, which you also claimed would be fully regulated by the end of 2015 and perhaps even before. I'd ask Mr. Minister to listen to me, I think it'll be a positive inspiration for him, that we'll understand each other for sure. So, the promise was to get rid of that restructuring completely by 2015, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44862	Time, Mr. Marinkovic, time's up, you shouldn't have wasted your time on...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44863	... I shouldn't have warned the minister to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44864	On behalf of the members and members of the 5th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, joint MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Gordana Komić, mg Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Marko Djurić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, mg Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44865	I thank Mr. Becic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers and respected guests, we have had the opportunity to hear that he is dealing with the Government of the Republic of Serbia with "Gasprom" and NIS are neither simple nor easy and I believe in it completely. But I don't believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can't see and open its eyes to reality what kind of relationship does it have to do with Serbian citizens? Is this relationship simple and easy? We have citizens who are poorer and poorer, we have citizens who don't have the money to buy medicine and bread, they're pensioners. We have citizens who are raising and teaching children in Serbia, the future of Serbia, their salaries are reduced. We've got young doctors going to cure outside of Serbia. Who's gonna treat us in 10 years? If 200m euros, due to not so easy relations between the government and Gazprom, we must pay for the debts of "Serbiagas". Why? Because apparently the government is so unsustainable that NIS or Gazprom can easily twist the government's hand and that out of the budgets that are full of citizens, they are actually making money for these companies. Then where are the interests of Serbian citizens and how and how will these interests be defended, not the interests of Gazprom and NIS? What today is the result of the government of the Republic of Serbia is not that it took 200 million away from the people, so it paid for the company, but that today's debts are ten times higher than in 2010. That's the result, and it can be funny to someone, but it's what those citizens pay for with their dignity, which is reduced and wages and pensions, it pays 55% of unemployed young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44866	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44867	I answer the question, colleagues have reported to us the list, "Petrohemia" - 23.8 billion, azotara - 14.9 billion, DP Novi Sad distribution company - 8.1 billion, Želizara - 4.7 with old Sartida debt - 2.3 billion, Kragujevac Energo - 3.8 billion, Viskoza Loznica three billion, Agroziv - 2.9 billion, Galenika - 2.8 billion, Toza Markovic - 1.8 billion, Serbian glass factory - 1.7 billion and MSK - 1.6 billion, a total of 71.4 billion and 600 million euros, from the occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44868	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44869	Article 5 reads – The settlement of liabilities to the company NIS a.d. Novi Sad will be executed by the Ministry of Finance – public debt management in line and so on. Not true, the reconciliation of obligations will be carried out by Serbian citizens neither saw gas nor felt it or spent it or heated on it or worked anywhere in any company you have read. They'll pay for it. You told the company list. Well, that's very clear who runs these companies, who ran them, and not to get into that part, that's clear to everyone. You said this payment was arranged at the highest level. Probably at the level of the president or prime minister, and then the successful government you claim to be so successful did not negotiate to say, the NIS takes "Petrochemical" or to take the azotara. When did this debt “Sartida ” occur? What time? Well, it's also some successful solution we've heard, this secret contract, we all have success, and to do the government of Alexander Vukic, it's secret contracts. Well, for Sartid, too, was a secret contract for a new management, now, which is now there. Well, we've had secret contracts for many other things. I don't know if you spoke, but the Prime Minister and many other ministers said that by the end of the year, a miraculous solution for the ISK, for the azotara, for Petrochemy, for the Paracin Glass Factory, is being solved, so they are in charge of electricity or gas. Well, there was a story about electricity, not gas. So they owe gas too, and they're an example of a successful privatisation that was made a few years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44870	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44871	Just one more sentence. The price of heating in Serbia is not cheap, therefore the heat cannot be large debtors to "Srbigas".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44872	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44873	Thank you, Mr. Minister. One question only, you said that 600 million, as far as I understood the estimated debt of 600m euros, and the claim "Yugorosgas" and the claim "Srbiagas" is a billion and 400. I'm going to suggest again what I said earlier, that you first need to level the one who owes "Srbiagas" to see their liquidity and ability to collect the debt. You told me about 600 million, they owe a billion and 100 as much as you said. They're the biggest. They repeat once again, what I said the last time I spoke to you, that I can't understand the ease with which you turn something into a public debt, and on the other hand you take down 300 million one vote in health care to Serbia. On the other hand, you do not meet the contractual obligation, the legal obligation to pay 11 billion RFO, and at the same time you are told to declare debt to ten billion pharmaceutical houses public debt, which is the equivalent of the debt of this year that you have under Article 22. The RFO. As long as I sit here and you sit here, I'll tell you that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44874	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. On behalf of the members and members of the 6th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, joint MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Gordana Komić, mg Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Marko Djurić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, mg Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44875	And, of course, Article 6 that is already in the habit, they say, that this law comes into force the day after the publication of the "Official Messenger". One speed again, no need at all, huge debts and a few years old, and it has to end in one day, or I don't know what's gonna happen. If it's the end of the year issue, why didn't we get this bill a month ago? What's the problem with waiting eight days, a fine deadline for the president of the state to think about, to get the law back, to refuse to sign it, like it did with that law where you wanted to make it possible to buy a villa on Santa. That could happen. Let me tell you, that's when the president of the state respected Mr Pavicevic's amendments and me who voted -- it was erased, every member of that law and he deleted the law. He threw it in the basket, never came back here to decide. So think again, the government's ability to show itself by saying, we see what's up with this Galenika, how a pharmaceutical house can be in debt and can't pay for gas? Is there an example in the environment? Is there an example in Europe that a failed pharmaceutical house, which was otherwise privileged on this market, had almost a monopoly. How is that possible and how did this happen? How is it that the successful government has not solved this for four years, not to mention the mentioned "Petrochemicals", the MSK Azotari, "Sartidu" etc. Prove your ability by solving problems, not by borrowing future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44876	The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44877	Thank you, Mr. Becic. So, we do not want this law to ever come into force, let alone within eight days of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", not because we argue that "Serbia" has debts, not because we do not want these debts to be returned, but because we believe that the way you do this law is essentially unfair, harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a problem that "Srbigas" is in debt, Mr Stojmirovic said, we can argue about who is guilty, and the figures speak when he owed less and when he owed more and today he owes ten times more than he owed in 2010. The problem is that "Srbigas" does not behave as a company that is in trouble. "Srbigas" is a company that shares 500 euros to employees for the company's birthday. "Srbigas" is a company with extremely high profits and "Srbigas" is a company that will not be subject to the law on paying classes. "Srbigas" is a company that Kori Udovicki does not say will be fired from it by workers, but announces discharge in health education. This is the problem, which "Srbigas" does not behave as a debt-based firm, as a company whose debts are paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but at the very least as a profitable and successful enterprise, which is divided by New Year's bonuses and which are still in debt. We will continue to have cases that you are coming to us and that you are asking us to give a guarantee of the company's duties, and that we will not know whether you will come tomorrow to ask to transfer these same debts again to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why you do it in an unfair way, and that's why I mentioned it, Mr. Becic, to the enlighteners, because there are none for them, and for "Srbigas" there is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44878	Time, thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44879	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I will continue where I left off with the previous amendment, to Article 6, we have submitted an amendment to delete both the name and the member. The reason is quite clear, with arguments and facts we want to once bring the situation into reality, and that reality is, as the minister said, that 600 million euros in debt to these big, biggest things, and then why do we give guarantees for 200 million when they have some money that they can pay back? Why did the government not decide to leave part of the debt to "Srbigas", less than 200 million, as a guarantee, i.e. a billion and 400 million for the entire amount of the debt? Because he's not sure he can secure that money. What is the objective of our amendments and my discussions is that, if I were a citizen of Serbia in charge of electricity or gas, the perpetrators would come by judgment and confiscate property, my personal belongings from the house. The state, the same one, which would do that to me as an individual and to any citizen of Serbia, is not able to take those same citizens out of the house every day, so the pensioners are part of the pensions, and, you know, they don't use gas and they don't heat up because they don't have the money to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44880	Time, Mr. Marinkovic. (Goran Ciric, from the post: By amendment and as an authorised representative of the DS, how much time do I have? ) As authorized nine minutes and 35 seconds, you can do so on that basis, but as the amendment promoter, time has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44881	We are now under the amendment to the last member of this law and we have heard a lot of arguments, but those arguments against the amendments submitted by the parliamentary group DS and the opposition parties can hardly be disproved, because there is an obvious and clear that calling for the ineffectiveness of the system from 2008 to 2011, with one single argument and with one data, and this is the loss of "Serbia" in 2010, 42m euros, loss of "Srbigas" in 2014, 400m euros, ten times bigger and no one can deny it. The second thing, since it is constantly mentioned that major mistakes from the previous era, previous regimes, previous ministers, should also be discussed, for the last three and a half years when we are talking about public debt, as the topic of this law continues to be an increase in public debt with selective adoption of the law and a selective relationship towards certain public sector creditors, "Srbigas". We said it was a dangerous precedent, and we agreed on this, and I agree with Mr. Minister that a comprehensive approach is needed in all of this, a faster process of corporateisation, the definition of assets and the way it will be resolved, and the accumulated claims of 1.4 billion euros, and the accumulated debts of 1.1 billion euros. What are the consequences for the citizens of Serbia, that is, all that concerns our MPs and needs to care for all Serbian citizens. He's worried about the minister, too, I'm sure of it. It's public debt growth. So in 2012, when you came to power as rescuers, when you said, the state was in front of bankruptcy, 15 billion was a public debt when you came in 2012, after three and a half years and said that the state was ahead of bankruptcy and imagine, already in September, then the finance minister said, "I saved the country from bankruptcy, I got a two-billion loan." And who gets a loan if it's in front of bankruptcy? So you get two billion right now and you know it and you'll definitely agree. From these first steps and moves and the first charges, we came to 25 billion euros after three and a half years, plus this 200 million euros, and with an analysis showing that we only had a non-professional reaction to the minister, and the minister was not guilty, but the previous minister, Lazar Krstic, whom the minister so praised, as a miracle, had entrusted the state with billions of euros only on exchange rates and that there was no reaction in the conversion of public debt from dollars to euro. So these are facts and nobody's talking about it. This is the effect we had in these three and a half years, and we are concerned about it and we do not say that everything was ideal until 2012, but these are facts, figures, simple figures showing status and "Srbigas" from 2010 to 2014 and status in the Republic of Serbia, especially public debt from 2012 to 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44882	I thank you, Mr. Kiriq. I hope you don't mind if I say you weren't correct. I have not interrupted you, you have warned me to violate the Rules of Procedure several times in today's debate, and you have now reported and spoken of everything and everything and not of the subject and of the amendment you have submitted. (Goran Ćirić, from the place: It is "Srbijagas"... But you spoke to Cirić as if you were speaking in principle debate, you know the principle debate when we had, you could only talk about why you didn't think the law should come into force the next day, but not to talk about public debt and all that. Just don't get me wrong, but just to understand that the debate is alive, that we have problems at some point as chairman, you have to understand that. But, look, I repeat, I have tolerated you finishing your exposure. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44883	I really thought that at all, that we were in a debate in principle, all of these general things that we've discussed 15 times the least here, that it won't happen again, but I have to tell you that this sequence, the fact that we've been put forward, absolutely ignores the key events that mark this economy in the last three or four years. So, yes, we were in a bad way. Yes, when it started, it continued to get worse like any fall, it had to extend by momentum for a while, try to turn the boat, bus or anything else, because of the inert it couldn't turn right away. And yes, we turned that around, and we did in the third quarter of 2014, we had a negative growth rate of almost 4%, and since then we have less and less, and after that, since the beginning of this year, positive growth rates per quarter, and yes, they will stabilise to 3.5%. So now you're telling me some of the facts that selectively make people think things are getting worse and things are getting better. I'm telling you professionally, I'm telling you this as a man and as an economist. We can discuss all of this if you want to go in writing, because it really doesn't make sense for citizens to feel like we're lying. Your colleague says - we speak in an unfair way, absolutely incorrectly, very honest and openly. You have the right to attack us as bearer of bad news. In history, they were stuck on a stake, murdered, etc. I accept that, that part of responsibility, but don't tell me I did this. We get this, we clean this, we don't make this. We declare this a debt, that it is that eight million Serbian citizens would pay for it, but in a fair way, not unfairly. It's unfair to say that we did this because we didn't do it, it's unfair to say that the way we organize this in an orderly civilized way, without additional interest you call it unfair. That's completely incorrect. And it confuses people completely. We're turning this around, it's that the debt is increasing, but it's also true that a large part of it is in course differences, if you show up in dollars it's a long drop. So don't make a mystification of the facts that are happening. So we're in debt for 700m euros less than we planned, because our debt is less deficits than we planned. That's the margin. We're turning that around, and to reverse the base mass, we're going to need more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44884	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law on principles and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in the principle of detail and generality. We move to the 63rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE THE SOCIETY OF GENERAL BANK OF SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE FOR THE PEACE OF THE PUBLIC ALEKSANDROVAC - BRUS - KOPAONIK - RAŠKA - NEW PAZAR - TUTIN You have received amendments to the draft law by the MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44885	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our debate on "Serbiagas". Here's what we've got now, article one. Proposal for a law regarding the granting of one guarantee again for the same company. Here in Article 1 writes the Republic of Serbia undertakes to settle the commitments of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, up to 20m euros as a guarantee. Just before, we had a debate on a bill, where 23.4 billion dinars are put as a public debt, and now a guarantee is given for up to 20 million euros. This is to me, Minister Vukovic, for a reason to tell you three things, just about the content of Article 1. First, for us, we can differ now in attitudes and opinions, but for us opposition MPs, it is unacceptable practice that the Government of the Republic of Serbia continues to issue guarantees for loans to businesses, such as "Srbigas". Here in Article 1 it writes and what is the amount. The second thing, Minister Vujovic, from the past history of business, is that only the company will not be able to repay the specified loan and we know about it all and then we will vote – let's vote again for it. And we need to add it up. It's 23.4 billion and this 20 million, so a man can get lost in those millions, billions, which is all public debt or part of a guarantee. The third thing, the payment will eventually be transferred to the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. ladies and gentlemen, MPs, taxpayers. So now we're doing something that's obviously unfair and morally unwarranted, but it's going to be accepted here. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44886	Time. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44887	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted amendments to all six members of this bill, including Article 3. Proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of a single bank and for the reconciliation of the commitments of the JP "Srbigas". Here's what it says in Article 3. He says – The repayment of the loan is made by the borrower to the bank in dinars, indexed according to the value of the euro, all in accordance with the provisions of the loan contract. I have singled out four criteria here, Mr Vujovicu, on which I am now judging and on the content of this article of the bill. The criteria of responsibility, the promoter does not satisfy, gentlemen. This is an irresponsible proposal. The criterion of justice, here I am now focusing on who is going to pay for the analysis of the content of Article 1. Tax bonds. Is that a fair solution, gentlemen? It's not. Criterion Three, the government's determination to implement reforms. Are these two draft laws, and now we're talking about this Article 3, are they a reflection of the determination to implement reforms? I don't think so, gentlemen. Criterion four, moral justification. Here, Mr. Becic, let me talk a little bit about this aspect, is it morally justified that we accept that this is now? I don't think so. We believe that this proposal is government and morally unfair, since the Republic of Serbia's budget has, we have listened to it for a few days, less money for salaries and pensions, and enough money to guarantee a company that has already taken 23 billion 379 million 767 thousand 18.82 dinars. No criteria have been met and most will now vote for it and support it. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44888	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44889	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to read article 5. The proposal for this law, I will be consistent in this approach, which means that in the amendment debate, we will, of course, talk very specifically about what it says. Here is Article 5 of what it says – Loans granted to a borrower on the basis of a loan agreement, for which guarantees under this law are issued, will be paid to the borrower’s dedicated account, which will be opened at NBS after the entry into force of this law. The funds from the accounts will be used to pay the borrower's commitments only with the agreement of the finance minister in charge. I am now, of course, going back to Article 1 to see who is the borrower - the Public Enterprise of Serbia. In what amount, gentlemen, it says in the bill up to 20m euros, and then in brackets it writes letters -- 20m euros increased by the amount of the agreed interest fee and expenses. When we add those 23.4 billion to that, what can one man conclude? That we're dealing with people who run a public company that they turned into a bottomless well. There's always money pouring in there, no responsibility for spending that money. This is where we find the words of justification. The minister is an expert man, a trained man. Of course he's gonna make it this far, so he can find some word of justification for such proposals, but these proposals don't meet the basic criteria, I mean, that should exist when we decide on legislative projects, gentlemen. To me, it's always the suggestion of such legislative projects that I should react and point to irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44890	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44891	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it has been rare for me to speak in the National Assembly like this four times in a row. It is, of course, always a pleasure to speak to me in the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly, and now, Mr Becic, about the amendments, which we People's MPs of the New Party have submitted to this bill, which is guaranteed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a borrower named JP "Srbigas". Minister Vujovic, I think this may be the last amendment to this bill and I want to make it clear once again that we believe that Article 6, as well as the previous five members, should be deleted. In Article 6, gentlemen, this law shall enter into force the following day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". There are two reasons why it was necessary for me to intervene and for this amendment. One concerns the quality of the law's contents as a whole. Not a single sentence in this bill, not a single member, not a single position of any member. I see Professor Atlagic now also confirms Professor Stojmirovic. Here comes Mr. Sertic. Welcome, Mr. Sertice. I can't wait for now to start discussing the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. We have 51 amendments here to discuss for hours, I think. The second argument for this amendment to Article 6, be careful, shall take effect the following day. It is necessary, I think, that as members of the legislative body here, we always point out to the executive authorities that there are some rules that we should follow here. The rule is that one law enters into force on the eighth day of the day of publication. Everybody knows that. Those are the rules. When the executive authority doesn't comply with that regulation and it says something about executive power, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44892	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I like two things. First, you finally learned to turn off the microphone. The other thing is, we're not doing the business chamber law, so I'm sorry. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: The minister has come. The minister wants to see you, so he's in the O.R. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44893	I thank you for the amendments to all the members of this short bill. I just need to correct some of yours, I think, incomplete perceptions here. Comparing this guarantee for a new investment and a previous debate, i.e. taking over an old debt, are two incomparable things. One problem is the past, and this is facing the future. Secondly, this is listed in Article 3 last year as a plan for this year. We are now implementing what we announced in the 2015 budget. So you knew this a long, long time ago. So there are no surprises. Thirdly, this is a common procedure everywhere in the world that the state provides guarantees for loans to public enterprises to complete the network. Here is the gas pipeline Alexandrovac – Brus – Bath – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin. Undeveloped areas and areas with tourism potential are a very good investment that will allow gas supply to these areas. I don't understand what your problem is with that. Third, under extremely favourable conditions, 2.09 is interest on this loan. So without this guarantee, interest would be much higher. So, we have this guarantee, right with this guarantee, the state is risking 20 million, but it provides "Serbiagas" with incredibly favourable conditions, so that citizens pay less and get a gas that is very important. Lastly, I have to tell you that you're confused. Article 5 refers to the use of the loan fund. Therefore, there is no interest. The funds will be put into a permanent account with the National Bank and "Srbigas" will withdraw those funds by the circumstances, it will go into debt when they withdraw, the finance ministry will give its consent to withdraw funds and there will be no interest. They'll go later on the payoff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44894	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44895	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues from the ministry, or government, I want to talk about these amendments, but I also talk about this law in a much more life-threatening way. Based on this loan and under this law, four municipalities, and the municipality of Alexandrovac, Brus, Raška and Tutin, one city, the big town of Novi Pazar and one big tourist town, a settlement, such as Kopalnik, will get gas. The “wipes” amendments delete the possibility of these people getting a more modern, normal, more decent life. If we knew it was the area, the area of the cave, where this pipeline would pass, extremely uninhabited, with these amendments, which I wouldn't be proud of, I'd be ashamed if I had signed them, life in that area is being extinguished. You want these amendments, against which SNS, that one part of life is against, and in those four municipalities, one city lives hundreds of thousands of people, that they have no decent living conditions. If it is known, and I see that the amendment promoter is snapping his finger, and I believe that now he is looking forward to the opportunity to stand up and say, "I am withdrawing these amendments," I withdraw everything bad that I said about this bill, because I think, watching this transfer, either directly or delayed, however, the citizens of Bruce, Alexandrovac, Raška, Novi Pazar and Tutin are now sending a special message to the amendment promoters. I believe that neither those seven men, as the amendment's proposer gathered in Novi Pazar a few days ago, will you have. In this way, the proposing amendment, in a beautiful part of Serbia... They're my neighbors. I live in Vranjska Banja a hundred miles from these places. Vrnjaka Banja has gas, Trstenik, the leg is separate from Alexandrovac and I know how much gas it means for the household. Knowing that this unemployment in Novi Pazar, in the mixed middle of congratulatory people, is greater than the republican average, with the introduction of this masteral pipeline, we provide opportunities for new industries, new investments, new plants, new plants and new jobs. The amendment's proposer wants to delete new jobs, wants to delete new investors and that they do not come to that part of Serbia. It's a shame. I believe that it is necessary to give the amendment's proposer the opportunity to be ashamed now and to withdraw these amendments and the criticism he brought to the expense of hundreds of thousands of people living in Bruce, Alexandrovac, Tutin, Novi Pazar and Kopalnik. Well, even when you hear that the reason, my God for such amendments is irresponsibility, so it's irresponsible not to give people a chance to live normally. It is irresponsible not to give people an opportunity to work, it is irresponsible not to give people the opportunity to come to investors, to open new jobs, to give them additional value to the beautiful end of Serbia. Now, that's irresponsible. The irresponsibility is on the amendment's proposal. Well, when he says -- there is no determination in implementing reforms, that this is a determination to implement reforms, so that such investments, such infrastructure facilities, will strengthen that part, that part of Serbia. Well, when he says, is it morally justified? Yes, it is moral, justified in a mixed environment, and I think that the national colour of Serbia, the value of Serbia to be nurtured, is to be nurtured. I believe that co-workers who earn so inappropriately are likely to disagree with these words, likely that this national colourfulness of Serbia does not suit them. That's bad. That's bad. That's unnecessary. Such messages from the Serbian parliament are unnecessary, and I think it is very morally responsible that in such a mixed environment, such as the mixed environment and in Novi Pazar, such as the mixed environment and in Tutina, we also allow these people to have a decent and normal life. To allow these people to come too, to open new plants, to employ people, and what the amendment promoter wants, for two minutes due to amendments, two minutes of public service space, to say what, that he wants to shut down life in that part of Serbia, not to allow them more decent and normal living conditions, operating conditions and yet proud of it. I'd like to go through the New Market together, and through the Alexandrian, and Raska, and Tutin, and go to the Copalnik, and talk to those people who live there. They're not easy conditions, they're cave winters, when people buy groceries, because garbage can be a few meters tall and over two meters when they can't get out. Well, imagine that these people don't at least have to think about the heat, at least not thinking about the trees they have to make, because they'll have gas to heat their houses. Well, that's what the amendment promoter wants these people to have extra trouble. Well, don't we want our Serbia, our country to develop evenly, give a message and send a message to those people to live where you were born, you'll get a chance to get a job, you'll have a chance to nurse your children. What kind of message we send to these amendments where it's better to have two minutes at public service, tell a "copy-paisy" story and tell these people -- you don't have the right to gas, you don't have the right to develop. I'm glad some people here are having so much fun, by breaking the Rules of Procedure, you, Mr. Becic, because you don't warn them, but for the SNS end around Raska, Alexandrovac, Bruce, Tutin and Novi Pazar is one of the most beautiful. We will fight to develop that end, we will fight to work infrastructure, we will fight to connect it to Corridor 11, we will fight for what is done at the Ponikava airport, as is done at the Ladjevac airport, to connect that end of Serbia to the rest of Europe and to the rest of the world. As it is made in the King perhaps the largest cargo-center in this part of our country. We'll do it that way and we don't need two minutes of glory per amendment and we don't count the amendments as victories, we count the meaning of that amendment and the meaning of the law. The purpose of this law is to enable people in this mixed environment, honest and honest people to have normal conditions for life, for attraction, for work and for survival in these areas. Do not turn off the light of these amendments in that part of Serbia, we will not let you do such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44896	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm sorry, I didn't want to interrupt you, because I think this is very important for the citizens of these municipalities and cities, to hear what you as ambassadors have to say. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: How much time do we have as a parliamentary group? You don't have time, unfortunately, Mr. Bozovic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Mr. Pavicevic, as I said, we're not going to discuss business chambers now, but we want cooperatives. I am moving to the 64th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CODES. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of the Head and title above the members and members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of the people Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 2nd amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic, MP of the people Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of the people Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted their name. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. 1 Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44897	I thank the chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group BORIS TADIĆ SDS-ZZS-ZS has submitted an amendment to Article 4(3), which reads, where after the word "racial", we have added the word "ethnic". The explanation for this amendment is – we believe that a more comprehensive definition of such a member, where we say that international cooperative principles require that voluntary and open membership which implies that cooperatives are voluntary organisations open to all persons who can use its services and who are willing to accept the responsibility of membership regardless of gender, social, racial, political and religious differences, as well as ethnic differences. The definition is more complete and comprehensive, although we are in the reasoning of the legislator of the law states that our amendment is being rejected because the text has been taken over from international cooperative principles which cannot be changed or complemented by the bill. It's a bit of a rogue formulation, and I think it's more in pressure over time because there's no such thing as an international organization. principles that can make our legislation conditional. I think you could have accepted this amendment, because you would have given it a larger base and width for the operation of all groups and ethnic groups that could have joined together. We're not talking about farming cooperatives here, we're talking about all kinds and forms of cooperative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44898	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44899	Our parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party, by amendment to Article 5(1), replaced the "registration" with the word "special register of cooperatives". The reason for that is next. The Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, Article 4, lays down the registers managed by the Agency. Since there is no specific registration of cooperatives in that law, but it is possible for the Agency to keep registers established by other laws, we believe that it is necessary to intervene with the amendment's precision of that register. In response, you gave us not to accept the amendment because it is more celibate to co-operate together with other economic operators in the single register of economic operators, which is also not entirely true, because it will not be possible for a cooperative, which is not legally a business entity like other entities, because there are certain restrictions on association, to be recognised in an easy way. More transparent and celery to run a special register, this would not make some problem in terms of increasing the administration, and would simplify obtaining valid documentation, i.e. a quality electronic form, i.e. a register, in which you could see exactly what cooperatives are and what types of cooperatives they are. I think you might have accepted that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44900	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44901	Thank you very much. Firstly, I would like to thank you for your comment on this amendment, that is, in its sense, but for the technical reasons of the Agency's operational work on business registers we could not accept, because this would mean establishing a new special register, and it is precisely defined by the law of what it means and what obligations it carries with it. What you said about what's important is that we'll definitely have it through this register of all economic operators. So we'll be able to have all the data updated on time and for that reason, and that's why it's supposed to be run at the Agency for Business Registers. But anyway, we understand what your goal was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44902	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44903	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and honored guests, and when it comes to this law, we have suggested that it be completely deleted, each of its members, because we have the right to do so as opposition MPs, for the simple reason that we have protested that we have not had time to talk about such important laws. So, here I am asking you that if you are going to have a chance to influence or to fight for yourself during the time it takes to discuss such important laws. He is very correct and he has some small things that should be improved and changed, but in any case for the next time we are really ready to talk and to use some time right now, not for these amendments, which are one kind of protest, but for a real debate that will last much shorter than all of what we eventually caused by the merger of 73 laws into one item of the agenda. So, for that reason, I ask you, because now I think it's quite clear to all of us that it's much better to use this time to discuss in principle, the time we have -- we have, it's not much, but that together with you we actually come to the right solution, because I think you've had a good will in several cases and several laws when you've adopted the amendment opposition, only that these laws would be better than they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44904	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44905	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, MPs, you know, it's hard to hear when someone says - we can't discuss this law because we haven't had enough time. I would remind the previous speaker that in the last 11 years we have several attempts to implement this law, to write, but obviously you haven't had 11 years to do so. As you can see, the government headed by Alexander Vukic wants to react quickly, in order to somehow reach that time that we lost in the past 10 years, because, in the case of the Cooperatives Act and the Chamber Act, nothing was done almost 15 years ago, the Honorable Chairman. That's why I think we don't seem to have time until the former regime's representatives get together, while they read the law, and they're just working on some improvements to make it even better, because as I said, the last model of this law is from 1998, and you've taken power in this country in 2000. By 2012, you had all the time in this world that as far as cooperatives are concerned, cooperatives try to provide something. However, we want to make it possible, through cooperatives, first of all, to represent common interests, then to facilitate market breakthroughs, and that is the goal of this government. It is our economic priority in the coming period and, of course, to meet all the obligations that are defined by this regulation. As you can see, we have time, or what little time we want to use in the best possible way, because if we act irresponsiblely, we'll get into a situation that after 15 years we say we haven't done enough. In your case, you didn't do anything. But, as you can see, the Labour Act, and the Tax Liberations and Employment Facilitation Act, and the Cooperatives Act and the Chamber Act, all this is the result and product of the Government of Alexander Vukic. I know it bothers you, but the result of all these reforms that we will have in the coming period is certainly a smaller number, i.e. an increase in employment in our country, a better economic environment, a better economic diplomacy that is important to us and certainly a better image and a better standard in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44906	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44907	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we are expected to be constructive, we also expect from the proposing representatives, and also from fellow Members to bring this job in the best way. So we didn't write amendments to make it impossible for this law to be passed, but in the best of intentions and with the best desire to make them better. Thus, in Article 7 of Article 3 of the amendment, we predicted that the word “economy” should be deleted. The reason for that is next. Article 5 The draft law provides that cooperatives cannot be organised as a company, within the meaning of a law governing companies or other forms of organisation, nor can they be attached or connected to a company or other legal person other than cooperatives, nor can they change the form and the company or other legal person. Therefore, we believe that cooperatives are not only founded to carry out economic activity, as shown in Articles 10 and 11. It's a bill of law. For example, health cooperatives provide assistance to cooperatives and family members through support for voluntary health insurance, drug procurement, financing treatment costs and other types of assistance. So this "economic" would expand the possibility of properly identifying the competences of each cooperative. The way you put it in your proposal is practically narrowing down the possibility of performing other non-economic activities. I thank you, Mr. Minister, I hope you will honor this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44908	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44909	Thank you. On the edge we suggested to delete the headquarters and the address for receiving the mail for many good reasons. We are used to reading from Mr Balinovec as secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, titles above members, unusual or usual, and here it is understood that the seats and address for mail reception are different, which is not impossible of course. But it is quite unusual for you to define with a single member that the cooperative headquarters is a place in the territory of the Republic of Serbia from which the cooperative is managed. For the seat to be determined by the founding act and delivery shall be made at the address of the cooperative headquarters, and an exceptional cooperative may have a special address for the reception of the mail to which the delivery is carried out. It's clear to me that it's because of the intention of establishing some kind of cooperative. I'll talk about it in my second draft, but if anything else is extremely unusual, you'll be able to determine in the Cooperatives Act the address to which the post office will be sent if the cooperative chooses to do so. Where he will receive the post office of cooperatives, he can resolve with or without this member of the law as a limited liability company or a company of business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44910	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44911	In general, the law has little to do with, as it is said, prejudice, I will be corrected by the lawyers if I am wrong, because with this edge, the work of the cooperative in Article 9 says - cooperative can carry out the law of the permitted activity. If the cooperative carries out illegal activities, that is not the subject of this law. I understand what you wanted. What was meant to say is that cooperatives can perform only actions defined by a member who defines most of the work, but that's not what it says. A cooperative can do the law of legal action, imagine, in any other law to say that you can only legally operate. Our general legal system suffers from these things and therefore I intervene with the amendments that, if an introductory member is already to be made, it is calculated, because another position to determine the cooperative's main activity is the type of cooperative. So you can see from the second attitude what the legislator’s position, or legislator’s position, is that he can only carry out a law of allowed activity. It's not a good enough attitude - only by this law of prescribed action, because it's also understood because it's the Law of Cooperatives. We will probably need time to narrow down the language of our legislation, to use the concepts with the exact same meaning, but if any benefit comes from this debate in particular, then let it be that those who write the proposals take account of the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44912	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the National Ambassador of the Master Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44913	This article 10, followed by Article 11. In practice, this Article 10 in the 1st and 2nd position defines the types of cooperatives, titles, i.e. rubrum and types of cooperatives. Well, he says – cooperatives can be established as farmers' or agricultural, residential, consumer, crafts, workers', student youth, social, health, as well as other types of cooperatives for the production, transport of goods, the provision of services and other activities in accordance with this law, and in a second position - education and the work of student cooperatives are governed by regulations in the field of primary and secondary education and education. It makes perfect sense for this second attitude, but in this first position, they distinguish agricultural or agricultural. I know from where there is an idea of difference, but there is no cooperative that will be established as a farm or agricultural unless there is no idea that agricultural cooperatives have only one type of activity, that is to say that they are concerned with the same application of companies with limited liability under Article 13. But then it's just not good to leave that they're agricultural or agricultural. All of these others have their own name of too much action.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44914	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Thanks. On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP of the magistrate Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 11th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44915	Article 11 defines what cooperatives are with too much work, so they are agricultural or agricultural, general and specialised and are then divided from wartime, fruit and beekeeping. Well, then, specialized farmers who organize the production of certain products, their processing and placement on the market. That's the extra one. If you let them organize the processing, then they will choose for themselves what they will do and what kind of products they will organize for the market. Residential cooperatives, consumer cooperatives, trade cooperatives, working cooperatives, student youth associations. I followed and participated very happily in attempts to pass the law and always had been the most student youth cooperative. And the problem was that the cooperative was something socialist, communist, even if what happened then was resistance, and there was always someone who wanted to stop the law on cooperatives. The last views of this article 11 are what I'm interested in, it's about social cooperatives. It would not be good for these few views that define social cooperatives to be a substitute for social entrepreneurship law, which is similar. It wouldn't be good for anyone, I just want it to be clear to those who are going to start social cooperatives and most of all because of you or anyone who is going to propose a social entrepreneurship law, because it's an important law in front of us to still be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44916	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44917	There won't be a replacement anyway. Otherwise, in January of the month as the Serbian government, we adopted the NSP Development Strategy in Serbia, so, small, medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, and there is one of those pillars that we defined different areas of definition that one of the elements is female entrepreneurship, youth entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship, for us very important. So I can expect the law by next year. So this isn't going to be a replacement. It's very important for us to edit this area in detail, and it's being inserted here just to be the basis that this can also be one of the models that's being developed in the next period. Anyway, I'm confirming what you've suggested or you've got a chill about it, I'm just trying to tell you that we're going to do anyway. I think it is very important and that it can enable some part of our citizens who, in the older, later years, remain out of work or want to try out in private entrepreneurship, to define these laws and make it easier for them to be able to do so. Very clear rules on how they will participate in the market, but also how they will behave. Anyway, thank you for your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44918	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the 11th Amendment by the People's MP of the magistrate Alexander Jerkov. You want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. You want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. You want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandra Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44919	Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 11 paragraph 12, we added at the end of the sentence to delete the point and add the words "and the law governing the prohibition of discrimination". Starting from cooperative values and principles, these objectives achieved through the functioning of cooperatives, we believe that under the term, members of endangered social groups, next to those belonging to social groups, who are in a state of social need that you put in that Article 12, is not burned, or it is necessary to add "security of the social security of citizens", should be added: "a person whose position is compromised, regulated by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination". The explanation for this supplement, which will make this member much more cellular, more comprehensive, does not lie in your explanation, in which you said that the already existing formulation meets all these needs of social groups. We know that there are, therefore, groups that are exposed to discrimination and this is one real way and a good way to put them under cover with one additional measure of protection that will allow our society to be much better than others, not to say, but to have been. I think you could accept this amendment, because it's essentially not going to change anything, it's just going to add to quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44920	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44921	I thank you, President. I will refer to what I, as a lawyer, consider to be right and be related to the position put forward by MP Komic. We usually avoid unnecessary normisation and unnecessary systematicization of standards that are too high and which, by their text or interpretation, can contribute to the not clarity of the law, not the accuracy of the law, but the opposite of all that. In particular, we have a situation where the principle of non-discrimination, as a top principle, is systematized by the Constitution. The violation of the principle as a constitutional violation also requires certain sanctions, which the Constitution also prescribes. Moreover, in accordance with the Constitution, the Law prohibiting infringements of the right to prohibit discrimination has been adopted. By putting or systemizing one such norm into this law, in particular the text of Article 11, I find it completely unnecessary and unnecessary, because we already have a sufficient number of material and legal regulations, which regulate this matter. I do not see simply the need, nor the overallity, that in this way additionally provides for a ban on discrimination, regardless of who it refers to, whether it refers to sensitive categories of socially endangered or to anyone else, the principle of non-discrimination is universal and applies to everything and are all subject to this principle, in accordance with what means equality before the law. I think in that direction, this would be quite excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44922	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44923	I understood well and your question as the promoter and Mr. Ambassador Nedja Jovanovic. I listened very carefully and it makes sense everything you say, precisely whether it is necessary to expand and detail it as a description, and that is just as MP Komic also talked about legal aspects and warring whether and how to write it to be as short as possible and as simple as possible. I agree there's a lot of work to be done on these things. I am personally prepared to accept this amendment. You MPs will certainly vote on him. He does not essentially destroy this member's idea, and the same is merely a practical expansion of what MP Neđo Jovanovic says might be excessive, but we are in the spirit of protecting all people who can have the right to their own protection. So, I accept it as such, and you can certainly define yourself as MPs, as you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44924	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 12th and of the 12th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44925	Rubrum above Article 12 is a special protection. It is a constitutional principle, there are categories, social groups or rights that are defined by the Constitution for special protection, and here it is introduced into two positions for cooperatives, and says - the cooperative enjoys special protection of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government in carrying out its most important work. It is not incompatible with the Constitution, only from a different attitude and agreed that special protection can be established with whoever we decide, or what there is money for, for which there is money to be established. Therefore, the 2nd position says – special protection under Article 1 – is reflected in the promotion of cooperatives by economic, agrarian and housing policies, as well as other development policies, including the provision of appropriate reliefs and benefits, which are determined by specific regulations, as well as the possibility of establishing specific funds (fundation), and this is an accent, a question for this position – for the development of cooperatives by local self-government units or AP or by providing funds in the budget of local self-government units, AP and the Republic. Two things are unclear in terms of special protection. As soon as it's unclear, there will be a known conflict of negative jurisdiction. When it is unclear in Serbia, everyone declares it – it is not my job and then your great intention falls into the hole. So, the fund or foundation, I understand the difference whether you want a budget fund or you want a special foundation, don't refer to the Republic in this position, there won't be money in the Republic budget, it's about the AP and the local self-government unit, and I'm not sure that's special protection. These are incentive measures. We can do this, and we don't have to, and I'm not against cooperatives being set up by incentive measures, but if this is how we establish this member who needs to either delete or formulate, because this cooperative law makes you bound by the Cooperatives Act to change fiscal policy, fiscal measures. Sorry, twelve seconds longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44926	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44927	We're in the introduction, I think someone mentioned at the beginning of this part of the debate in particular, and in principle we talked about what was the momentum and intensity of this law, and it's really a problem that we haven't had problems for many years. The task force, which was composed of a large number of experts and people involved in this work from various ministries, I think it had the key idea to describe this law better and better in order to avoid doubt, on the other hand, to show all the commitment of the state and to solve this problem. Why don't I just agree with you? Because you suggested that the whole article be deleted and I think it's a great shame to delete it, that maybe a different formulation was, so let's see what it is that needs to be changed, and I agree that any complicated large member can look better and differently arranged, but it was essential to show that everything that is envisaged and the opportunities that exist, that cooperatives are protected and that they work as well as best, better, so that in that sense this article is written and has value.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44928	A letter from Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the above members of the 13th and of the 13th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44929	Article 13 defines the same application and represents another member who allows interpretation, whenever you have a member, we are very inclined in our legislative system to have interpretation and that gives some an excuse why the law is not applied, and some come conveniently not to apply it or to apply it in the way that you want it to. It states – all issues relating to cooperatives, which are not particularly governed by this law, are applied accordingly to the provisions of the law governing the legal position of companies with limited liability. It's a member that needs to be deleted, even if I don't have that kind of intention for most of the law here, because you're going to leave who this member should apply, to assess whether the issue that concerns cooperatives is not or is particularly governed by this law. What are these issues in such an exhaustive law, and then you put the same application of limited liability companies, which you limit to companies in Article 11. where the most significant activities are defined. It's amazing how much part of a member, the wrong point in place, can create problems in the application of the law. We have testified about this for various types of law. My intention is to give this accent, just to see if anyone has made a better amendment, to make it perfectly clear who is in charge of determining that the cooperative now has to be considered a limited liability society, because it is a question that is not defined by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44930	The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and MP Aleksandra Jerkov. On behalf of Glava II and member of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Do you want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On behalf of the 16th and 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Do you want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Members of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS together submitted the 17th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44931	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 17(2). Our idea was to add, meaning to change that position 2 and add a formulation: "The founding assembly can be held and decided in full if at least half of the founders attend the assembly, not less than five." Your formulation is five, and this is also a condition for forming, that is, a founding assembly of cooperatives. They're associations in the world and they have the same principle and it's not wrong at all. But what if there are a hundred founders, and they are present as such only in this session? Then it's more logical that they have, you formulated that all those who attend the session, so you responded to this amendment, that everyone who attends are practically founders. But there are opportunities that you've given, that cooperatives can also contribute, etc., can first be five founders and later be more. So it's also more useful to have that half of the decision done, as many as there are, and not less than five. This does not change the formulation, or your proposal to be a minimum of five, as you said in the law, but this democratic decision-making capacity is being strengthened here, which would provide for the possibility that if the number of founders is greater, they can decide one half more realistically on everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44932	Just a brief clarification. This is not about classical congregations that will be dedicated to work decisions and year-on-year, at least once a year, but only about the founding assembly in which five founders are least needed, so we have practically defined that member. If there's already a number, okay, then a wider picture is defined, and if that smallest number is, then it's really time for the Founding Assembly to be present at those five joints... . (National MP Miroslav Marinkovic casts. That's just after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44933	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted their name above the 18th and Article 18th amendments. On Article 18 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party together submitted a title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted their names above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On behalf of the above members of the 21st and of the 21st Amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party Group jointly submitted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted their name above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On behalf of President III, the name above Articles 22 and 23 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Members of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS together submitted the 23rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44934	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party added to Article 23 in paragraph 4. with the amendment: "In order for a person to gain the status of cooperatives in the agricultural or agricultural society, it must be registered for the exercise of activity, which is also the work of the cooperative". That's what we were looking for. In an explanation for the refusal of the amendment, you put it to disenfranchise, because you said that cooperative rules could introduce, if necessary, additional conditions for obtaining cooperative status. Yes, but these conditions that are added in the case of agricultural cooperatives and agricultural cooperatives, which are mainly identified as a form of cooperativeship, although much greater importance of this law is for associations, i.e. cooperative cooperatives and other forms of cooperative society, we believe that this is a closer determination of a good solution, because their condition for obtaining cooperative status in an agricultural or agricultural society sets out vaguely and enables abuses of various kinds, unfair competition and so on. The formulation of the bill – dealing with business – is a broad term. In agriculture, you have a variety of jobs that come from other areas of activity, which belong to agriculture. So I think that this more precise definition would give real identification to a farming cooperative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44935	Time. Thank you. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. In the same text, Members of Parliament Balša Bozovic, MP Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted the title above Articles 24 and 25 of the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44936	Article 24 states that the status of cooperatives by joining the cooperative may be acquired by any commercially capable natural person, as well as by a person referred to in Article 23, on whom there was few words of this law submitted by written application for accession under this law and by cooperative rules. When you add this attitude, this whole member, when you look at Article 5 and Article 23's position, it is said that "the status of co-operatives of the student-youth cooperative may be acquired by a person not less than 15 or more than 30 years old" and that the last position also applies to youth cooperatives, and should also refer to the position which was just under investigation: "in order for a person to gain cooperative status in the agricultural and agricultural society to deal with a business that is defined by the cooperative's work which is governed by the cooperative rules". So, you're exempting you, and only two attitudes relating to the only student-youth cooperative, and you claim that the status of cooperatives by accession can acquire any business capable natural person. What does that mean? That they don't have to deal with the work of studying or schooling? Only if it's agricultural, then it has to have the same kind of activity that's too important to the community, and here in this case it's practically only about faces. They can deal with anything, if they're youth-student cooperatives. That was, not in this last one, but in the last one, so it caused a lot of negative comments in the debate. So either to write more clearly that it's just about accession. I asked it to be deleted because it's another place to interpret. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44937	On behalf of the above members of the 25th and of the 25th amendments, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Did you call Gordan? (Gordana Comić, from the place: Yes. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44938	And then we continue with the Act of Accession. He says, "The status of the cooperatives by joining the association is obtained on the basis of a decision to accept the accession and signing of the accession declaration". It is logical to believe that, I have read only the first point, that the accession act refers to the acquisition of cooperative status, where only agricultural and agricultural and youth-student societies are singled out, but here the difference is now lost for farmers or agricultural or youth-student cooperatives and the accession act is defined for a member who joins any society. It will be the subject of interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44939	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44940	I have already noted in the opening statement that this law treats all types of cooperatives, and in certain provisions and paragraphs of this law are defined specificities for a particular type of category, as we have here in these last two positions the status of co-operatives of the student-youth cooperatives is defined lower and upper borders according to the laws that already exist in the Republic of Serbia. As for Article 25, which is exactly what you're talking about, all rules are defined for all cooperatives. You are asking your proposal practically to delete it and that we do not have a clear picture of how it is implemented, how it should be realized and what it is legal. In any case, I think it's better tomorrow that the Ministry, as competent to interpret, than that member doesn't exist at all, and then we have a much bigger question and a way to challenge the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44941	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44942	Thank you. Article 26. speaks of what the decision contains from accepting requests to join the association. In point one, we have a request to have a personal name and residence, a unique home number of each founder, i.e. for a foreigner a number of passports, a state of issue, a number of ID cards for a stranger in accordance with the law governing the conditions for entry, movement and residence of foreigners. You have to have a handbook written down somewhere with that personal information. We already had a law where I commented that we added to which law called the Personal Data Protection Act. You have content here. I don't dispute content, but I'm slowing down that we don't have cooperatives in the Personal Data Protection Act, because they don't exist. There is no horizontal legislation. Delete, do not delete, suggest, I will not remove a problem that may potentially arise by giving you a person, a decision on the acceptance that contains personal data can, and not have to, be familiar with or work and act according to the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44943	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44944	The Data Protection Commissioner reviewed this law and did not comment on this part. We had objections in one part. I suppose by careful reading he understood that there would be no problem with this part. In any case, I agree that this is a sensitive subject and that we need to take care of how we deal with all the data that are in accordance with this law provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44945	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the 27th and member of the 27th amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Thank you. On behalf of members 28th and member of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44946	Article 29 refers to a step and I will tie it to a comment that I had about you giving personal information when you have an acceptance act. Now here you define a step forward and says: "The cooperative steps down from the cooperative on the basis of the written statement of exit and that the status of cooperatives ceases when the cooperative receives his written statement of exit, unless the cooperative rules set a deadline that cannot be longer than six months". That's not what I'm getting into. This is in line with the other members defined as necessary. "When a member of the cooperative ceases the status of cooperatives, he remains responsible for the commitments made to the cooperative." That's another topic. This is about personal data again. So, when he comes forward, there's enough signature and a statement we still don't know what's going on with his personal data from the status act. Whether or not there will be no abuse, they appear independently of whether it is precisely defined in the law, but since it will only be an important topic for our society, it is my obligation that, at least in this part of the debate in particular, I remind you as Minister whether it will be instructions, whether it will be a sublegal act, whether it will be in collaboration with the Commissioner, I do not enter into it. If we could keep that in mind together to avoid any possible complications, that would be good for everyone, I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44947	Thank you. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The 29th Amendment together includes MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44948	We have changed Article 29, paragraph 3, and we propose that in the following text there be a solution to this article, i.e. the position: "When the member of the cooperative ceases the status of the cooperatives and he and the cooperative continue to be responsible for fulfilling the mutual obligations of the co-operative status." What did we want with these? We believe that it is necessary to clearly specify the mutual rights and obligations between the cooperatives and they do not stop at the moment of the termination of the cooperative status, but must define themselves until the termination of the cooperative status, and thus we want to provide that full legal protection and one and the other entity so that they can fully exercise their rights and protect their rights as regards the rights and obligations that come into the cooperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44949	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44950	Two answers to your proposal. Your theme is identical. First in Article 29(3), he writes – when a member of the cooperative ceases the status cooperative, he continues to be responsible for the obligations created. The obligations created mean very clearly what they mean. The extended attitude that further explains this is also in Article 31, which we are about to reach. So your idea is correct but it's already described very closely in other members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44951	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together submitted the title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, the People’s MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, the People's Parliament, Susana Spasojevic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44952	On Article 32, we have submitted amendments to paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, and the following point is inserted in point 6 after the word ‘in electronic form’, and the rest of the sentence is deleted. In point 7 of the end of the sentence, instead of the point, the words “only if necessary for the exercise of the right of cooperatives” and point 8. are deleted. What exactly did we want with this amendment, or with the changes in these attitudes? In view of the information entered into the contents of the book of the cooperatives referred to in Article 3, we propose to delete the provisions that allow the publication on the Internet of these data, which is in conflict with the law governing the protection of personal data, and in particular we point out that there is no example in theory or in practice that trusts, and especially so on. other authorised persons shall have the right to see the books of the cooperatives. Since there is an institution of review, then why should the data be available, very important data that can even affect the conduct of the business policy of that cooperative? We believe that this amendment is comprehensive and that it can be respected because it protects the interest of citizens who will deal with this form of association of work that represents prosperity for their family and in the extreme line of society. This helps to strengthen these organizations, and strengthening is possible if you have certain data protected. We're adding in paragraph 7, that if it's in the interest...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44953	Time, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44954	It is very important to note here that we must put order in the business of cooperatives. It is very important for us that available data be made public, all those who should be, because everything that is written in this Article 32 is defined for all other companies. Therefore, they would make discrimination between cooperatives and companies in terms of data disclosure and information. It is very important for us especially in student-youth cooperatives that we really know who the members are, whether in years the team and how the law is defined, to avoid manipulations. And also in other cooperatives, since we've set up a wide range of cooperatives, this is practically necessary to have control as a state, to function. I understand your point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44955	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s Parliament of Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Jerkov’s MP submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Jerkov’s MP submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 36th and Article 36th in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Čomić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted their name. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44956	The arrangements for decision-making in the 36th Assembly, the Management Board’s cooperative, the Supervisory Board, are referred to as exceptions. Therefore, under Article 35(2) of the Assembly, cooperatives, boards of directors and supervisory boards may make a full decision if the sittings attend more than half of the total number of members and decisions shall be taken by majority of the votes of the total number of members present, unless otherwise decided by this law. That part of the sentence was written by the member I submitted the amendment to. Therefore, a clearly defined majority in two points is required to decide on the status changes on the sale of immovable property, the adoption of amendments and the addition of the founding act and the cooperative rules by the cooperative authority to the majority of the votes of the total number of cooperatives and to decide on the launch of the liquidation procedure by the cooperative authority to a two-thirds majority of the total number of cooperatives. You're asking these people to go into cooperative rules just like this. I'm not sure that's good. There are different solutions. It will be seen in practice, but I think we should pay attention to exceptions to exceptions, because there will be a cooperative where this simply won't be applicable. The problem is that the winding-up process is in motion or that status changes can always exist. So I understand why you've decided to define such a clear definition of a qualified majority, but I think there's going to be another interpretation or application where it shouldn't be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44957	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44958	Our wish was only to discuss the most important issues concerning cooperatives, so status changes, founding acts or liquidations in a possible case. Indeed, we do have a much larger majority needed and that act is legally stronger. That's the only reason we left. What it's going to look like in practice, we'll see in the app. If there is a real need, the smallest problem is to change some annexes later, or amendments to the law, but it is a very sincere intention to define very serious cooperative affairs and that they must be dealt with in a serious way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44959	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MP Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44960	The chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 37, we have proposed that he be deleted. The reason for this is because it defines this Article 37, the composition and competence of the cooperative assembly and it is unacceptable that investment decisions in all types of cooperatives shall be taken by the Assembly, and only in the case of residential cooperatives, which is the exception of that decision, shall be taken by the Management Board. Especially because investment decisions are essential for housing cooperatives. This provision of the bill creates a risk of corruption and abuse of rights. Therefore, given that investment acts, i.e. investment decisions, are crucial and most importantly practical in these housing cooperatives, we believe that this is the case for the sake of transparency and preservation of human rights, and we ourselves know that the most abuse was in these housing, former housing, I do not identify them, but these people are taught how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44961	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44962	Thank you. In the broad public debate we had about this law, housing cooperatives have just insisted that this member be defined as such. I understand the fear. However, if we now take all the rules and very broad obligations that cooperatives and members of the founders, or tomorrow members of the congregation, the congregation can always resolve the board of directors and that in the event of any abuses, it solves it much more effectively than before. So, in that part, we stay at this point of view as it is written.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44963	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MP Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together. Thank you. The 38th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MP Gordana Comic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44964	Thank you. Two criteria for representation are within the law. It's one thing if there's less than 20 associates, then they determine what they want. The second criterion is in Article 39, if the cooperative has more than 100 cooperatives, then cooperative rules can determine how they are represented in the congregation. In members followed by the next article 44-45, which I will have a question or comment on. Here we have a definition of the members of the thin line between what applies to companies, companies with limited liability and cooperatives. And otherwise, through the law, we have this problem that we're not sure how much we want cooperatives to look like limited-responsibility societies or companies, or we don't want them to look like us. What does this 100 cooperative criterion mean, or 20 cooperatives? The minister's right, it'll show practice. I was inclined, and I remained inclined to make cooperatives look as small as possible to the company as possible. It is the idea of cooperatives in modern European practice, but I know how difficult it was to bring all the stakeholders together. Then everyone's pulling to know what a company is, so we'll be like that. Unfortunately for me, I'd like to be wrong, I'd really like to do this from the bottom of my heart, but I'm afraid that after the problem of applying this law, we're going to go back to a bill on cooperatives that's as far away from companies as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44965	Thank you. The 39th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Marinkovic and nine MPs of the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 39th amendment. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44966	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 39, paragraph 6 is deleted. The reason for that... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: There is no Mark again. ) (Gordana Comić, from the place: If there is a throw, can I? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44967	Please, Mr. Babic and Mrs. Comic, don't throw it away. Let your colleague Mr. Marinkovic finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44968	I'm begging you, here, I'll spend my time, but I have to say, we're making every effort to be constructive and make this law as much as possible. As we are expected not to obstruct, so do I. I'm very sorry that someone who shouldn't be involved in this is involved. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44969	Mr. Marinkovic, I'll take your time. I apologize to you, but I didn't want to interrupt you by warning the messengers who were throwing away, but I ask all the messengers to listen carefully. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44970	Not necessary, but I expect and appeal to consciousness. In Article 30, why is it deleted? We consider a dangerous and bad solution to the legislator, which requires that, exclusively from the 3rd position of this member in residential and student youth cooperatives, which have more than a hundred members, representatives can decide on all issues, if this is foreseen by cooperative rules. So this amendment of ours is similar to the previous amendment, and that fear is not without reason. The time we have spent in this world gives us the right to say that we know the various forms of this cooperative and youth cooperatives and housing cooperatives. It gives for the right to have fear and doubt. I wish I were wrong, and I wish you success with this member, because that would mean we've changed our minds. However, that is not the case, unfortunately, not only in this country, but also in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44971	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44972	I always advocate much stricter control than any state authority in the control of what companies do, and future cooperatives and existing ones as well. However, we had to make a certain kind, not a compromise, but to meet those who had real problems and who, during the debates and in agreement, proved in concrete cases. As I said earlier in the previous position, we will be able to change that if we actually come to serious abuses in practice, but we are working on all system institutions working, to increase the awareness of our citizens, and this should be as some kind of role in the future for all that cooperatives are doing, and we will certainly talk together here in the Assembly if there are any problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44973	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44974	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, I have to say a surprise when I heard the MP draw attention to the need for someone not to participate in the debate, especially someone who really shouldn't be involved in the debate, because I didn't really understand what it was about. But in any case, I believe that with full capacity every MP has both the right and the opportunity to participate in the debate, which I am doing now. I draw attention to the fact that the mechanisms of protection against alleged caution here are already existing and that they should in no case be affirmed, and especially not in the sense of fear that there may be some abuses. On the contrary, I am convinced that even underlaws, additional questions, which may not be covered here, will be regulated far more systematically. But what I want to draw attention to is a little bit of going back chronologically. If we're going to talk about protection mechanisms and talk about how abuses are prevented, then let's start with something that needs to be an experience, especially for a law like this, because it's cooperatives and it's agricultural cooperatives. I will only remind myself that because of the lack of good laws, reform laws, poor staff policies, poor organisation, 170 agricultural cooperatives were shut down from March 2010 to October 2011. I repeat, a very short period in just one year, 2010. Why? Because we didn't have good system solutions. Because we didn't have a good regulation, which we're now forming and with which we're now affirming cooperatives in the best possible way. The second absurd that existed during that time period is the absence of so-called "no". cooperative property. What was absurd is the fact that neither the property owners were cooperatives nor cooperatives. Why? Because of the fact that social property was recorded in the catastra precisely in the period 2009, 2010 and 2011. Now I ask you – how is it possible to book social property and register social property when it is property by the difolt property of the cooperative, and in 2006, we eliminated social property, by the Constitution. So social property did not exist, but in 2009, 2010 and 2011, we had social property as cooperative property. A paradox, which simply could not exist, but existed. The next fact I point to for the sake of the citizens is Vojvodina, and this is what I owe from the political principle to point out, because yesterday here in the Assembly, we had tirads that related to the Agricultural Land Act, I'm not going to step away from the topic. So we had here the behaviour of the MPs of the people who are falling away from every measure of normal and not to say, the cultivated behaviour of the MPs, with the hints of a recent arrest, and a lot of other things. What was going on in that same Vojvodina? Eighty - five percent of the land that was supposed to be the land of agricultural cooperatives was not registered to agricultural cooperatives. Just to remind myself, that some 1,000 and some cooperatives were destroyed in Serbia from 2000 to 2010. Why? Because the destruction of cooperatives was determined by the Privatisation Act, which was passed after 2000. It was brought in in a time period when the SPS did not even support any government such as the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Statistical data suggests that around 800 cooperatives were founded in Serbia, of which close to 700 in Vojvodina. Four hundred cooperatives were founded in a short period in Vojvodina about 2010, 2011. Of those 400 cooperatives, the question of how much does it work, how much does it work, how much does it work? What were they founded for? Whether they're based as dead letters on paper, or not. This is the data. These are facts that are verifiable. Now the question arises whether we should fight for these same farmers, especially those so-called. small farmers who should have realised their rights and interests within cooperative associations and cooperatives, thus enabling their business and business to accelerate agricultural production and everything else, where political propaganda and marketing are now insisting on. Offered to everything that happened yesterday, for the sake of the citizens, these facts are irrefutable and must be presented. Due to the lack of cooperative audit, and in this law, we have a cooperative audit institute, none of these 400 cooperatives in Vojvodina have been controlled. None. How, then, could such cooperatives ever be asked? I'm not going to talk about privatizations that are generally known in public, how they ended up, where these cooperatives are now, where their assets, who are now at their disposal, I'm not going to talk about tycoonisation, I'm not going to talk about anything else, which is known to the general public, but it happens in that period. And then someone will come here yesterday to criticise the Law on Agricultural Land, not to refer to the provisions of a once absurd law that has conditioned, which has not been changed, all of this I'm talking about, and the Law on Privatisation and then the applicable Law on Cooperatives. In the end, I have to remind myself that in 2010, whether the citizens are sleeping or watching this right now, a very important fact, the income from cooperatives, I'm talking about all the cooperatives, was 1.3 million dinars. The loss of 1.8 million dinars, and from 2005 to 2010, 50% of cooperatives showed a loss for each year. Therefore, distinguished ministers, these facts and these data suggest that we will now not call anyone to arrest, that we will in no way speak to the dictionary that was spoken here yesterday, but that is why we support you in passing a law that restores trust in cooperatives. I mentioned it as something equivalent to bad, even nakaradian. Therefore, all that is put into cooperative rules here, all that is systemically resolved, only by citizens and those who are defined to be cooperative, can accelerate the thinking that this law will contribute to the non-devast of agriculture, to the non-devasting of villages, to small or small producers get together, to serve their needs, to achieve their goals through cooperatives, and then we will succeed in something that is also the goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44975	Thank you. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Marinkovic. You have no right, and Mr. Jovanovic didn't... (Marinkovic, from the scene: Please explain to him. I'll explain. Surely he doesn't understand you well, because you didn't think the MPs had the right to answer, but you didn't expect to be distracted from this side of the show, you might have expected it, but you didn't expect it from this side, and that's why it reacts. And that's your observation that you didn't expect to be distracted by the opposition. Thank you. National MP Milan Novakovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th Amendment, MPs Gordana Comic and eight DS MPs submitted together. Thank you. The 40th Amendment was filed by the People's MPs, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 40th amendment was submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Markovic, together submitted the title above the members and members of the 41st amendment. Thank you. Members of the 41st amendment were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The amendments in the same text were brought together by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and together Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, mr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44976	Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment to Article 41(2) that we have provided for to delete and this amendment has a role of agreeing with Article 37, or the amendment that we have submitted to Article 37. Normally, all of these improvements that we want to make are in the sense that this cooperative lives and that in one form, such as agricultural cooperatives that used to be called SRZ, the socialist war cooperatives that founded their assets on the taken-off land, the agrarian reform from 1947, which was returned by the Law on Restitution and Return of Assets, and thus those cooperatives failed because they owned 70 years of other people's property. I have to say this because it's my debt to my ancestors and to all those who have lived unjustly without all of it in extreme misery in order for someone else to create capital through those forms that were called SRZs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44977	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 42nd amendment, MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic and eight DS MPs submitted together. The 42nd Amendment was filed by the People's MPs, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Both MPs Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs submitted to the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment. Thank you. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 44th Amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP Aleksandra Jerkov, and joint MPs Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs submitted. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Goran Ćirić and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. The 45th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the DS submitted together. Thank you. The 46th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 47th amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 47th Amendment. Thank you. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The National MP Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragomir Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 49th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 50th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the DS submitted together. Thank you. The 50th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs submitted. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 52nd amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter V, the title above the members of the 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MP Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, to article 53. Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Marinkovic and nine MPs of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 53rd amendment. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've proposed, on Article 53 of Section 3 and Section 5, that they be deleted. The reason for this is that the assets of the cooperative are already in cooperative property, it states that the position of the 1st member, and Article 5 states that the assets achieved by the sale of immovable property, cannot be shared with cooperatives and employees, nor are they paid to those persons on the basis of membership in cooperatives, roles or labour rights. However, in addition to this banning norm, the legislator was obliged to standardize for which purposes these funds could be used, for anything else that was not written here. Then it's written. I apologize for performing this way, but we think that you should have put on what these funds can be used for, because by limiting the fact, it doesn't mean that other things, which are not suitable for this form of association, or organization, can be used.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44979	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44980	We were very precise and precisely in the protection of cooperativeism and its revitalization and we defined in a member that any sale of property could not be misused. In some ways, it's an abuse for you to sell some of the property and share it, those assets you get, to the cooperatives, rather than to be invested in the development of cooperatives. The question is more how you read it, but it's legally very clear. So what it says, it can't and it's exactly written on the items, and everything else is allowed, and we can't write now -- it can be used for that and that, because that palette is broad, what can be the interest of cooperatives to improve their business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44981	Thank you. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 54th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Marinkovic and nine MPs of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 54th amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 56th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter VI. and Article 58 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MP Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs. Thank you. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 58, by a new member of 58a, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th Amendment, National MP Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragomir Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic together. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 59th amendment. Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 59th amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 60th amendment. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter VII, the name above the 61st and the 61st Amendments were jointly submitted by MP Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 64th amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight members of the DS submitted together. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 64th amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 65th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 66th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter VIII, and Article 67 of the amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of Head of the IX, and Article 68 of the amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the above members and of the 69th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight DS MPs submitted together. Thank you. National MP Milan Novakovic submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On behalf of the members and members of the 70th Amendment, MP Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the DS submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of members 71 and Article 71, the amendment was jointly tabled by MPs Goran Ciric and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On behalf of the above members and in Article 72, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On behalf of members 73 and Article 73, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On behalf of members 74 and Article 74, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 78th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment of the 82nd. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and nine MPs from Boris Tadic's group. Mr. Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44982	The chairman, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we, by amending Article 82(2), tabled an amendment to the amendment that reads - a regular cooperative audit is carried out once a year. Since we have, let's say, a new kind of organization and functioning in a commercial sense, we think it's necessary for this revision to be once a year. You've made the decision to have her once every two years upon request for cooperatives. You know, it may happen that you have a formed cooperative that will function for six or eight months, and unfortunately our history is packed with these examples and that after that, one year and a half to gain a reputation, to take some capital, disappears. I understand that there is a legal regulation that can solve this, but once a year's control is a benefit primarily for cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44983	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 83rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 84th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 86. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 87. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 89th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 90th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 91st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 93th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 95th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 96. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 97. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 99th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 101st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment, which added new members 101a, 101b and 101v, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 102. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted an amendment to Article 103. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 104 by the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44984	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 106 following Article 4, a new position of 5 is added, which reads - existing cooperatives and cooperative alliances that do not comply with their organisation, business and general acts with the provisions of this law within the time limit set out in Article 2 of this Article, shall be deleted by official duty from the register. You wrote in response to this amendment that the article 63 was already resolved, yes, but that's where the liquidation is written. We're talking about cooperatives that should practically reregister that already exist. I don't think we understand each other, i.e. that it is so responsible for intruding, because here some existing cooperatives and cooperative alliances are given a deadline, which could comply with their documents within two months, i.e. administrative acts and are based on them to reregister, i.e. They're registering as new cooperatives, and there's no liquidation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44985	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44986	The existing cooperatives must coordinate their business in accordance with this law and it is defined exactly what you propose to define in Article 106, in Article 63(5). So the forced liquidation is being initiated, so it says, unless it's organized according to this law, the cooperative rules and principles. So very clearly defined that those cooperatives that do not do so within the time limit that the law provides, go into liquidation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44987	Thank you. On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Pralica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 108th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 108th Amendment, in the same text, were together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karić and MP Zoran Pralica. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44988	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 108, we have provided for attitude 1 and attitude 2 to be deleted. The reason for this is that, it is unacceptable that, in accordance with the law on the conversion of social property on agricultural land and other forms of property on which it has been built and constructed, a confirmed list of land in social property, in accordance with the law on the conversion of social property on agricultural land and other forms of property, ‘RS Official Messenger’, No 49/92, 54/96 and 62/06, which is registered on the basis of certain documents as social property in the public register of immovable property and rights above, on the request of the cooperative which is registered as having the right on that land, the cooperative property shall be entered without re-evaluation of the right of establishment by the competent authority for the registration of the right of immobility. These views close the possibility of abuse and the possibility of obtaining property rights to real estate without any compensation, thus putting cooperatives in a more favourable position than other legal entities. Please at least answer me if you don't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44989	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44990	I made it very clear when the law was discussed in principle and said that one of the key results of this law was to resolve the issue of property, cooperative property. We have not been able to resolve this by previous laws, nor has this law that you are calling upon by the Law on Turning Social Property on Agricultural Land into other forms of property, provided at all the possibility that the cooperative would enter on itself property. So this is all about the legal-terrestrial affairs that have been proven, which are as such listed in the catastro. So the whole process of checking is done. So what's already being checked is being entered, everything else is going as state property and we've cleared it up. It's a key provision that allows cooperatives to work much better in the future, to be in debt with banks because they have real property in their possessions. I think that was a common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-23-0.u44991	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The amendment, which adds a new member of 108 after article 108, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Novakovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the People's Messengers for their participation in today's debate. I thank you, Mr. Sertice, for you and the members of your office. Resume tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. At nine o'clock questions, then the Chamber of Commerce Act, the amendment to that law. I suppose you'd like to continue on about the chambers of commerce, but I promised.
