ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32828	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32829	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to address the question, i.e. to ask the Ministry of Energy and Mining and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and on behalf of the citizens of the Serbs who have a problem with the NIS. In the suburbs, i.e. the last houses in Srbobran, work on the wells is being done, i.e. the preparatory work on the wells on which the heavy machinery of NIS works. This equipment works 24 hours a day, with great noise, dust, and there is traffic of heavy machinery through the village itself, leading to damage to individual houses. Citizens asked that these works should not be carried out at all in a populated place, but since this was not an enforceable requirement, it was to repair noise, or to reduce noise, dust, and to stop the traffic of heavy vehicles, especially at night, practically in the period from 10:00 to 7:00 in the morning. Normally, and to respect the damage, i.e. legally to compensation for damage to the houses that occurred during these works. Several meetings have been held between NIS representatives and citizens, but citizens say what was agreed on at these meetings was not met, i.e. It was respected for a few days and then it went on like old times. The citizens practically, due to the inability to solve this problem in any other legal way, began with peaceful protests. Some 50 citizens staged peaceful protests on three occasions on June 23rd and 24th by sitting outside the entrance to the courtyard where these works took place. All these protests were properly reported to the police and were certified in the municipality. On the other hand, NIS says they have the permission and consent of state authorities, that they hold meetings with local self-government and with citizens. The question is how have all the citizens informed about the works they will perform and what effects these works will produce. It's now a question mark, and that's what I want to get between myself and the answer. As a next step, since they obviously couldn't agree, NIS referred the charges to 10 addresses for obstruction of works. Even citizens say some have won no part of the protest at all. Normally, after all this, the citizens are bitter, feel completely powerless and unprotected and no longer know who to turn to. I'm practically taking this opportunity on behalf of the LSV parliamentary group to ask what to do with these citizens, because, they say, NIS behaves like a state in the country. The hearing on this problem, or according to these charges, is scheduled to begin in September. It is most likely that the epilogue, they say, will be that these charges will be withdrawn at the first hearing, as they say the NIS is only significant until the process ends that citizens have no right to access, or that they cannot organise any more protests and that they end their work in the meantime. Practically, this is how they buy time. In order not to receive information from the media and the newspapers, as it has also been written in the media, to help citizens get an answer to their complaints and to get help, to what extent it is possible to obtain, ask the Ministry of Energy and Mining and the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment in this case, i.e. to examine the allegations in this case and to answer how and how they can help citizens. I would like to remind myself that the NIS company that opened its first representative in Brussels in 2011 with the aim of following, they say, the EU directives and regulations in the field of energy, reducing emissions of harmful gases and protecting the environment. In this case, the question arises - where are ordinary people, or citizens, our neighbours and their right to a safe and clean environment and how can they exercise their rights and not feel so powerless in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32830	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32831	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to ask my first question today to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State Administration and local self-government. This is the third or fourth time since the beginning of the year that we've been trying to get data on what the total duties of the city of Novi Pazar are. Meanwhile, while we were waiting for answers to that question, in the last three months, only a debt based on the credit debt of the city of Novi Pazar has increased by 700 million. I have warned several times, and I am doing so today, that the debts of the city of Novi Pazar are one red alarm and that, according to our data, they account for over three annual budgets of the city of Novi Pazar. To make such a debt, according to the law, there had to be government approval. Now I ask again - who, on what basis, has allowed so much debt and what guarantees have been given for this borrowing of the New Market City budget, and on what basis are these bank loans being taken today and consciously pushing the city into bankruptcy? We're about to have a local election. The ruling majority began with some cosmetic makeup of the city. Here is the question - does it even make sense to participate in these local elections and what after them because the city, by the height of these borrowings, is in emergency condition and the town of Novi Pazar is long ago bankrupt and yet has yet another difficult situation, which is that unemployment in this city is two and a half times the average of the Republic? The second question today is to refer to the Minister of Justice in connection with the bankruptcy procedure of the ‘Raška’ textile combination, which is carried out with unprecedented illegality, organized fraud and robbery of workers of this combination. We were contacted by workers of the company and their representatives, to point to numerous abuses in relation to the bankruptcy judge. Namely, the bankruptcy judge of the Court of Commerce in the Kingdom appointed the trustee from the area of jurisdiction of the second Court of Commerce in Nis, in violation of Article 20. The bankruptcy law. The same bankruptcy judge allowed the account of a creditor to be opened also outside Novi Pazar, so the account was opened instead of in Novi Pazar - in Nis, and the bookkeeping services for this holding company are being, instead of in Novi Pazar, taken to Aleksinc, where the accounting agency in Aleksinc collects one-off, astronomical prices for its services, and all of this from bankruptcy, or translate into folk language -- from money from the funds belonging to the workers of this textile combination from Novi Pazar. I'm looking for an explanation, who and why allows these illegalities, and why is this the way to take the money of workers from Novi Pazar and to crucify all over Serbia? Such criminal privatisations, as well as the racketeering carried out by various inspectors, party hawks on the ground, and with the systematic destruction of the New Pazar city budget, Novi Pazar is slowly killing himself and today it becomes a place from which everyone, especially young people he has most, can't wait to leave. Novi Pazar is the only city in Serbia in which the bankruptcy manager, but other officials, are also bringing the most frequent past the law, past all procedures and criteria from various Serbian cities. While money is being sucked out of this textile combination on one side, three thousand workers are out of work, and out of 1,450 employees' trust requests, 800 were rejected with a reason that they came from the dependent companies of this textile combination whose property was first taken away, held in the possession of the holding company, and then let down with the workers. If I have time left, I'll state a few more examples later of how through illegal releases of business premises...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32832	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32833	... And the electricity bill takes the money, but I'll talk about it another time. I ask you, President, to insist that you answer these questions within the time limit provided for by this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32834	Mr President, thank you very much. It's been a while. I urinate every time you say it. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32835	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to refer my first question to the Ministry of Sports and Youth. In order to be as clear as possible, I'm going to read a very short biography of athletes. I guess there's gonna be a lot of athletes in this biography. "My name is Dunja Žeravić Lalic. I was born in 1988. I am a member of the Karate Club "Somborac" from Somboro and a senior representative of Serbia in karate. I've been training karate since 1992. I've been through all sorts of selections and won many medals in the state, Balkan, Mediterranean and European championships. I'm a winner of many awards and confessions. The most valuable results are bronze medals won at Europe's senior championships in 2008 and 2013. Compared to my sports representative obligations, I ended up in the prime and master of the judge at the Faculty of Economics in Subotica. Based on the results achieved in 2013, I received a sports scholarship and was ranked top athlete, credited athlete of the Republic of Serbia. In the first part of the season of 2015, I will be absent from sports resorts and train as a recreational because in June of the month I am due to be realized in a new role, I will become a mother. My plan is to recover quickly and return to the sports field. I received information that I was removed from the list of scholarships proposed by the Karate Federation of Serbia, with an explanation of the Karate Federation that my name was deleted from the list to insist on the Ministry of Youth and Sports because I do not meet certain criteria. “ Certain criteria are that this young lady will remain in a different condition, and soon, if God does, she will have a child. As an MP, as president of the Sports Federation of the city of Somboro, as a former athlete and as a man, Mr. Widowic, I ask you to make a little effort because the public debate under this law is not yet over and to correct this injustice against women in sports because this is a classic form of discrimination. My question is clear – will such a surreal member in the law correct the future law on sports, especially at a time when we are talking about the white plague? My second question is to ask the Ministry of Education. On the basis of what law do teachers and teachers who take their children on a field trip or a recreational course establish their journals? What scale determines the height of the diaries? Does a teacher have an obligation to take his class on field trips or recreational classes without a living room? In many schools, and especially in Belgrade, it has become a real market. Our parliamentary group believes such a javelin should stand in the way. Parents ask nothing, and from informal conversations, even with people from the ministry, I'm told it's the most classical form of corruption, but apparently some educators answer, and many don't wake up to blame their colleagues. It must be found, simply, a more precise legal solution to this problem. This little time left, I would like to dedicate to "Proteinka" Public Enterprise, known as the Cafilarium, in Sombor. I don't know what we're supposed to do anymore, and my colleagues from Somboro and I are here to solve this problem. Is it supposed to be an ecological disaster or should it be that people organize themselves and solve this problem in a different way? I urge once again, please, I urge the people of the Ministry of Agriculture to spend one night in Somboro and see what kind of problem we're facing. In every other normal country, in the countries of the European Union, some of the people responsible for this would have gotten criminal charges, and the factory would not be talking about ending it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32836	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32837	Dear President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question has been addressed to the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. It concerns workers who were employed in restructure companies or who were employed in companies that no longer exist because they were sold several times, went into bankruptcy and were then privatised from bankruptcy, and these former employees have executive court rulings for back-to-back earnings. I've already asked this question here in the Assembly once, and unfortunately, I haven't received an answer to that question. That's why I'm setting him up now for two ministries that should give a clear answer. Will the Republic of Serbia's budget provide funds for workers who have executive court rulings for residual earnings to resolve the problem? There was also a problem with the integration of labour force for workers who were in firms in restructuring. The Serbian government reached a conclusion on July 18th this year in which the workers will be associated with the work experience. The conclusion is on the Ministry of Industry website and all those who are in the problem and who are interested can clearly see how they can solve their problem. So once again, I ask, first of all, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour and Combat Affairs to send me an answer to this question as soon as possible, and to deal with this problem, because it is tens of thousands of people all over Serbia, and it is also a serious sum of money. My second question was addressed to the Ministry of Interior and to Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, a resolute minister, and it concerns one problem that we honestly thought was behind us, and this problem was mainly about the registration of agricultural machinery, which concerned the registration of tractors that peasants drive throughout Serbia and who were 20 years old and who were previously bought in IMT, which in IMR, or Rakovica. Unfortunately, people no longer have bills from those tractors and there was a problem with the registration of these machines. The problem was solved by the ministry by the adoption of a regulation on how these connected machines and tractors can be registered and now the problem is being solved. An additional problem has arisen and it concerns trailers both for tractors and trailers for passenger cars, buses and vans that currently cannot be registered in Serbia at all. It's an interesting case, and I'm a driver myself. We bought trailers for passenger cars perfectly normal in sales places. We had registered not those trailers, and now that registrations have expired in the MUP say – gentlemen, you can't register them anymore, but for these trailers you have to bring in the attachés of the engineering colleges from Belgrade or Kragujevac. Now you tell me, how am I now, for the trailer I bought at the mall, got the papers seven, ten or more years ago, registered multiple times at the MUP, now again for that same trailer to go to the engineering college and look for certain atheists? I simply don't understand, neither do I, nor thousands of drivers across Serbia who came up with such a way that you simply can't register in a practical way one trailer that serves you to carry a load, I say once again, for both passenger cars and buses, vans and tractors. They're trailers that, unfortunately, when people get on the road with a flight now, the police write them tickets for unregistered trailers, and they don't have any way to register those trailers. Please, the Resort Ministry finds a way to address this problem urgently because this problem is plagued by peasants, drivers, citizens of Serbia throughout our beautiful country. Once again, I ask the minister to address this issue and to resolve this matter immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32838	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32839	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests, what is the issue in front of the DS parliamentary club is the subject of migrants and in the case of southern Serbia, i.e. Presevo and when it comes to the city of Belgrade and when it comes to the north of Serbia, i.e. the municipality of Kanjiz. We ask the MUP of the Republic of Serbia if it can provide us with a phase report for this part of the year, April, May, this year for the simple reason that in these two municipalities and in this city we have something that might look like a humanitarian disaster. What is the plan of the Asylum and MUP Center when it comes to solving this problem by the end of 2015? In line with this, the DS commends all those humanitarian organisations found themselves in this disaster and in this distress that helps every day all ages and all migrants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. With this in connection and the DS itself will organise today at 1800 hours one major action from today in Belgrade, for the next few days in the rest of Serbia, when it comes to providing enough water to supply water because the temperatures are so high, and as we know many children are exposed to very inhuman conditions of life. Thank you also to those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have pointed out in this problem and who have done their best to show solidarity and illuminate the country's face of course. We call on all companies, all water and food producers to join this big action as well. We're calling on all NGOs. We call on all political organisations, all religious organisations to meet and help people who are currently in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and to meet in accordance with their religious beliefs whoever they believe they are. We think this is a big problem, and we think it's very important for the state to deal with this problem in one responsible way. We have on several occasions suggested that, among other things, the city of Belgrade, which, given the infrastructure and the strongest individual city and centre that is meant in Serbia, organise a committee that would follow this problem, which would propose solutions, which would even have some executive powers in which all the political organisations that are in the Belgrade City Assembly would participate because I think both the Serbian Ministry and the Asylum Centre would be of great help when it comes to this problem. We didn't come across the support of the city of Belgrade. They felt that the Ministry and the Asylum Centre were doing well in their responsibilities and their work. We are concerned, with more and more people, not only in downtown Belgrade but also in Kanjiza, Presevo, who are situated in the central areas of the city primarily in parks where they are carrying out all their needs in the open, public. We think it is very important, so that there is no humanitarian disaster in Serbia, that all plans are delivered by the end of the year and that all phase reports are delivered for April, May and June this year. This is a very important question, and once again we invite everyone to join it. We believe that Serbia must be solidarity when it comes to any man who is in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32840	The word has a folk ambassador, Dejan Nectarijavić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32841	Honored presidents, dear colleagues, local self-government is tasked with enabling and improving the functioning of all state institutions and public services in order to maintain and improve the quality of life of all citizens on their territory. In this regard, the Smederjevska Palanca municipal administration should also use its competences and rights for the best functioning of all segments of the life of Smederjevska Palanka residents. The current situation is not the case because Radoslav Milojic, a senior official of DS, is named Kena. The situation is unbearable and has been going on for many years as such, and it is seen in total indifference and a non-domestic attitude towards the municipality and its obligations. As the total debt of the municipality for 2012 amounts to a billion and 925 million dinars. The debt for 2013 is a billion and 869 million dinars. The debt until 30 June 2014 is a billion and 967 million dinars. This debt does not include the second half of 2014 and 2015, which is ongoing, as well as the commitments made on bank loans. All of this led to the blockade of municipal accounts for over a thousand days as well as the blockade of water and other public enterprises' accounts, health homes, school and preschool institutions. All this data has been downloaded from an official report by the DRI, which is now on the Committee on Finance of the Serbian Parliament. All this haughtiness, seen among other things in the restrictions, leads to a drink of over ten hours a day. The absence of street lighting for months over the last winter due to a debt of 800 million dinars. Destroyed protective facilities from floods, destroyed streets and sidewalks, harmful alienation of natural resources, thermal mineral water and other state property, for example, the House of the Army. Uncontrollably cutting off a hundred-year-old forest, a city hospital spa complex. In addition to the general commitments so far, the intention of municipal leadership headed by the municipality's president, Radoslav Milojic Ken, is to charge the municipal budget of the new 150m dinars, through the emissions of securities of value, and all for the achievement of personal interests. Probably because football sport is being spent on 60 million dinars a year. The State Audit Authority carried out an audit of the operation of the municipality in 2012 and identified a whole series of irregularities, offences and criminal offences that caused it to file a series of criminal charges whose outcome is unknown. Unfortunately, all of us, the current government headed by Radoslav Milojic, called Kena, the president of the municipality, Petro Jelic, vice-president of the municipality, Slavoljub Đurić President So, Zivko Petrovic, deputy president of SO, leads this municipality to ruin by his pride and ignorance. I ask the question of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to what extent is it familiar with the problems of Smederevska Palanka Municipality and how does it intend to help the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka who is practically in bankruptcy and without exit? Thanks to an interesting group of people headed by the municipality of Ken, Pera, Djura, Zivko. I urge the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia to carry out all investigations to ensure that those responsible for this catastrophic situation of our municipality are discovered and processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32842	Thank you, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Milena Ćorilić, Branko Ružic, Đorđe Cabarkapa. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the Law on Air, Railway and Water Traffic Research. I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Transport, Miodrag Poledica State Secretary at the Ministry, Zoran Ilic, Nena Tomovic, Leposava Sojic, Deputy Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Construction, and Mirjana Cizarov Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received reports from the committee responsible and the Government's opinions on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Ivanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable President Gojkovic, respected Mrs Mihajlovic and respected guests from the ministry. I now have one regret, Mrs Gojkovic, for your earlier actions, here Mr Janko Veselinović, is here, it is true that in a hasty way he forgot to put his card in the unit, but I believe it was my turn to make it possible for MP Janko Veseinović, Madam President, to explain his amendment because it was his will and intent...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32844	You're wasting your precious time on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32845	... But I think it's worth spending one minute to explain why Mr. Vesenovic should have been given the opportunity to explain his amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32846	Let a colleague decide whether he's in the O.R. or not, you're just fine about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32847	... In the hall is Mr. Veselinović, here we see. All right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted nine amendments to this bill, which, on behalf of the Government, defends Minister Mihajlovic. Dear gentlemen, none of the nine amendments of MP Zoran Zivkovic and none of my nine amendments, which are in the same text, are accepted, gentlemen, and I must declare Minister Mihajlovic a dissatisfaction. Here, here are some applauses, but when it comes to dissatisfaction, gentlemen, I don't think it's the right thing to say for dissatisfaction. That is why we, honourable gentlemen, will try to convince the MPs during today's debate to convince both Minister Mihajlovic and the MPs, most of them here, that they still need to accept our amendments. I would especially like to point out here now one thing that can describe a paradoxical situation in which we are, where SNS MPs, Mrs Mihajlovic, for example, have a common grudge as to why you two New Party MPs often submit amendments – "is deleted", and then some of these amendments are accepted...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32848	You've been on time longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32849	... Yeah, yeah, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32850	It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32851	So, amendments - deleted will be accepted Mrs. Mihajlovic did not do this, but she is the governor of the National Bank, to inform you Mrs. Mihajlovic, Mrs. Tabakovic accepted our amendments – is deleted. Members of the SNS say -- don't "wipe" us won't accept it, it's accepted, we now submit nine amendments where none is -- is erased, gentlemen. All nine amendments have a certain text that is not – deleted and then the minister does not accept such amendments. And now I just want to show here that one paradoxical situation, one contradictory situation in which the SNS MPs are, above all, and I believe that this is not an easy situation in our National Assembly, when SNS MPs face it. Here's to show how unsatisfactory I am, for example, by not accepting the amendments to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Our amendment, gentlemen, I think it is clear to all those who have read our amendments, and I believe that after a year and two months, we have established practice for SNS MPs to read our amendments thoroughly, and these, as well as those that we have today and which are not, to be deleted, where we propose two amendments. One change is about changing one term, so instead of saying, we use term definitions and then we have a proposal to change the content of point 1. Now, on behalf of the Ministry of Ministers Mihajlovic, she answered us why a term cannot be accepted – definitions, instead of terms – concepts and so it is said – the amendment is not accepted for reasons that in laws and other regulations in the field of traffic, wording uses the formulation used in the bill. By accepting the proposed amendment, the use of nomotechnics would be left without justifiable reason. I have one counterargument here. It is possible that there is an approach that means that in this area regarding traffic, people always apply this term, this term right here, but then I could say – so wait for respected gentlemen, we have a lot of laws that we adopt in the National Assembly, and yet some other terms like the term are used, for example – defining certain expressions or meaning of certain expressions. I believe that calling on a nomote so that it can then direct us to one contradiction between different legal solutions, within different areas. So someone might resent, then, that when the law is proposed, this government declares one contradiction in terms of access to use by certain terms. What is more interesting to me, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is that there is no intervention in your answer to the second part of our amendment. In the second part of our amendment, we have proposed that the contents of point 1 be changed within Article 3. It's a bill of law. And our proposal is that point 1 reads - The Security Recommendation is the proposal of the Centre for the Research of Accidents based on information obtained in the investigation in order to prevent accidents and serious accidents in air traffic, serious accidents in rail traffic, very serious maritime accidents, serious maritime accidents, maritime accidents, sea accidents, serious sea accidents and water accidents." Now it is very important to me, I think, that we have one order and in our debate here and one mutual respect, to hear why the contents of point 1 as we have suggested, respected Members of Parliament, respected presidents of the National Assembly and respected Mrs Mihajlovic, were not accepted. We did not get an argument as to why it was not accepted, so I expect now that during the debate we hear why it is not, so perhaps we too accept this argument, respected presidents of the National Assembly and respected Mrs. Mihajlovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32852	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32853	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister of Associates, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Members of the People, of course I suggest that the amendment be rejected, for reasons of non-compliance, and not meaningful. Why? Because certain terms in the bill better correspond to the essence of Article 3 which we are talking about, rather than the expression of a specific definition proposed by the previous speaker. Therefore, the term “ideal” is established in the legal nomenclature, while the term “definition” is not so fixed. But it doesn't matter that much. Perhaps this is more important to get into the concept of the word "definition" or "definition". Then, if we enter into the essence of those words, then it would be clear to the respected doctor Pavicevic why the bill uses an expression of a particular concept rather than a certain definition. Let me say that certain concepts, or concepts, in logic, are the mindful synthesis of the essential common features of a group of objects, that's one definition. The second definition that is established in the people is that the concept is basic knowledge of something. About what? For example, when two people talk about corn and this one says - you have no idea about corn, it means there is no basic knowledge. Or, Professor Pavicevic has no idea of the concept, that means he has no basic knowledge of the concept of, etc., or Zoran Zivkovic has no idea of viticulture. So that's what this basic knowledge is about - what it's about. Thirdly, the notion is that what we think in the philosophical sense of the word is the definition of the famous philosopher Gaja Petrovic, etc. And what's most important right now is the general idea is ultimately derived from the characteristics of the subject's properties. Then what's the definition? I think we'll be clear now, the definition is precisely and logically determining one concept using another concept. Did you feel the difference between concept and definition? Of course it is. And finally, I recommend that the respected doctor take the logic textbook from the gymnasium, where one of the teaching units stands "the term" and one "definition" and I think it might be clearer to him why the government left it under the term "definition" rather than "definition". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32854	I must first give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic, because he is a proposing in the same text. You first. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: A replica? The replica has an advantage.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32855	I think it's logical to give the replica first.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32856	Well, if you accept that, it was my mistake not to give my word before the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32857	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, and Mrs Mihajlovic, and distinguished guests from the ministry, are two things I want to say now in a replica to the honourable MP and professor Mark Atlagic. Dear gentlemen, of course there are differences between the meaning of certain terms. When we say "the term", when we say "termin", when we say "definition", of course it's all different terms, but I recommend to Professor Atlagic, of course, that he stick to both logic and textbooks concerning logic, but basically, respected gentlemen and dictionaries of the Serbian language that we use here in the National Assembly, we from opposition, but Professor Atlagic, not the dictionaries of the 1960s that you now place on your desk. Here, Professor Atlagic now sets up volumes of vocabulary from the 1960s. Since the 1960s, it's been more than half a century, honored gentlemen, and language changes, meanings change. Here, in the 2007 dictionary, Matice of Serbian, the Honorable Gentlemen, writes well: Definition – interpretation, or meaning of a concept; and we wanted to very precisely suggest to Mrs. Mihajlović what should be found in Article 3 of this Bill proposal, and using the dictionary as well as textbooks concerning logic, respected gentlemen. As for this section on viticulture, I believe that the MP Zoran Zivkovic would have little session, Mr Atlagic, to give a little lectures on the area, so when it comes to some topic, I suggest that some serious debate be taken. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I ask that, however, and that is a second note, to answer this second part, point 1. Why it is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32858	The word is from Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32859	Thank you very much. I think counterpart Pavicevic made it very clear why "definition" is a better term than the term "ideal" to use in this law and reason is somewhere between unserious and pointless. The fact that something has been used, if it should be a method of responding to the amendments of the MPs in particular to the opposition, then you can always refuse something, because what we offer is something new, something that should change the old, and you swear that you want to implement reforms and introduce changes. You can't do this. We didn't get an answer from the Minister, from the Deputy Prime Minister. The answers given by some MPs are indeed beyond the need to comment and I really have no intention of doing so, not entering the immeasurable expertise they have in these areas of what they are talking about. The issue has been asked to a member of the government, vice president, minister of traffic. I can agree once again with Mr Pavicevic that on this second part of our amendment, you have practically said nothing, you have neither given in the government's position nor have we heard that so far what is wrong with this other attitude that we want to change, and I can conclude only one thing, so that it would be good for you to inform the MPs in the National Assembly, citizens and citizens of Serbia who wrote this law. It's obviously not you and it's no shame. Ministers usually rarely write laws, but it would be nice to bring in someone who wrote this law because he's the only one who's competent to tell us what's going on here, why these terms are like this and why our amendments aren't accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32860	The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32861	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Minister, associates, of course, that the amendment submitted by MPs Pavicevic and Zivkovic should not be accepted, and I will try to explain to them what they did not want to understand in a very educational presentation that counterpart Atlagic here had the opportunity to tell them. First of all, I would understand that as a proposal in the first part of the amendment that they gave was to replace the word – meaning – with a word – definition. Then that would make sense. So, that the meaning of the concept is predefined into the definition of concept. That would make a lot of sense. What they have suggested, indeed, with all the summoning and the logic and the dictionary, still doesn't make any sense. Secondly, what you wanted to hear from Madam Minister, that is what I will try to explain to you that by some chance you have separated this one amendment into two amendments, you may have had the opportunity to be satisfied this time that at least something was accepted, as you have had the opportunity to read, and you probably did not do so – the government has accepted the amendment submitted by Members Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov etc. exactly in the text you suggested in the second part of your amendment. You understand that one amendment cannot be accepted or rejected in one part and accepted in another. So the amendment can only be accepted in general. And your second part of the amendment is almost identical to the amendment already accepted by the MPs I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32862	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) I did not give a word to Dr. Mark Atlagic, for under Article 104 it would have to be something offensive, some misunderstanding. That is why I cannot give you a replica now, if the previous MP has delivered his opinion on why the amendment should not be accepted. (Marko Atlagic, from the post: But Pavicevic really misread it. ) Let me estimate that the session would somehow run. I know you all think someone misread it. You'll all get your word, but according to the amendment. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32863	Thank you, Madam President. There's no need for this to take too long. I thank my colleague for just explaining what the amendment promoter was most interested in – why there is no answer to one part of their proposal. Just because that part was adopted, through another amendment. Why the other one is and this one isn't, the answer is also hidden in the response we got from the government. Because there is an objection to what was proposed in the first part of the amendment that we are now discussing. Definition or concept, I don't think we should insist on that, since we meet very often here with the laws in which the term is used – the term. It's never been a problem before, so I don't see any reason for it to be now. So, not only does this come down to an excuse to report in a number of attempts today, I think the explanation is very meaningful, it has its own reason, it's beautiful and engaged, it's understandable and there's absolutely nothing controversial about it. Although, personally, perhaps, even for this second part of the amendment that was adopted, I wouldn't spend too many words, since it's just a change of order. I didn't notice that there were differences in terms. It may just sound better, more elegant, but that's where we're talking about flavors. I suggest we get an amendment for the reasons we've been given in an explanation. Once again, I think that this proposal to introduce a definition instead of a notion is actually an insistence on something that doesn't have a place. I'd like to point out one more thing. The fact that these amendments were not adopted, there is absolutely no contradiction and there is no paradox if we were able to hear today why, because the essence is in quality. And it's totally consistent with what we insist on from these benches. In order for something to be adopted, it must satisfy the condition of being of a certain quality. Even when the famous thing is proposed – it is deleted, even when it is proposed something like this proposed by the promoters of this amendment to this law, quality, unfortunately, and there is no. On the contrary, I think the amendment promoter insists that the quality does not exist. What exactly am I thinking about? I would like to invite the amendment promoter to look at his own explanation of this amendment, to look at St. 1 and 2 of his reasoning, and if, in that dictionary that we saw earlier, he can find three or four words that practically do not exist, or that are indeed a spelling shame, he may find that there is no need today to wave on these dictionaries, at least not so obviously and aggressively. This may be the quality of the spelling worst amendment we've received in this conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32864	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32865	Thank you. Many of us here have no idea that amendments don't have parts. That's the first term. The second term is that two amendments cannot be spoken of at the same time, one of which is in search, and the other is not. So it would be good for all of us if all of us who take the word to show that we know something first read how the amendment is submitted, how the amendment is accepted or not accepted, because the amendment cannot be rejected either. It can be rejected on the Committee, and the vote is accepted or not accepted. Well, whenever next time we want to talk very carefully about what happens to the amendment to the search in particular, then this is information that can't possibly hurt. The amendment of fellow MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic in general does not change the law up, on the contrary, and it is quite possible to accept it. What is a procedural theme for this amendment is that it has already been accepted and has become an integral part of the Bill of Law amendments to another group of MPs, so that we should also bear in mind when we hold a debate in particular. And in this amendment and in others concerning concepts and definitions, we will have quite a debate on what it means, whether it is well used and whether the competences of the accident research centre have been sufficiently clearly defined. We other MPs may have the right to ignorance, but I do not believe that those who work very closely, such as counterpart Nebojsa Petrovic, in the area, can afford to say that there are parts of the amendment or that one part of the amendment is such that it harms the law terribly, since it is obviously incorrect. If everything serves rhetoric and we're wasting time, then I understand, but it's not good to talk about parts of the amendment in the context of entertainment and political folklore and rhetoric, because it doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32866	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32867	Dear President, let me explain this bill. I've already suggested that the amendment be rejected, because in some ways I've been misread. It's not true about the concept and the dictionary. This dictionary I have here, I have six books, not one, and it's not true, if it's a newer edition, it's even better. I'm just saying, in 1963, the Encyclopaedia of Yugoslavia came out, and one of our encyclopedias is now in one of those, of all thousands of sides. Are you saying this one's better? So I'm speaking here for the truth to the academic public, showing a dictionary in six books, not in one, the 1971 Mother of Serbs, page 613. I quoted page 613, all four of that notion. Let the academic public judge. As far as the bill is concerned, I think that the government has really taken care of it and put the term "termin" and not "definition".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32868	Thank you. The apostle explained what he meant. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32869	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow citizens, we have tabled an amendment to Article 3 which speaks of the meaning of the concepts covered by this law, on the investigation of the accident in air, rail and water transport, and we have made this amendment to Article 3(1) after point 4.) the new point 4a is added; the train is prescribed, assembled and covered by a series of tow vehicles with one or more tow vehicles or only a tow or more affected tow vehicles. To make it clear to the citizens, this article tells us what is a safety recommendation, what is a ship, what is an aircraft, what is a great damage in a railway, what is a very serious maritime accident, etc. After point 5.) We added 5a) and 5b), which speak of a towing vehicle and a towed vehicle and in point 8.) We added 8a) and 8b), these are the terms - what is maneuvering and maneuvering composition. This is what we have proposed because we believe it is necessary to define these terms in order to precisely determine the concept of accident or accident in rail traffic, because this is of great importance for the application of the provisions relating to the conduct of the competent authorities when these cases occur. The amendment also proposes a more precise definition of the concepts - a very serious maritime accident, the promoter defined that a very serious maritime accident is that of a maritime accident that results in, among other things, death. However, he did not precisely define whose death and how many faces, especially when such precision was made in the concept of a serious accident in rail traffic. In addition, the notion - a serious accident in rail traffic - is that it is an accident that results in at least one person’s death and a serious injury to five or more persons. We have been given the reason that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the concept is a train, a tow truck and a tow vehicle defined in the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways, and the concepts - maneuvering and maneuvering in the applicable railway regulations. So you're still saying that by accepting the amendment, there would be a conflict between these two laws given the different meanings that would be given to the same concepts, it's not true. That's not true. So what we cited and quoted, we quoted the concepts of the current law. We didn't make this up or make new coins. I don't understand why, if something is already covered by a law that here, not to quote "The Official Messenger", where these terms are found, we put it to be a clearer and more complete member, you reject it and say that they are different concepts. I would like you to explain to me and read to me "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No 104/13 and Traffic Regulation No 2 and Manual of Manoeuvring Number 42 to differ from what we have given in the amendment proposal. Please reconsider and accept our proposal because we will have a more complete law by accepting our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32870	Here you go. He has the word of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32871	Before I answer that immediately, at all, 77 amendments came to this law, 17 were accepted, and when we talk about this amendment, the Committee itself said that this amendment was not in line with the existing legislation, or that there was a collapsing, that the provisions of the amendment itself were not accepted. So if the board itself said that, I think that's enough information for me, which is why the amendment wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32872	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32873	Thank you, Madam President. Another sentence in addition to the reasoning we have heard, I certainly agree with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has given a negative assessment of such things we should not waste time additionally, also spelling reasons. Quality reasons. I call on the Amendment Proposer to read the text of his proposed point 8a) to see that spelling is absolutely not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32874	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32875	Thank you. My colleague, Snezana Malovic, and I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which otherwise defines the concepts of the bill. We have an objection to Article 3 paragraph 1 point 16) that defines serious boating accidents on internal waters. Given that point 14 describes a serious accident in rail traffic, where it is stated, among other things, that it is a collision, a collision or a slip train that has the effect of the death of at least one person or a serious injury to five or more persons, we considered, by analogous to the definition of a serious accident and in railway or serious navigational accidents on internal waters, that it is necessary to change the part that says in point 16), among other things, that words – death or serious physical injuries change in words – the death of at least one person or a serious physical injury to five or more persons. In response to the Government, it is said - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that a serious boating accident exists and when there was a serious physical injury to one person. We don't argue that, but I'm asking you one more question-- point 18.) which also describes the boating accident on the internal waters, where between material damage and other things, when it comes to human lives and when it comes to injuries, it says that there is an accident on the internal waters, so when there are human victims or physical injuries. There is no difference as to human victims and injuries between point 18 and point 16). I'd like you to explain to me why there is no analogy in this township of severe or serious rail accidents and serious inland navigational accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32876	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Blagoje Bradic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. You want a word? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32877	Yeah, well, I want a word anyway. It's okay that the amendment was accepted, but that the citizens know why it was accepted and what it said in the article. Article 5 speaks and says – the centre is independent in the work of functional and organisational, independent of all authorities and organisations responsible for air, rail and water transport, as well as all legal and natural persons whose interests may be contrary to the tasks and powers of the centre. Our view was that the independence of the centre besides the functional and organisational needs must also apply to finance, so we suggested that words – functionally and organisationally replace themselves with words – functionally, organisationally and financially because the independence and independence of the traffic accident research centre can be fully guaranteed and provided only if the centre is independent not only, as I said, functionally and organisationally but also materially, or financially. The financial dependence of the organisation is touching both functional and organisational independence and therefore I think it is very good that the ministry has accepted our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32878	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32879	Thank you, Madam President. Our amendment refers to Article 5, which describes in more detail the work of the centre, i.e. the work of the centre. According to point 2 of this Article, the competent authorities of the Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States and the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union and of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union, as well as the competent authorities of the Member States and the Commission of the other Member States, as well as the competent authorities of the Member States, of the We thought, co-worker Snezana Malovic and I, that after words – parallel investigations to add words – which are conducted in accordance with the law. The reason for the refusal of amendments states that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that the proposal for a law on the investigation of air, rail or water accidents regulates parallel investigations. In view of the fact that the bill does not apply to parallel investigations which determine the liability and degree of guilt to be carried out in accordance with other laws, only the proposed member shall be subject to a material connection of several laws in order to coordinate the conduct of the competent authorities, etc. etc. Many times in the principle debate you have made it clear what the centre's business is, we understand that, but I don't think it's against the reluctance that in this position after the word "paraleal investigations" to state that all the other investigations being conducted are conducted, conducted in accordance with the law, and I ask you once again to think about it and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32880	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32881	Just for a little while. How different, if they don't comply with the law. It is understood, as in the previous one, that we have mentioned different concepts that exist in various, that I am only overly attached, I have not responded, therefore for that previous amendment, different types of traffic have different concepts and cannot be unified. But as far as this is concerned, it is understood that it is in accordance with the law and we thought it should not stand further. That's why the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32882	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32883	I thank the President-in-Office, Your Honor, suggest that this amendment is not accepted because the term "paralytic investigations" is somewhat wider than this, which the Minister also confirmed, that investigations are carried out in accordance with the laws relevant for each of the types of investigations, because of what is possible, and that is the practice, that the self-interested entities, who have suffered certain damage during some of the accidents in one of the three types of traffic, are engaged in their investigations. So, when it comes to air traffic, one er bass or boing, regardless of what various state institutions are dealing with an investigation into the crashes of their planes, the executions and investigations that are company investigations. For this reason, the legislator defined himself for this broader concept, because it is possible, especially when it comes to major accidents, when it comes to serious loss of life, when it comes to serious material damage, when it comes to the setting of whether the cause of such an accident is just a human factor or perhaps a factory error or a design error, all companies are guided by this logic to investigate such major accidents themselves. That's why this term was absolutely necessary in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32884	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32885	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, Article 6, we have made an amendment to Section 2. I'll also read attitude one to make it more clear to you what I'm talking about. "The Centre is managed by a lead investigator who has the position of director of a special organisation. “ That’s where we all agree. The next stance says: "The chief investigator sets up the government for five years, and on a proposal from the Prime Minister. “ We have put forward a proposal to change this attitude, which says: “The Chief Investigator and Assistant Chief Investigators is putting the Government on the proposal of the Prime Minister for five years, following a public competition. “ And we added, in the end, to Article 7 paragraph 8, which reads: “As regards the implementation of the public competition under Article 2 and with regard to the rights and duties and other issues relating to the position of the Chief Investigative Officer and Assistant Chief Investigators, the provisions of the law governing the work of civil servants are applied accordingly. “ We also gave the reason that the bill did not set up the main investigator and his assistant, nor did it refer to the corresponding application of certain regulations, nor did their position, i.e. rights and duties, be regulated. We believe that it is necessary to define precisely that the lead investigator and assistants are placed on the basis of a previously implemented public competition and that the provisions of the Law on civil servants, relating to public competition and the rights and duties of civil servants in place, are applied accordingly at the position of these persons. We have been given an explanation of the refusal, which he says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the choice of the head of a special organisation, or persons in a position governed by the Law on Civil Servants. Well, we talked about it. We've rewritten the terms of the Civil Service Act and we've only completed a member. I understand you don't want to accept our amendments, but don't give us this kind of explanation. I don't think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32886	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32887	I think we'll read it again, like when we had a discussion of the principle law, what Article 6 looks like. Since, of course, you can give the amendment one word and one decimal, and one piece of article 6, but Article 6 is very clear and exactly, if we were to add what you say, I think we're just burdening the text, because it says very clearly: “The Prime Minister puts the government for five years on a proposal from the Prime Minister. “The person being appointed,” which is essential, “for the chief investigator of the sea, in addition to the conditions prescribed by the law governing the work on the position of civil servants,” which is the Law on civil servants, which assumes a public competition, and this is well written in the Law on civil servants, “to have the appropriate expertise in the research of accidents for at least nine years” etc. So no one said they were setting up a lead investigator without a public competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32888	Thank you. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Mihajlović and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, will now, in an attempt to explain why it is necessary to accept this amendment, only to rely on what Mr Blagoja Bradic said earlier. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I think you should focus special attention here as well as this amendment, because our proposal is that we have this supplement in Article 6(2). So, it says: “The Chief Investigator sets the government for a period of five years, after a public competition has ended in line with the highest international standards. “ I agree that you are right when you put this instruction on the ground, that the amendment is not accepted now because the choice of the Head of State is governed by the Law on Civil Servants. And why, in that attitude, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we just didn't put this -- this will all be done on the basis of the content of the Civil Service Act? I think it is very important that in the conditions in which we stress the importance of this competition and especially, Mrs. Mihajlovic, and what would be the problem here and especially this - in line with the highest international standards? It is not contrary to any law, it is emphasising something that is important and that would mean, Mrs. Mihajlovic, not accepting this approach which has been common throughout the morning advocated by Professor. Atlagic and Mr. Orlic. When, for example, they say – if Mr Pavicevic calls for a new edition of the dictionary, it does not mean that it is newer than what is old. Well, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we have to follow the existing rules, whatever you think of them. It would be like me, thinking that some law is not good, I'm going through Serbia now and I'm telling people -- let's not follow adopted laws. Well, what would that look like, dear gentlemen and Mr. Orlic and Mr. Atlagic? We must obey the rules adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32890	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32891	The existing rules and, above all, the existing Law on civil servants are very clear. It assumes a public competition, which is very clear and beautifully written, so I will again take advantage of the opportunity and read again, because of the citizens of Serbia - a person who is being appointed chief investigator of the sea, in addition to the conditions prescribed by the law governing the work of civil servants, which is the Law on civil servants, to have the appropriate expertise in research activities. Therefore, no one has said, I repeat, that anyone who is a civil servant will be placed outside the public competition, which is in article 6 and standing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32892	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32893	I'll use those five minutes. We got and we heard the argument and it made sense, but there's no reason not to put in a competition because of the accuracy of the law, regardless of what the State Officials Act says and the special organizations, because that would not be necessary enough then for a definition to be proposed by the Prime Minister. Then why would it have to be in this law? But I think the problem is deeper. The draft law, which, as far as I know, is on your ministry's website, says it's an agency, not a center as a special organization. The agencies have a special, different way of electing a director compared to special organisations. That's what it says on your website, and I know this for sure. The establishment of special organisations can only be legally done if the Ministry Act is amended. My question is, has the Ministry Act been changed and is there any possibility of establishing this centre in your ministry as jurisdiction or anywhere in the government? Does it say it's the center? What does the Ministry Act say? So special organizations are founded by changing the Ministry Act, and then they are defined by a special law, as we have a law before us. If we have a variant such as the draft law, which I repeat still stands on your ministry's website, and if it's an agency, then the director of the agency is not being put on a proposal from the Prime Minister, but in another setting. That's why I asked at the beginning, and it's not a transfer at all, so tell us who wrote the law so we know who to talk to about the details? Don't be offended. No one knows everything, not even the Deputy Prime Minister, and that's perfectly normal. Okay, maybe you think someone knows everything, but I still don't think there's anyone who knows everything. So, because of the quality of the debate and the quality of the law that has been passed in this House, that it would not have the fate of many laws that have been passed in the last three years, so they have been changed after six months or a year, it is in everyone's interest to define such an important topic in a way that is absolutely appropriate to the conditions in which we live, and this is the 21st century and this is Europe, and we want to be part of the European community, or the EU. That's why we can't afford to have solutions that look more like the middle of the century, and that's also necessary in this case. Why should the Prime Minister know what qualifications are needed for the director of the centre, or for the lead investigator? I am sure that there is no Prime Minister in the world who has such knowledge and experience that based on his personal proposal he can guarantee that someone who performs such an important function will do so in a valid way. Disperse the Prime Minister of such obligations, anyone in the future. It's impossible in the past, no matter what some high-ranking lawyers think it's possible. It's impossible to change anything backwards. Therefore, regardless of the throw-offs, which I am unable to understand because I have no attributes of Dr. Dolittle, I ask you once again to enter into the essence of this law, in the good intentions of our proposal, to take another look at it, you can also take a break, and then say what is so incompatible with good intentions, with reform processes or with anything, and which would bother the adoption of this amendment. It would be very interesting, of course, it is the subject of some other amendments, but since I was mentioned earlier by a colleague as someone who has no idea, it would be good to be told by Mr Nebojsa Petrovic, who is now in charge of the lead investigator, where he was at night...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32894	Ambassador, just an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32895	Let me say I'm wrong, and you punish me afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32896	I don't want to punish anyone, I want to direct the debate properly. So, no questions asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32897	How can you read thoughts I want to say now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32898	Because you said the first sentence and asked where Dr Nebojsa Petrovic was.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32899	And then you know what I'm gonna say? Why don't you change your job? Why don't you do some work where your supernatural abilities, your predictions, would be useful maybe more for this country and this people?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32900	Thank you for the idea of entrepreneurship, but I'm asking you now about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32901	If the law had been written well and all the members of this law were good, including the 6th member of the amendment, it would not have happened that on the night of the helicopter, no one could find the Chief Inspector, and especially not in two and 24. That's why it's important when laws are written that we know exactly what's going on, how it's done, and that we don't happen to have an accident that's the subject of this law, and that more than five months later we don't know anything about what happened and that we have a conspiracy of silence, in which the current chief inspector is involved. It's called opt-out in a colloquial language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32902	The word has a minister, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32903	As you know, special organizations have been established by the Ministry Act and this centre will have the status of a special organisation. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. I'm sorry, I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. Another thing, if any information is found on the site that does not correspond to the current text, or text that is now in parliament, which has passed the government and which is now in particular here at the debate, then it will certainly be corrected because there is likely to be a technical error. I've already responded to that. So, in that sense, if there's a mistake, we'll correct it. Thank you, and I apologize for that. So he'll have the status of a special organization, and he'll be the center for investigating accidents and accidents. I don't want to explain again something I've read a few times, and there's no need for me to do that. The law on civil servants is clear. The competition certainly exists and it is. Just another one at the end of the line. The subject of this law is not an accident. It's an accident investigation. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32904	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32905	Thank you, Your Honor. I am reporting on the amendment, and I would like, previously, as an introductory word simply to explain that there is no or special law in the Republic of Serbia governing the area of accident research. The whole matter is highly regulated by regulations. The adoption of this law is the only option to overcome all these problems and the only way to make the application of this law, which regulates the area of accident research, practical and effective, and to indirectly increase traffic safety and reduce the possibility of accidents and accidents, which can cause human victims, significant loss of property value and environmental pollution. As Mrs. Mihajlovic has already repeated several times, the choice of a special organisation's head, i.e. persons in a position has been governed by the Law on State Servants. The person appointed as the main investigator of the sea, in addition to the conditions prescribed by the law governing the work in the position of civil servants, has the appropriate expertise in accident research and at least nine years of work experience in air, rail or water traffic. In voting day, I will vote for this bill proposed by the government headed by Alexander Vukic, but I will not vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32906	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32907	The President-in-Office, your Honor, needs to clarify some of the things that have been mentioned here, which I think may cause complete confusion in the public and among the MPs. It's strange that you dare and give yourself the freedom to talk about something that you haven't informed yourself about. Of course, you can set up and propose any amendment, but the explanation of the amendment must be really clear, precise and true. First, there's a bill on the Ministry's website. The draft law as it is on the Ministry's website has entered a public debate with the text. This text of the law and the bill before us came out of the public debate. The public debate, which was really very fundamental and in which all those who have taken part on these three types of traffic have something to say, of course, with very serious opinions given by the relevant ministries, and this should also be stressed, the resolution ministries, have made some proposals and insisted on certain changes. So is the initial proposal in the draft of this law, that the new body is formed as an agency, transformed into a special organisation. Whether or not the legislators were satisfied with the fact, it is something that we can talk about, but, above all, because this state is trying to really refer to all further issues of the state administration in a responsible way, which means that it also takes care of the rationalisation and the material resources it allocates to such institutions, it gave up on the agency and in the bill the form of a special organisation. It is also surprising that someone who was and the Prime Minister does not know that special organisations can form in two ways. One is the Law on the Ministry, and the other is a special law governing the area. So it doesn't have to be on the list in the Ministry Act every special organization, especially those who have their own special law. The current centre, and this future that we will form under this law, can also and do not have to be found on the list of all ministries, where there are a number of special organisations. The current centre was formed under the Air Traffic Act, where it was clearly laid down in that law to be a special organisation. The very fact that it is so defined in the Air Traffic Act does not have to be found under the Ministry Act. Such elemental ignorance is inadmissible, and we are talking today all the time about the lead investigator, and we call it the Chief Inspector, which is also absolutely not standing. Finally, thirdly, it was clear in the context of the discussion, in principle, regarding this law, we are talking here about civil aviation, not military aviation, only one small segment refers to mixed commissions formed under special conditions. What happened in the military helicopter and in the current Air Traffic Act is clear in the jurisdiction of the military and the Ministry of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32908	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32909	Thank you. The amendment submitted by fellow MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, as well as the amendment submitted by counterpart Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Blagoje Bradic, is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32910	Error, Gordana, only Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32911	Like the amendment, I say, since it's the same...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32912	Next, no. The last one?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32913	No, no, next is my amendment, and my colleagues who signed the amendment with me. The one currently under investigation and earlier has the same idea, that it is clearly said that the chief investigator is setting up the government for a period of five years after the public competition ended, in line with the highest international standards, instead of Article 6's position, which says the chief investigator sets the government for five years, on a proposal from the Prime Minister. The explanation that it will be a competition for the lead investigator is an explanation which is an interpretation, because calling for the next position, about setting up a face under the Law on civil servants, which, of course, will not be interpreted as a competition. The way it is now in the law, along with the amended attitude 3, can be a competition, not a must. It is also an interpretation equally, as well as that for the lead investigators and also for the assistants there will be competitions. I hope that the interpretation we received from Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic will be what will be in practice, that there will be a competition for the lead investigator and for the assistants, for all those who will be employed in the future special organisation. The interpretation that this law establishes a special organisation does not have to be found in the Ministry Act is also an interpretation. All special organisations are listed in the Ministry Act, including the authorities and organisations that are also subject to the government's proposal by the Prime Minister, and there are. I am not asking for a reply from the vice president again because if it is once said in the Assembly that there will be a competition for the lead investigator, then I have no reason to doubt that this will be done and that the commission that decides on candidates who report, believing that they meet the conditions for the lead investigator, will decide and present their decision to the Prime Minister, who will then formally propose to the government to appoint a chief investigator. I hope that will be enough for this law to really be applied in that part and in agreement with the Civil Service Act, as interpreted in the discussion. Everything else we've heard and what's been extended to the authority of the lead investigator, with great disappointment, I'm listening to the current lead investigator who doesn't know that the rescue mission in 133 wasn't a military flight. That's how much you should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32914	The Messenger of the people, Katarina Rakic, told them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32915	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank one of the previous speakers who, trying to be interesting and interesting, brought me back to childhood, mentioning a character of a cartoon that's on the level of primary school children. I'm sorry we still have MPs at this level in this room, but, well, I'm saying again, it's a good thing he tried to at least be interesting. What he said rightly was that we got an explanation for these amendments and that it made sense to be rejected. Of course it makes sense. What makes no sense is that these two amendments, which are in the same text by MPs Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, as well as the MPs of the SDS, as well as the MPs who have submitted the next amendment, do not make any sense that we are discussing them since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislatory rejected them, which means that we are here to propose something that will certainly bring better and improve the text of the law, and not to adopt amendments, to adopt them to become an integral part of the law, and to reject them after the Constitutional Court, as something that is not in line with the legal system and legislation in the Republic of Serbia. Personally, I don't think we should discuss such amendments at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32916	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32917	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be rejected, therefore, amendment to Article 6. I join the argument given by the Government in her opinion, but also by what Mrs Mihajlovic earlier presented as an argument, but also by all other MPs. After this, let me say, exhaustive debates, I really don't think the argument itself is controversial and that it's clear to everyone that this amendment should not be accepted. But I don't know, Madam Chairman, what is the connection between the text of this amendment and the word that has been used, which is an obstacle. I had to look for the meaning of this word and find that it was a term from mob movies. I believe the promoter of this amendment has seen mob movies in his youth. I believe that these mob movies have inspired him in some way, I believe that he may have been encouraged by some of his business ventures...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32918	Come on, please, just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32919	But I don't think mentioning that word is appropriate anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32920	Let's not spoil the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32921	I think you should have reacted. Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32922	I don't know what that word means. I can't react when I don't know something.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32923	In any case, I call on us to refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32924	Word of foreign origin No one mentioned you. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Do I have the right to replica?]] Name, last name, nobody. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32925	Our intervention in Article 6 in paragraphs 3 and 5 was to change the years of work experience required by both the lead investigator and the assistants, so that it or her is considered to take 10 years of work experience in air, rail or water traffic. The assistants of the lead investigators must, in addition to the conditions prescribed by the law governing the work of civil servants, have at least three years of working experience in air, rail, water, accident research, but five. It is not only that we have an amendment, although it is, of course, legitimate and commentable, but it is necessary to add years that require both the main investigators and the assistants of the lead investigators with the hope that the competition will indeed come from people who will prove their working experience that they deserve to be elected for both the lead investigators and his assistants. There is a dilemma where they will work and interpret that if you establish in this law that it is a special organization that it can exist without amending the Ministry Act. I repeat, we have heard that such interpretation is by the promoter. We hope that this interpretation will remain in effect. I have to express my suspicion, because I want him to do this as soon as possible. So, and to get into effect, and to have a competition, and to really report to people, and to get a thorough start on a job that's important. In order for all of this to happen, there must be a legal framework which is undeniable, the role of a special organisation as well as an interpretation of the competition were the subject of this and the previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32926	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. (Zoran Babic, from the site: mistake. I'm sorry. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Gordana, by chance, or do you want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32927	I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. This amendment has become an integral part of the law that is the position of the 3rd Article 6 on which various MPs had interventions and we now have that, after the adoption of the text of the law in general, he will vote – that the person appointed as the chief investigator of the sea, in addition to the conditions laid down by the law governing the position of civil servants, will have at least nine years of working experience in air or rail or water transport, of which at least three years of work experience on air, rail or water traffic security operations and accident research. This is the position we call upon when we interpret there will be a competition relating to the part of the text that has become an integral part of the law in addition to the conditions prescribed by the law governing the position of civil servants. It's part of the text that's been interpreted as mandatory public competition for both the public investigator and the assistants only because of our common, hopefully, interest in being completely undisputed and will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32928	Thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32929	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the PRECRET Movement has submitted seven amendments to this law and 30% of these amendments have been accepted. I would also like the support of the PRECRET Movement to be higher than that percentage, but certainly most Serbian citizens feel that a turnaround in Serbia is necessary. I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for accepting this amendment. So you didn't have a problem with the opposition amendment. This is a confirmation and that we have thoroughly looked at the law in the amount of time we've had. That we've seen some illogicality. We are here specifically together through my proposal and your acceptance removed the possibility that the Centre has no right to make recommendations that train accidents do not happen in the future if we have a lesson from some accidents in the past. So the amendment here is accepted, which says, that the Centre makes safety recommendations to improve safety in rail traffic. Such recommendations are provided by the Centre in air traffic and in internal navigation, so it is logical to do so in rail traffic as well. We've done something to prevent them. On the other hand, I hope that this law will be applied and that its application will lead to the number of accidents in air, rail and river transport being reduced so that research and accident will not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32930	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32931	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in order to take a realistic look at the approach of the analysis of all laws as well as an analysis of the need to adopt an amendment, I would like to draw attention to the way we have analysed, as we have adopted the amendments, on behalf of the Committee, the Resolution Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure. Of course, it's not about any selective approach but simply objective and professional. This amendment extends the obligations of the Traffic Safety Research Centre and since it is proposed to add a member to which the Centre makes recommendations to improve safety in rail transport, it was logical that we, as SDPS MPs, as well as, of course, MPs who are members of the resolution board, make a recommendation to adopt this amendment. He was adopted through the board and thus became part of this law, because it is perfectly logical to accept it, because the Centre has received an additional obligation in principle – better prevented than treated. In principle, you better make as many recommendations and think about recommendations as possible, not deal with post-festum causes and consequences of railway accidents. Of course it was one of the motives. I volunteered simply to explain the principle, how we adopted the amendments, and that it really is completely irrelevant who the amendment proposes. Therefore, the SDPS will also support such amendments and, of course, the resolution board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32932	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32933	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, so the amendment has been well accepted and there is no doubt that this amendment is useful. I'd like to draw attention, extremely well-intentioned, therefore to the legal-technical editorial in the second sentence. So, for accuracy, instead of the word "shake", you have to do the red tape and write "traffick". So, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32934	Thank you. Members of the 7th amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Do you want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Blagoje Bradic submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32935	I would like to thank Madam President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, my fellow Members and I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which regulates the affairs of the Centre and it is very large, since the detailed lists that are all the affairs of the Centre and the whole form of attitude 1. We have proposed that, following this Article 1, paragraph 2 is added: "the centre of competence of the Article 1 position shall be implemented with respect to the rules governing the protection of personal data and free access to information of public importance". We asked the proposed amendment to explicitly state the obligation of the centre, to respect rules governing the protection of personal data and free access to information of public importance. We believe that the introduction of this new position in Article 7 is of paramount importance, given the position of the centre in the system of state administration, i.e. in the light of the fact that the centre has the position of a special organisation to carry out professional tasks, and that in practice this situation can be misunderstood and that it is the basis for interpretation, that the centre is not subject to the legal obligations laid down in the Data Protection Act and free access to information of public importance. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that it would not be accepted for the reasons of Article 6. Air, rail and water traffic accident research laws, prescribed that the lead investigator, the assistants of the Air, Railway and Water Traffic Chief Investigators, as well as all the employees of the Centre, as well as all persons involved in the accident investigation, are obliged to keep the data they are taking into account in the investigation process, as a secret. This article is governed by a general obligation of respect, i.e. the conduct of staff at the centre, in accordance with regulations governing confidential treatment with certain personality data, and there is no need to further specify this obligation in other members of the draft law. First of all, I guess there's a little bit left here - a bill of law, because we have before us a bill of law, and when it is adopted in this assembly, the text of the law is our goal, and what it says in the proposal itself, and what we propose to the amendments is in the final text of the law that will be in force. But I'm guessing that's what's left of it - the draft bill. What I want to point out again and ask you to reconsider this amendment is that there is a difference between the confidentiality of information and the protection of personality data. Some act doesn't have to bear a code of secrecy at all, it doesn't have to have any degree of secrecy, but it can contain data that are subject to the protection of personality data. So, depending on the interpretation of one or another, but in any case to ensure respect for both regulations, we believe that this should be incorporated into the law and that it should be complemented. In this respect, there is no obligation to comply with the rules governing the availability of information of public importance. I've already said that it's clear to everyone that the center has a special position. It is neither a state body in a plastic sense, nor a public undertaking to be automatically subject to the law on the availability of information of public importance. But it covers an area that the public is very interested in, and that's why we thought that it should be in the text of the law that there is a commitment and respect for this regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32936	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32937	Thank you, Madam President, one sentence. I certainly welcome the intention to introduce precision and quality wherever necessary, for these very reasons I would still call for us not to adopt the amendment, and the reasons again are spelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32938	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32939	I thank Madam President, I can only express my satisfaction that both the Ministry and the Government have had the understanding and that they have understood the importance of this amendment which is very short, but which has a very deep meaning if more detailed analysis is made. In fact, Article 8 now reads: "the funds for the work of the centre are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia". We proposed with the amendment that instead of saying "from the budget", the words "in the Republic of Serbia's budget" and the amendment were accepted. The difference is very large in essence, because if said from the Republika Srpska budget it can be from different positions and be interpreted differently. It can even be financed from the budget reserve sometimes. We bring the budget here, and we know all the possibilities, and when we say in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that it must have its own position, that it must be predetermined and that the centre can then plan work, and that it has financial independence and independence, because it knows what its means are, and within these means, it can carry out the jobs that exist and which are of great importance to society.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32940	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32941	Thank you, I'm using the time of authorized DS representatives, this accepted amendment is returning the question. What position in the budget will be the special organisation of the Centre for the Research of Accidents? It's a very important question. If anyone has an idea that position is the current position just for air traffic, it's a very bad idea. I hope she's not here. But, as it is, the Research Centre must be listed in the list of special organizations that should be amended by the Ministry Act. This is not only a procedural issue, but it is as the amendment which has now become an integral part of the law, Article 8, says that funds for the work of the centre are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which means as well as any other position that defines the allocation of the expenditure side of the budget or at the part of the revenue side, if they collect some fees, which I hope will not. They don't have that authority, but it would be important to keep that in mind. We can't stand the amendment here to amend the Ministry Act, but together we can have the awareness that it will be the subject of budget planning for 2016. If anyone else has any other idea where to be the special organisation position of the Budget Accident Research Centre, and without amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, I also think this is the time to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32942	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32943	I expect the Ministry of Finance to make their proposal exactly on the basis of which the government will make a decision and then we'll see exactly where this centre is going to be. My personal opinion is that it must certainly be special and particularly listed, means a special organisation and research centre, not only in air traffic as it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32944	Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic put together the title above article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32945	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so the title of Article 9 and Article 9, we have submitted the amendment, and it reads - Director; so says Article 9. – Director represents and represents the centre, organizes and manages the work of the centre, adopts regulations, etc. We have proposed that the title be – Chief Investigator; and that the article says that the lead investigator represents and represents the centre, organizes and manages the work of the centre, adopts regulations and individual legal acts of the centre, adopts an act on the internal organisation, etc. We gave an explanation to the provisions of Article 6. The draft law states that the centre is managed by a lead investigator who has the position of director of a special organisation and is proposed to amend Article 9. - compliance with the provision of Article 6 we talked about earlier. Your ministry and your professional service, Mrs Mihajlovic, responded – the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is a member of 39. The State Administration Act stipulates that the Director manages a special organisation and that he is responsible for his work to the Government. Now I don't get it. That's a good point in Article 6, Section 1. – the centre is managed by a lead investigator who has the position of director of a special organization; and we only imitate it in Article 9, and you return us to Article 34. The State Administration Act, which we don't argue at all. Here you give the authority that this man or this woman who runs the centre has the office of lead investigator and you say all the powers that the director has, is that, as you said, the director of a special organization, we copy it and write it in article 9, and then you refuse and tell us that it's impossible or maybe you have an idea that you have directors and that you have a lead investigator. If you refuse our amendment, it turns out we'll have a director and a lead investigator at that center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32946	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32947	I'm sorry, I only have one thing to react to. You said, "That man or woman." I guess a woman is a man, too, that's all. You said, "That man or woman." I apologized. I had to react. So the woman is human.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32948	I agree, you'd better not answer. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32949	Thank you, Madam President, one more sentence. I think the proposal is actually just too much since Article 6 introduced the equivalence between the lead investigator and the director. Whether we're going to call it one way or another right now doesn't bring in any newspapers, but there's certainly no reason in the text content, nor is there any reason why either of them could appear as an independent position, it's simply equivalent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32950	The word is Blagoje Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32951	Thank you, after the amendment. So, I have no doubt that you will adopt the bill, as you are on the board, and now here from your discussion it is seen that you will adopt this. I tell the citizens of Serbia, distinguished colleagues, because it won't be the first time we've talked about the same law in six months and everything you're categorically claiming to turn around like it wasn't, so you're telling a new story. I am just telling the citizens of Serbia that what we propose is that there is another way of thinking, that there is another view of the problem and another way to solve the problem. With all due respect, you can, as I told you, vote for the country to be square, but it keeps turning, rolling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32952	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32953	Thank you. Also because of Serbian citizens, this law has nothing to do with relief. If we find ourselves in a position to talk about this in six months, I accept in advance, I would very much like to say that today I said that there was an equivalence introduced between the chief investigator and the director of this institution, just so there is no confusion as to how we think then. Once again, this is too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32954	Thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'll give you my word, tell you right away until I give you a minute, will you spend five minutes? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32955	I've been saving my five minutes, Your Honor, since you took two minutes from me, I need to be thrifty. Dear Minister, you have not accepted this amendment, which the PRECRET Movement has proposed to clearly define in this law who may be the director of the accident investigation centre. Now, in your explanation, you say that the Director is being applied as director of a special organization, to apply the conditions prescribed by the Civil Service Act. That's true and it hasn't been controversial since the beginning. However, this is a special organization with its specificities, and it would not be the first time that in a special law it is specifically arranged who can run that body that you say has a position of a special organisation. In the proposal I submitted, I asked that the director meet the conditions, that he has a higher education of law school, of traffic or that he has completed a police academy, that he has at least five years of working experience in similar jobs, that he speaks at least one world language and that he is not being punished and that he is not being prosecuted. It is possible that we could discuss these conditions, but it is certain that this organization is as a special organisation, that it deserves to specify in particular the conditions that the director should meet. Unfortunately, whom the snakes bite and the lizard is afraid of, we have very bad experiences with the directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32956	Thank you. You're out of time, you said you didn't want to waste it, so it doesn't look like we're gonna steal another five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32957	You won't give me those two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32958	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32959	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted, so amendment to Article 9 of the proposed law. The only thing I can do is read the argument that the government is proposing not to accept this amendment. The argument is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 6. The Law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport prescribed that the chief investigator has the position of the director of a special organisation and that it is subject to the conditions prescribed by the Law on Civil Servants. The explanation quoted by the amendment's promoter says it is necessary to provide for conditions to be met by a person who will represent and represent the centre. These conditions have been laid down and prescribed by another law, the Law on civil servants. I've come from the assumption that a respected doctor of legal science knows that, so I suggest that this amendment be rejected for those reasons. I don't have any particular grudges about spelling or spelling mistakes, there's one small mistake, but I don't want to be petty. It's a "traumatic college" instead of "traumatic". In any case, criticism has yielded fruit and I can praise the progress of the amendment's promoter in this regard, only to release certain fears and it will be all right. Anyway, I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32960	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working even after 18.00 hours, because of the need to pass these laws, or acts from the agenda of this session. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Base? A thin thing, just as the "proposer" is said and an opinion expressed. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32961	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I have to admit that with all due respect, maybe even good intentions, but you know this is a situation where some amendment writes cleanly to report like feet. I don't know that education ends, and here it's required for a condition that he's graduated from higher education, watch that sentence, law school, traffic school, or that he's graduated from the police academy. I understand that you wrote and that you insist that a potential candidate has a law school, a traffic or a police academy, but to finish high school, I haven't heard that yet. This is the first time we've had something like this as a suggestion, and there's really nothing like this that you can't accept. Also, when you say she speaks at least one world language, you know, she's a Serbian world language and she's a world language. I understand that you wrote to speak at least one foreign language, so it's okay to accept, but as you wrote it, it's really unacceptable and it's impossible to get into the law like that. Not to mention having at least five years of work experience on the same or similar jobs. What kind of jobs would be like now when this is basically a new thing to be founded and where could someone, after all, be five years old? I know she used to be similar to this agency, but she had one for every traffic. Now it's coming together for all three types of traffic, now it's coming to this new agency, or whatever it's going to be called. Anyway, I don't know where you could see someone doing similar jobs and putting something like this in the amendment. So this is totally unacceptable. I understand that you wrote this cleanly to answer, but I would ask you, since you're a doctor of legal science, that you're still a little bit more concerned, first of all, about spelling and grammar and, of course, about how you're going to draw up a sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32962	Ambassador, you were not allowed to speak directly to the MP. Yes, you spoke to him all the time. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32963	Thank you, President. Mostly some MPs want to run away from the essence and therefore use insults. My colleague also talked about whether I was afraid or not, probably alluding to some threats that preceded me. The objective of the amendments I have submitted is to fix the law. If I had written the law with my foot, as someone had just said, the minister, or vice president of the government, would not have accepted 30% of the amendments. I know he doesn't have affection for that minister and he said various things that were offensive to her, but it's no way to deal with the minister through me. So, 30% of the amendments that the Turnover Movement has submitted have been accepted. That's how the law is fixed. Because you want political points and you want to answer just to get a picture, to see you, that's not why the citizens chose you. You were chosen by the citizens to serve the people, and the very word of the MP means that the people sent you, not to make those insinuations that have no connection and of which the citizens have no use. They know how they live and how much you cut their wages, your votes, among other things, their wages and pensions and everything else. You want to scandal the assembly. I fight against it, I fight against scandalisation of the Assembly and I fight for the dignity of the MPs, the president, the minister who sits here, and I think that this should be the goal of all of us, to restore dignity to the National Assembly, which, for no reason, violates both executive power and the media, etc. Don't let us contribute to it ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32964	Time. Thank you. I ask all MPs to speak to me. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32965	As you took care of the people, it shows that today we have to return only one billion and 300 million euros in interest from your pointless loans, and that is what Mr. Jelasic is telling you now, who was governor of your time. Parliament's dignity is respected by proper expressions. If you, as a doctor of legal science, are going to make such an amendment, since you just said you wrote the law, you didn't write the law, you wrote the amendments to the bill. That's where you have to take care of it. If you are going to endure such amendments, you are being rudely insulting the dignity of Parliament. Explain to me how high education ends? What does this sentence mean, he says – that he graduated from a higher education of law, traffic law school or that he graduated from the Police Academy? It's absolutely amazing that a doctor of law can afford to write something like this. If we're talking about Parliament's dignity, you're rudely insulting him just as you said about wages and pensions earlier, because you wouldn't be reducing yourself if you could explain then why you unresonally raised those salaries and pensions, where you provided money, and provided out of credit, because you owed this country. Also, you would have to explain why, as a doctor of legal science, you submit such an amendment, where you harshly insult the citizens who see this, and of course you insult Parliament's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32966	We'll finish the replica, please. The Rules of Procedure are always an advantage. [[Janko Veselinović, from town: Give me the replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32967	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Ms. Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I believe that a member of 107 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly during the speech of MP Vladimir Djukanovic, who announced two things here, I think, which were not suitable for parliamentary debate, respected National Assembly presidents, and which you did not respond to for two minutes how long Mr Djukanovic's speech lasted. Mr Djukanovic first challenged here a single right of a national MP, in this case Mr Janko Veselinovic, that Janko Veselinovic, on the drafts of the law, was preparing, respected gentlemen, explaining the amendments and discussing them during the meeting of the National Assembly. Mr. Djukanovic felt invited to measure who here has the right to submit amendments, respected presidents. Well, we're all right, and Mr. Djukanovic is right, so why didn't he submit the amendments? I would worry if I were Mrs. Mihajlovic, that her bill, presented here on behalf of the Government as a Eurofanatic, defends a Eurofob...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32968	Please, about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32969	The other thing, Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Djukanovic used the following words to describe the preparation of an MP's amendment. That's what he said. It's like it's written with a foot. Dear President, I think it was necessary for you to intervene on such words that one of us 250 in the National Assembly used one of us, MP SNS Mr Djukanovic. Please tell Mr. Djukanovic that if you are not in time now, that it was inappropriate, disrespecting the Parliament's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32970	Thank you. As you know, in the tenth second, I told the MP to speak directly to me, not to Ambassador Janko Veseinovic. I asked Janko Veselinovic to speak to me, and those MPs, as if they didn't hear, I don't mean the two of them specifically, but otherwise. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't yell. I hear you very well. I'm responding to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no need to yell. It was not directly done what you said, and Janko Vesenovic was given the opportunity to respond and answered. We can't look back on that part. Do you want to vote on the injury? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32971	And a member of 108, and 107, but since his colleague called, 108 on the National Assembly meeting is the president of the National Assembly. If I had broken the Rules of Procedure, I believe you would have warned me. But just for the sake of truth, I didn't argue with anyone, I was just contesting the amendment. So don't make it up. This would be tied to 107 because you harshly violate Parliament's dignity and deceive the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32972	You're speaking directly again, and in the injury of the Rules of Procedure, you're replicating it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32973	I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32974	Don't wave your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32975	It means that just before this was brought out, it was time for you to warn the MPs about this deception, because I didn't challenge anyone. On the contrary, I'm very happy when someone submits the amendments, and by saying that someone wrote it as a foot, I remain there, given the content of the amendment itself, it can indeed be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32976	The injuries of the Rules of Procedure really weren't in this case. It had to be done directly. We had one violation of the Rules of Procedure between us. I ask that everyone pay attention to their behavior and then the dignity of the National Assembly will be kept, and I, as an individual, cannot threaten him so much, nor can I force you not to endanger the dignity of the National Assembly, except to impose financial penalties, which I do not want, because I see that there is no effect. It literally refers to all MPs. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. Thank you. I'm not inclined to continue the debate in this direction, absolutely. We can also be surprised and not be surprised. It's up to me to fill in article 108 to take care of order at the session, and I'm gonna take two minutes from now, because you're using the Rules of Procedure's injuries to give each other kicks under the belt. So, replicated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32977	Rules of Procedure. Well, you've already taken two minutes away from me, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32978	I didn't take anything away, but you won't register. No, I don't. No, the public needs to know because you're replicating. All of a sudden, you want everyone to learn a lesson about how I take someone's time. But it won't work. You register whenever you enter an O.R., then I can call you if you're a nonexistent MP I can't communicate with you. So I won't let you deceive the public for the third time today at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32979	About how much I am a non-existent MP shows statistics that I am one of the most active MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32980	Yeah, but you weren't the most active this morning, so you were invisible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32981	Article 27 of the National Assembly. Dear Presidents, you should have pointed out to a people MP who doesn't read, according to all the laws, that higher education can be completed, that there are people who finish higher education, and they don't manage public systems with high school. So there are gentlemen, there are people who end up... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32982	So you're replicating. It takes five minutes for all MPs to pay a little attention to article 9 which was submitted by an MP who was now addressing and discussing in this direction - whether the director should meet these conditions or those conditions so that we would choose him or, whatever we are already forgetting the matter we are talking about. [[After a break.]] Now it's a calming situation. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? (Marian Risticevic, from the place: I will. Doctor Gordana Zoricželi on the amendment. Dr Gordana Zoric is registered in the system, MP. Here you go. There are MPs, e.g. who are also called Dr Gordana Zoric, I am speaking to you, so he has the right to speak as much as you do. Here you go. I apologize to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32984	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the main reason why this amendment should not be accepted is contained in Article 6 where it is clearly stated, I would not read the previous text, but that the lead investigator must have the appropriate expertise in disaster research and at least nine years of working experience in air or rail or water traffic. The amendment stipulates that the chief investigator has a legal, traffic or police academy. Does anyone think a lawyer can be the lead investigator? The job of researching the causes of accidents in air, rail or water transport is work for technical experts. No matter what he has associates, if the lead investigator is that job requires knowledge from technical science. The lawyer certainly can't have enough knowledge from technical science to qualify him as the lead investigator. What about air engineers, machine engineers, electric engineers and many other professions? That's one thing. Secondly, in addition to the university's completion, the lead investigator will have to have various specializations from areas such as medicine -- a general practitioner can't be a surgeon, but ends up specialising in surgery afterwards. The job of the accident research is very complex and multidisciplinary and if the lead investigator does not have enough knowledge from various areas, he cannot do the job with success. So for these reasons, I believe that because of this particular, legal, traffic or police academy, which excludes other professions of the technical profession, this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32985	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32986	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted. Mr. Djukanovic and Mr. Markovic have already taken some of my notes. In order for something to be accepted and incorporated into the law, it must be thoroughly processed, i.e. to correspond to grammar and spelling, etc. If someone writes that he has graduated from higher education, instead of having a higher education, if he writes – legal, traffic law school and that he has completed the Police Academy, and this police academy begins with a capital letter instead of a small one, it concerns me, because if we put such an amendment into the law, it will make the law completely incomprehensible, that kind of illiteracy cannot be incorporated into any law, not even in this one. Also, this third point - to speak at least one world language - does not exist for me. If we take that the world's language is unique, it's one language. What Mr Djukanovic says – there are more languages in the world. The world language can then be Serbian and Croatian, etc., but it states that a world language, there is no world language. There are different kinds of languages. There's no such language. For these reasons, I advise the MPs not to vote in favour of this amendment for the reason I am concerned, and I am concerned about the high degree of illiteracy of our scientific staff and therefore agree that some doctorates should be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32987	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. Do you want a word? The word is Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32988	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 12, which defines the official ID, we have submitted an amendment to paragraph 3 and proposed that after the words – the centre keeps records of the official IDs issued, that after the words – the centre leads to the addition of words – a unique electronic record of the issued official IDs. We felt that it was necessary for the record to be unique and electronic, and we believe that such keeping of records and in such a form poses an obstacle to possible abuses. In response to our amendment, it states that the amendment is not accepted because Article 12 paragraph 5 provides that the minister responsible for traffic operations will also prescribe a way to keep records of the official IDs issued. It is indicated that it is possible to keep the records and that, as a rule, it is kept in other ways, which we do not, of course, dispute, and, above all, in the form of books, and it is not necessary to adopt this amendment, because it would limit the keeping of the records in electronic form only. With our amendment, we have not limited the keeping of records solely to electronic records, but we have proposed, in fact, the amendment, that is to say, the obligation of the centre to keep a single electronic record. So I would ask the government's representatives to reconsider this and accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32989	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Blagoja Bradic. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32990	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted an amendment to Article 12, which we propose to add a new section 5 and 6 which reads as follows: the holder of the official ID issued for a specified period of time is obliged to return after the expiry of the legitimacy, the legitimacy and – the official legislation issued at a certain time after the expiry of the period to which it has been issued cancels. The amendment was not accepted for reasons of Article 12(5). The draft law stipulates that the way in which the proceedings are carried out will be carried out, the replacement, the withdrawal of official legislation, and the way in which the records of the official legislation issued will be kept closer to the sub-legislative act. That act will identify other relevant legal situations relating to official legislation closer, and it is not necessary to regulate, by means of a proposal for a law, the only situation in which the legislation has expired. I would just like to remind myself that Article 12 provides for the issuing of official legislation, that the issuing of the centre, what the official legislation contains, then that the centre is required to keep records of the official IDs issued, what that record contains, and in the last position says – the minister responsible for traffic operations, in the following text of the minister, prescribes the appearance of the form of official identification of investigators, the way in which the issuing process is conducted, the replacement, the withdrawal of official legislation, as well as the way in which the records are kept on the official IDs issued. We do not dispute that such a sublegal act that the minister should prescribe should exist, but we felt that, in order to prevent various abuses, this article should still be complemented in the text I read in the opinion of the 5th and 6th.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32991	Thank you. The 14th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Would you like a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (No) On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32992	We have made an amendment to Article 18, but I would not like to define it, since it clearly states, because the analysis we had a few minutes ago has led to the fact that Article 4 of this Law is contrary to the Constitution, because this Article 4, and then everyone, including Article 18, is unconstitutional, because Article 4 is founded by a special organisation, and that is possible only if, before that, the Law on Ministries, which, in Article 23, defines exactly what special organisations are. I'm asking you all to look at it, you've got the Internet. There is no centre among these organisations in the existing Ministry Act. Let me remind you, a month ago, on June 19th, we changed the Ministry Act for two words -- anti-building protection, which was transferred from Article 11 to Article 27, or from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, the emergency sector, to Article 27. The Republic hydrometeorological office. So this is unconstitutional. I call upon you to withdraw this law. If that does not happen, Mr Pavicevic and I will apply for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 4 of this Law, which is absolutely against it. Otherwise, the Ministry's site still has that draft I was talking about, where it's not a centre, it's an agency, and the agency is founded under other regulations, and then it could be done without amending the Ministry Act. Like this, it can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32993	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32994	The amendment that my fellow MPs and I have submitted concerns Article 18, which in the basic text of the bill has rubrum – a mixed civil-military commission. According to our proposal, the rubrum should read – a mixed investigative commission. The explanation of the amendments concerns, above all, the use of civilian aircraft and military aircraft. If a civilian aircraft transports military equipment, then it is considered a state aircraft, within the meaning of Article 3 of the already mentioned Chicago Civil Aviation Convention. That's why we intervened in the amendment to talk about the state of the military, domestic or foreign definitions everywhere, because in the basic text of the law, we don't have a situation where the lead investigator will have access to a civilian aircraft carrying military equipment, not that it's not an impossible situation, but we have experience that this is happening. The amendment was not accepted by reason that this solution is more precise, better and more accurate. We think that there is still time to accept our proposal and thus to bring the term "state aircraft" into line with the Chicago Convention, noting that there is really a need for careful consultation of the time in which in one law you define a special organisation, which must be cited in the Ministry Act, especially because we have asked now to finance in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so it must have a precise position. This Article 18, as stated in the text of the bill, refers only to air traffic and I want, as many other members of this law, not to be applied, because this would mean that serious accidents or accidents with tragic consequences and no consequences. But if it is, I'd like it to be quite precisely defined, that it is a mixed investigation committee and that the definitions of aircraft are in accordance with the Chicago Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32995	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Mrs Mihajlovic and the distinguished guests from the ministry, are the two things I would like to announce about our amendment to this member of the bill. First, Mrs. Mihajlović, we called, as you must have read, on Article 3. The Chicago Civil Aviation Convention, which is said to be – If a civilian aircraft transports military equipment, then it is considered a state aircraft, in the sense of the content of Article 3. Chicago Conventions. You refused us the amendment, did not accept the amendment and explained that by accepting the amendments, there would be an extension of the centre's competence to this type of aircraft not covered by the sources of EU law. Then by the logic of the matter, I conclude that the sources of EU law in this case, in your interpretation, could be incompatible with what is contained in Article 3. Chicago Conventions. I really can't understand that. The other thing, Mrs. Mihajlović, I mean equally important or even more important, is that you today, during our debate here, just in conversation with a member of the Parliament, you said – well, how else should we do it than by law? Be careful, Mrs. Mihajlović, it is, of course, a good message, but it is necessary in our action to adhere to the big messages. We have been trying for an hour and a half here to point out that such a bill in certain parts is not possible, Mrs. Mihajlovic, without changing the Ministry Act. This means that if this bill is adopted today, it will be contrary to what you declared this morning – how different than by law. More importantly, contrary to what is contained in Article 3.The Constitution of our Republic and the contents of Article 3. The Constitution of our Republic concerns the basic assumption of our Constitution, which is the rule of law, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32997	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32998	Thank you, Your Honor. I am reporting on the amendment that my colleagues have submitted to the name of Article 18 and Article 18, where they are being changed and spoken, so says - The Mixed Investigation Commission is investigating an accident or a serious aircraft accident if, then point 1, point 2, point 3, point 4. I'd stop at point 5. The respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, mostly because of them -- an accident or an accident occurs when a domestic state aircraft is in contact with a flight control service provider for civilian air traffic. I read item 5, submitted by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic. I don't understand. So these are colleagues from whom we have been hearing praises for days about their submitted and accepted amendments, and the most accepted amendments according to Serbian spelling and grammar. Even counterpart Pavicevic performed various logical and mathematical operations, performed statistics on submitted amendments. He even identified the percentage of accepted amendments with the support of the electoral body. That one colleague who has the most submitted amendments, accepted amendments in accordance with Serbian spelling and grammar, make a cardinal mistake just like this. So, one very important piece of information, and several times the question has been asked by colleagues Pavicevic and his colleagues, how many amendments did they vote for? By the time we get the answer, we will understand both citizens, and we already know here as SNS MPs why, but Serbian citizens do not know the reason for this number of amendments submitted. Are the amendments submitted in order to improve the proposed laws, or for some other purpose? With the answer, we'll get it. In voting day, I will not vote for an amendment that is not in line with the grammar and spelling of the Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u32999	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33000	A question has been asked about the vote on the amendments we are submitting. I thought it was clear to everyone in Serbia, but if not, I'm willing to explain some things to you. The amendments are submitted by the opposition MPs to convince the government that their bill is bad. The vote on amendments is not a pagan ritual, in which there is a need for a personal presence, a torch or some other insignation, but a technical question. Everywhere the government has a majority, as is now the case in parliament, which is dominant, the opposition does not attend the vote, but this paganism, this attitude towards parliament as something pagan, of course, will never be marked by Mr Pavicevic or me. That our presence would lead to you voting for our amendments being at a level of naiveness that I really don't want to compare to anything. Therefore, if you think that the orderly presence of the voting sessions is the charging of the imaginary use of your own vehicle to hold imaginary meetings of the parliamentary club, as most in parliament do, if you think that's the purpose of parliament, then tell the citizens of Serbia. We think that the purpose of Parliament is to pass good laws, and that when the government proposes good law, then we vote for this law without amendments. If we think the law is not good enough, then we're trying to fix that law with amendments. If the government doesn't accept it, we don't want to take part in a vote that's pagan to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33001	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. It has the advantage of MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33002	Article 107. - insulting Parliament's dignity. Someone here called the emissaries of the pagans. Did you hear what he said? How could you not have warned him? He called on SNS MPs to use pagan customs or whatever, whether they would vote or not to vote for their amendments. But the bottom line is, I guess it's the elemental order to vote for your amendment if you think he's fixing the law. By not coming to meetings to vote for their amendment, they show how bad their amendments are. That's the essence of the whole story. They don't believe what they're writing. Please, in the future, when someone so offended the MPs, because if someone acts like that, we might look that way, as they just said, because pagan is, you know, like, believing in oak or something. I would ask you to warn that MP, because it's the harshest possible insult and for, say, trusting people or whatever. No one has the right to impute such an epithet to SNS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33003	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear that. If you are right, I apologize to the MPs because I did not warn MP Zivkovic, but Mr Zivkovic said several things that do not correspond to the truth, as well as the payment of parliamentary meetings of MPs clubs and others. These are some times that have long, long gone, so it's not a practice now, nor is it legally possible by the decisions of the Administrative Board, so I apologize because it deceives the public when it comes to it. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Does anyone else have any of the business reports? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and distinguished guests from the ministry, are two things I now wish to announce in the replica of the honourable MP, Mrs. Vlahovic. First of all, I am grateful to Mrs. Vlahovic for that part of her speech in which she praised that we are the People's MPs of the New Party's most active peoples MPs in this assembly of the National Assembly, gentlemen. And not only that, but I am grateful that Mrs Vlahovic praised that we are the most active in the debates, in the submission of amendments, and that she reminded all of our MPs here that of the total number of amendments submitted by the People's MPs of the New Party, Mr Zoran Zivkovic and I, until now, in these years and two months, was accepted 6.5%, gentlemen. I always make a certain type of analogy with support in the electoral body and come, by my analogy, by one logic, to the conclusion that there has been enough for a year and two months of intense, dedicated, persistent work in the National Assembly that the New Party in the Election Body in our Republic has the support of 6.5%. I remind all the MPs here and Mr Neđa Jovanovic, who with attention, I see, follows the course, that our goal is not to stay on these 6.5%, to hear Mrs Vlahovic, of course Minister Mihajlovic, but that our idea, gentlemen, is to have 20% support in the electoral body after the next parliamentary elections. The second thing is that both Mrs Vlahovic and Mr Orlic and Mrs Mihajlovic hear that our argument for this amendment is to uphold the principle of rule of law. How come the MPs of the SNS don't respond to one attack on the rule of law, gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33005	Mrs. Vlahovic, there's a minister's advantage, so you'll get the word. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33006	Thank you. I'll be very brief. As far as your stand in the electoral body is concerned, everyone chooses the illusions they will live.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33007	Thank you. The Republic has a national emissary Sonja Vlahovic, and then Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33008	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I have the right to a replica, I have the same right to have an answer that I didn't get. I also think, when you believe in your amendments that you submit, even if they are in accordance with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language, which are immediately part of the law, and when you believe in the amendments written with the text, it is deleted, if you believe so much, then you come and vote in favour of that amendment. By doing so, you show both the opposition and the citizens of Serbia that you are constantly up to these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33009	Thank you, Mrs. Vlahovic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33010	I thank you, Mr. Becic. As for pagan customs, which Zoran Zivkovic spoke of, the pagan custom was to burn down the building of the National Assembly, or then the Federal Assembly. What was the name of Mr. Zivkovic, was Maka, who was the leader of those who came in...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33011	Please, Mr. Martinovic, speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33012	... In the building of this assembly, stealing art paintings, chairs, chairs, burning torches here? So all these pagan rituals were celebrated by you on October 5, 2000. You said all of us MPs in the National Assembly, right, could use the Internet. I've heard from you a few times today an incredible nonsense from a man who, on a major accident, was once the Prime Minister, who was that the accident research centre, which is defined by this law as a special organisation, cannot be defined and that this centre is created at all without a change of the Ministry Act, so you've made this a number of times and you said it was not in accordance with the Constitution, etc. Here, I will now use this famous internet and, behold, the Ministry Act in force, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 44/2014, 14/2015 and 54/2015 Article 1: "This law educates ministries and special organisations and determines their work. “ This is Article 1. Article 1(2) Mrs. Mihajlovic, if only you had any idea what kind of ignorance you're dealing with. "Special organisations can be educated and their work can also be established by special law. “ So it says in the current Ministry Act, that special organizations, and the centre is defined as a special organization, can also be educated by a special law. It's this law we're talking about today. We've been listening for hours to a man who knows more about pagan customs, hanging out with Chumet, Legion, arms smuggling, etc. than in laws, how this is an unconstitutional law, how we have to amend the Ministry Act. Imagine the tragedy of this country that the Prime Minister was a man who did not know that special organizations, and in his day, were able to educate some other laws, not the Ministry Act. And it's clear to everyone. It is not only clear to a man who has no interest in anything else in life, but to become someone and something in this country in an illegal, anti-constitutional way. Fortunately, that time is over and I hope it never happens again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33013	Thank you. Since we have a lot of reports, I just need to determine the order. Mr. Orlic, you're after the amendment? Yeah. Mrs. Comic? By amendment. You'll get your word, Mr. Zivkovic, I just need to be in order. Mr. Ristichevich? By amendment. Mr. Djukanovic? By amendment. The word then comes from MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica of Mr Martinovic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33014	First, it is true that Article 1 paragraph 2 states what a colleague said. Secondly, it's true that there is a member of the 23rd same law, so it's really sad, tragic, or whatever, pick something out of those words that we just heard, that someone who boasts he's a lawyer, and it's supreme, that he doesn't know how to read the whole law. Well, that doesn't surprise me. The mass of insults that have been made, while you have not acted as chairman, insult and untrue, of course, with the satisfaction of colleagues from the ruling states, of course, is talking about the atmosphere in this House. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Is it true that you burned the Assembly? How many art paintings did you take? This throw also speaks of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33015	Please, Mr. Martinovic, allow me. Mr. Granny, please. Please, allow me, you're not interrupted. Please, Mr. Martinovic, you are not interrupted, allow Mr. Zivkovic to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33016	That took 15 seconds, so please give me back 15 seconds. There are supposed to be wise people who say that one man's strength is measured by the power of his enemies. I disagree with that definition because that would mean I'm a very weak man. On the contrary, there are some other wise people who say that the strength of a man is measured by the strength of his friends and the correctness of his ideas and, from that position, I am a very strong man and I am proud of it. And that, those pagan audio expressions that you use further just confirms my thesis from this last address. Finally, October 5th, the brightest date of modern Serbian history. The burning of parliament was not done by the people who led the 5th of October, it was done by the fuck who came after.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33017	Time. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. ) (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to a replica, Mr. Martinovic, but Mr. Djukanovic - a breach of the Rules of Procedure, has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33018	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I beg you again, Article 107, has again called us "pagans". You had to warn him. I don't know, here's another time and I'm warning you. It's totally amazing, it's an insult to people, to be called pagans. And this -- who burned Parliament, because you said it was the fucker, so I didn't see any of them being prosecuted or arrested. On the contrary, some of you have been rewarded, have become very important in the state. That's what no one, of course, will forget. I implore you in the future to warn a messenger who insults the messengers of the people like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33019	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I said that I would look into the rock notes what Mr. Zivkovic said, and now he has said "paganic customs" so I felt that I should not react at this time, but I would also ask on one hand and on the other to try not to really destroy Parliament's dignity in future discussions. Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement? No, I don't. Thank you. Replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic at the exhibition of Mr. Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33020	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't uttered an absolute single lie. The fact is, on October 5th, it was those who ran that so-called. The democratic revolution burned not only the Federal Assembly at the time, but also set the Serbian Radio Television Building on fire. Those people you call fucks back then were heroes of your five-eyed revolution, Maka, Bugsy. Do you remember taking pictures with the Legion that evening on October 6th? He was a hero on October 5th, because he turned his back on his then boss Slobodan Milosevic and stood by your side. In 2003, he became enemy of the state number one. Do you remember a bunch of 50 people beat up a man, the director of Serbian Radio Television? Do you remember that? Do you remember those embarrassing images that didn't happen in the world's most underdeveloped states, in this most bright day in Serbian history, as you say, that from the burning Federal Assembly there are chairs, artistic photographs, televisions, stone lamps, ask God what wasn't? Do you remember, and he's absolutely right, Mr. Marian Risticevic, that you shared weapons from a police station on Mother Jevrosima Street? Well, that's all the facts. That's true. That's what happened on those October 2000 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33021	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33022	I'm not proud of what we should be proud of or I don't know what we're grateful for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33023	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33024	So, you've done something with this country that no one has done before you and I hope that nothing else will happen. Here's a picture of Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33025	Mr. Martinovic, I have to interrupt. I'm taking a short break because this doesn't lead to anything. We can't have MPs hostage replicas. We need to get back to the debate. Whoever wants to talk about amendments to this law will have the opportunity to speak. [[After a break.]] We continue to work on the amendment that is under way. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33027	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the amendment, first of all, I would like to remind myself of those arguments made by my colleague Vlahovic before we came into the debate on many other issues. Again, let's talk seriously about how we should do it. It's a matter of quality. You've heard it yourself, distinguished promoters, we've got a problem of inappropriate quality again. Language irregularities, my colleague mentioned item 5, unfortunately they're not the only ones. In addition, I would also point out that I have reservations according to the term "investigation", but we will talk about it safely and on some other suggestions when it comes to the amendments ahead. A brief comment on some more, call, reasons we heard during the debate today, whether the amendment should or should not be accepted. Among other things, the question of voting, is anyone who proposes something should vote for it and vote, and what kind of message does it send to others, what does it say to them if they should support his proposal? I agree with the fact that grades like that pagan custom, as we've heard today, are absolutely inappropriate and have no place for them today. But it certainly has a lot to do with whether someone is willing to support their own solution and some concrete part with the impression it makes on others. There is, because I can really confirm the impression that the colleague made, that often the behavior of some here reminds them to say, I think it's a group called "No Smoking" – acts like a poet who doesn't believe in his own lyrics. Often some things work that way here, but to be very precise, why doesn't someone vote for their own amendments? The thing is more than clear to all of us who are here often. Because during the vote, unfortunately there's not too much room to be in the big shot, it's going to be one of the main motives for everything he's doing here. The second thing, does the percentage of the amendments accepted have or does it have anything to do with the reasons why something new is proposed to be accepted or not? Well, of course not. So no one here refuses because it comes from a certain side, not even a number, a statistical measure result, and on that basis makes a decision – well, now we'll accept, now we won't. So, I call on us to be more than serious about this, and to forget about those almost-and-so-painted attempts to recalculate some of the statistics and draw some conclusions in order to talk a lot and a lot. Before we get into a situation to count the percentage of the amendments accepted, so some as an implication of support in the voting body, one day, far away, some MP here begins his presentation with words – this morning I went to the session, I started to get dressed, and I found two shoes both of them, so 100 percent of people support me. Let's get serious, please. Last thing, does anyone who considers themselves the most active suggest something amendments have anything to do with whether his proposal should be respected? Well, there certainly isn't. But I'll share another impression with you. Very often when I hear from some of them – we are the most active in this, that aspect, for this or that reason. I can think of an anecdote that related to the former JNA. You know, there was that grading system on the descriptive principle. Well, as it was, the grades were unsatisfactory, satisfying, outlining, and particularly prominent as the highest grade. There was an informal one, unnecessarily hanging out. I don't know what I'm thinking right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33028	Thank you. The word has a people's letter... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Pavicevich. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33029	It has been said in the debate on this amendment that it does not understand absolutely point 5 because of the crashes in which the aircraft's noun is located. And, let me explain, point 5. – an accident or an accident occurs when it is a domestic aircraft. It is a plane, a aircraft, an aircraft containing the president of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, at the time of the accident, and on a flight plan from Belgrade to the Vatican. The second part of point 5. – in radio contact with the flight control service provider for civilian air traffic. It's radio surveillance for civilian air traffic addressed by a U.S. air pilot. That's the point. It's the Chicago Convention. With respect to the fact that the letter "a" in the word "aircraft" is excess, all the other explanations are needed, why is it necessary to be an investigative committee and not a military civilian? It also shows the misunderstanding that has arisen from reading point 5 of the amendment which we have submitted to the name of Article 18 and Article 18. If there is any further misunderstanding of what a point is, I am available to explain what it looks like in application and why it is important for the amendment to be accepted because, for example, we have point 4. – that an accident or an accident of civil aircraft occur on landing, take off from a military airport or if an accident or an accident of a domestic airship occurs on landing, take off from a civilian airport. It is also a situation that I can set an example for you, not to miss to say that I am glad that the example I mentioned is to explain point 5 because the domestic state aircraft that I am in is the one that the president of Serbia has gone through without any more serious consequences. Who was a flight control service provider for civilian air traffic is neither mine nor guesses to share information with you. It would be the work of a mixed investigation committee that would in that case determine how to communicate with civilian flight control. If the unclear point 1 in the amendment - in a serious accident was involved by a civilian aircraft and domestic or foreign state aircraft. Also, you have examples of where these situations have occurred and it is important for us to respect the Chicago Convention when it comes to the name and investigation committee and the name of the state aircraft and because in cases where they are exclusively military aircraft you will not be able to have access under this law, you will prevent your own lead investigator from collecting information and collecting data on the accident that took place. For a fall in which word, if that was a reason not to understand, I can understand it. As part of the excess letter "a" in the aircraft's directory, but I think that, I hope now, everyone who was curious about what Article 5 means on the basis of an example we unfortunately witnessed, that means Article 5, and that's a state aircraft. I'm sorry, point 5. I apologize for the incorrect use of the directory member where it is the place to talk about the point of amendment to Article 18(5). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33030	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33031	Thank you. At first I'll just say two lines of Alexa Chantić – about my class under the bare hills, my black bread, the blood of the hoarded. This is dedicated to my colleagues by the torture and sweat, farmers who were brutally slaughtered, massacred on this day 16 years ago, in Kosovo and Metohija, in Old Grack. We owe that brother by the torture and sweat, at least to mention this, since no one was punished for this crime, if 14 stray dogs had been killed, someone would have been punished, and no one had been punished for these peasant brothers. As far as the amendment is concerned, I suggest he refuses for cheating. You know that punishment in elementary school, high school for copying is what? Negative rating. You know that the amendment promoters themselves assess themselves positively if they correct any grammatical, spelling or any other spelling error. They themselves are praised for the number of amendments adopted. Now let's give them a little commendation and copying. That's what they called us, the pagans, we don't. So, when someone copys, and it's orthodox copying, so Article 20, Article 21, Article 22, are in the same text as three different proposings and all three promoters have when it's domestic and national and aircraft. So the same literal grammatical error, the same spelling error, and it's impossible that it happened unless there was a copying. For this reason, I propose that MPs do not adopt this amendment by any chance because the law would then sound obscenities, and on the other hand, we must not reward copyists regardless of what is going on in the case of finished students, finished high school students, etc., not wanting to offend any amendment promoters because of school preparation. I don't doubt the wisdom of the promoter. Wisdom comes with age, unfortunately some come only years. A wise man reads wise books, but he reads himself. A wise man will never say – me and Mr. Babic will always say – Mr. Babic and I. Because if someone says - me and that and that, we will apply for a constitutionality assessment, it has not only shown arrogance, it has also shown disrespect for its colleague and therefore I believe that his colleague should also imagine and consider whether he should support the amendment of his colleague, given that they have proposed the same proposal, i.e. the copying have the same proposal of three amendments, and therefore I ask that Members of Parliament be punished as in primary school copyists. If we can't get rid of them, we can negatively evaluate them and not adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33032	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33033	I don't know if there's any talking past the agenda or not, because if there is, then would I be past the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33034	Mrs. Comic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33035	If there isn't, then I'll talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33036	You will discuss the agenda as Mr. Risticevic spoke to the amendment. His vision, the explanation of this amendment, why it should not be adopted, he does so very funnyly, but he spoke of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33037	You think it's funny, in the context of the amendment, to talk about people's deaths. That's what you find funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33038	You know very well that I didn't mean it, and I was talking about this last thing he said, and that part that he said at first... Mrs. Komic, if you think that first sentence should be commented on, I don't want to comment on it, if you would like to have a seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33039	I don't comment on a sentence, I ask if there's any to speak beyond the agenda? If there is, that we're all in on it, if there isn't, I'd like to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33040	Mrs. Komic, you're very funny, please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33041	Thank you. Our proposal to be a "mixed investigating commission" instead of the title "mixed civil-military commission", is based in the Chicago Convention. It would be good to think again about why it would be better to accept it as a "mixing investigative commission". The explanation that this is not in line with European integration does not stand. Since when we propose an amendment, we know what it says in the Convention, what it is in European directives, or legislation that is in line with what we also want to be part of European legislation. A mixed civil-military commission will limit the lead investigator. I can only repeat that I would like none of the cases, none of the points in Article 18 to be the subject of the work of the lead investigator or assistant. But if we're already defining through the points of very special conditions where the state aircraft is involved, then that should be the title of the member and be the jurisdiction of the lead investigator. On the contrary, our view is that it is in line with the rules applicable in this area and in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33042	The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33043	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed minister, the associates, of course this amendment should not be adopted, and I will try several sentences to explain why. First and foremost, there is no objection relating to the citation of Article 3. Chicago Conventions and the mention of the term - State aircraft. It's something that's right here in the 1st position under point 3) clearly defined in a way that would be without any need to explain later. You've read Article 3. The Chicago Conventions, and he is here literally and used at this point 3. If there has been an accident or a serious accident, civil, add-on and foreign military aircraft, which transports funds for special purposes for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia. That's exactly what it says in Article 3. Chicago Conventions, clearly defined. When it comes to aircraft operated by one of the statesmen of our Republic of Government, the President, any of those who consider themselves to be persons who can use aircraft, or aircraft, helicopters for the purpose of their transport, this law also applies because they are aircraft located in the register, civil, which is in the jurisdiction of the Director of Civil Aviation. They do not need to be particularly apostrophyd as state aircraft, because all aircraft, all aircraft located in the Civil Aviation Directorate's register, are in the jurisdiction of this centre, so there is no need for special emphasis. In order to make it more clear to you, when it comes to a specific case related to our president's flight to Italy, in general all air incidents, in civil and air traffic, are called events and they are all in the event category. Whether it will receive one of the characteristics, which will undermining itself under the authority of the lead investigator, is also clearly defined by this law. Is it an accident or a serious accident? The event you specifically talked about remained at the level of the event and as such recorded and left behind by the government, the airline to investigate what was next to it, to eventually investigate what was up to it. All civil and air traffic organizations are doing their job by respecting their jurisdiction, responsibility, and everything else above that, would be mixing into work, and to say their independence. As for mentioning, and yet regarding what you have proposed in point 5 of your amendment, you must also know that flying control of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro is one integrated system and implies, unites both civil and military aviation. This is once again a crucial segment related to the airspace defined, the schedule of competences within the area of civil air traffic, military flight and, absolutely, is an integrated system which should not be particularly highlighted as such, because the jurisdiction of the investigation in the area to be conducted by the military or the Ministry of Defence and in the part that should be run by the civilian government is divided on the basis of one essential criterion to which the whole issue of air traffic relates, which is the carrier of traffic, it is the means of transport, it is the aircraft and, in relation to it, all the other divisions and all the other regulations, in relation to the aircraft.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33044	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. Mrs. Comic, you've re-applyed after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33045	Thank you. It is necessary that we clarify this in the dialogue because I think I am speaking against the amendments we have submitted, the MP spoke in his favour because, hopefully never again, the incident in the aircraft president's plane crashes, also only the air service and flight control will have access, the lead investigator will not. Point 3, which is quoted, I therefore insist that this be a state aircraft and be a mixed investigative committee, because I want the lead investigator to have access and cases when we have, never applied, but unfortunately we have to talk, accidents, events or accidents in air traffic, and point 3, which is quoted as saying that there has been an accident and a serious accident of civil or foreign military aircraft carrying means of special purpose for the needs of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia. It has nothing to do with the Chicago Convention. It only speaks of the powers of the Ministry of Defence, and you can have over the sky a state aircraft, a civilian aircraft carrying military equipment of any state and therefore it is important to talk about a mixed investigation committee, not only when it comes to what our government and our defence minister have, but you may also have a case that it is not an aircraft that is working for the purposes of the Ministry of Defense. Why won't the amendment be accepted first or last? I wouldn't spend our time together on clarifications if I could calm my conscience to hear insufficient knowledge or advance consent that detail was enough and covering all possible cases of article 18 written. It's not. I would like it never to be shown to the reality of how right I am, because it is more important to me that an accident or an event that the chief investigator will not have jurisdiction, but that I, in dialogue with anyone here, show whether I am able to justify the difference between the airships in which the President of the Republic or not the difference between the aircraft of a civilian in which my defence minister is using for military purposes or the civilian aircraft of Norway used to transfer third-party military equipment, and the accident happens in the airspace, or on the ground of the Republic of Serbia. You're gonna tell us what we care? Well, we don't care. We care that, in such cases, the lead investigator has the same approach under this law as we would all like to say, there was no repeat investigation, now it is not just a similar law when it comes to the fall of the Macedonian President Boris Trajkovski's airship, so I thank the opportunity to try several times to explain with hope that there will be no event that will show how right we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33046	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The word has the People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic, the applicant of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33047	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests from the ministry, before I start talking about article 18. Mrs. Mihajlović I would like, my colleagues turned my attention to me, I did a lapus by explaining Article 9 and perhaps hurt someone with it, I sincerely apologize. I was thinking of men and women talking about the lead investigator, i.e. The director of the center, and I said whether he's a man or a woman, I'm really sorry he didn't mean to. I don't like being insulted by others, and I don't want to insult others, so I'm really sorry to the women's sex, I didn't mean it. Now let's move on to Article 18. So, we've given an amendment where, for the sake of citizens, we've talked about a mixed civil-military commission, where, after paragraph 1 after point 3 we've added point 4 and Section 1 is talking about a mixed civil-military commission investigating an accident or a serious aircraft accident, so it says 1) civil aircraft, domestic or foreign military aircraft, participated in an accident, domestic or foreign military aircraft; 2) if the crash site is a civilian or foreign military aircraft military facility or another object of major importance for the defence of the country; 3) if there has been an accident or a serious accident of civil or foreign military aircraft carrying funds for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army or transport of funds for export purposes. We added a point 4 that says – if there was an accident or a serious accident of domestic military aircraft that carried civilian faces. The next stance tells your bill, Madam Minister, that half of the members in the mixed civil-military commission are appointed by the centre, and the other half of the members are appointed by the minister, responsible for defence affairs, we absolutely agree. Then, the mixed civil-military commission is chaired by the lead investigator or lead investigator for air traffic, and that is fine, the conditions under which a mixed civil-military commission is called the way it works and the way it investigates accidents and serious accidents, is more regulated by the government's regulation on a proposal from the minister, with the agreement of the defence minister. We add three other positions that read – to the lead investigator, i.e. the chief investigator for air traffic, as well as members of a mixed civil-military commission that appoints the centre cannot be restricted, reduced or abolished powers, or duties under this law. We further add – The provisions of this law relating to the powers and duties of the centre in the investigation procedure in the area of air traffic are also applied accordingly to the mixed civil-military commission. Another point that says – All the documentation, information and evidence collected during the investigation, or that they were created in connection with the investigation or as a result of an investigation by a mixed civil-military commission in accordance with this law, as a report on the investigation of a mixed civil-military commission, takes over the centre and treats it in accordance with this law because you in earlier members have already said that the centre is acting in accordance with the approachal, i.e. I've received information. You have replied that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the above point applies only to military aircraft operations, which are subject to other regulations, and the part relating to the addition of paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 is not accepted for the reasons that those provisions are not subject to the regulation of this law. I think we're right. I think that if the Assembly accepts our amendment, we will have a high-quality member of this law who will define more clearly the administration and obligations and powers, as well as the handling of the information that comes during the investigation into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33048	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33049	Let's just point out once again, under the four members you've put in, that there's been an accident, so you add 1, 2, 3 to the 4th, and you add that there's been an accident or a serious domestic accident, let's say again, a military aircraft carrying civilians. So it's not in the jurisdiction of this law, it's in the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, and we've said it a few times so far, and that's the only reason why this can't be an integral part of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33050	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you refuse this amendment, but please read it carefully. The reason is in what's written and what I'm going to read. It says item 4 in the amendment -- there is a reasonable doubt that airships have experienced accidents and serious accidents. Madam Minister, you must explain to me whether the aircraft can live? I didn't know that. He's going to be here a little while longer and he's going to write that we're giving him artificial breathing. If this is written by one scientist, and one peasant notices, I don't know who the peasant is, and who the scientist is. This amendment, gentlemen, you must refuse, you must not vote for the law to enter that the aircraft is alive. Maybe it's funny to someone, I don't. To me, this raises the suspicion that certain names of diplomas, titles, scientific titles are no longer a confirmation of knowledge, but a confirmation of political ties, money, etc., I don't know how they were acquired. If someone writes that an aircraft lives, it's amazing, and that's what a doctor is, science. I have yet another purpose for telling you to refuse the amendment, to clearly see the difference between knowledge and calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33052	Thank you. On behalf of the 20th and Article 20th amendments in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr. Bečić, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and distinguished guests from the Ministry, we have also submitted the amendment to this member of the bill, and I have listened carefully today to Minister Mihajlović, read the explanation and reply of Minister Mihajlovic, that everyone has the right to his illusion. That is what Minister Mihajlovic said today during our debate at the amendment session on this bill. It is necessary, dear Mr Becic, that Minister Mihajlovic, I recommend this on the subject of our amendment to this article of the proposal for a book-reading law. I don't have a copy here now, otherwise I'd like to present that book to Mrs. Mihajlovic, but I recommend reading, author John Plamenac, one of the greatest political theorists, lecturer at the University of Oxford, respected gentlemen, wrote the work, Mrs. Mihajlovic, "Democracy and Illusion", respected gentlemen. In that part, Mrs. Mihajlović, Mr. Plamenac, Professor Plamenac, analyzes certain doubts in democracy, and I see that your participation in the debate today is on the trail, as soon as you attach to the rule of law, Mrs. Mihajlovic. He analyzes the suspicions of democracy, which were first argued by utilitarians, respected gentlemen, then anarchomarksists, then representatives of the academic attack on democracy, such as Michael, Sparato, Moscow, and then analyzes certain ideas about the democracy of other writers, such as Shum Peter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33054	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33055	I think, Mrs. Mihajlović, in order to read and read such a reading, surely we all contribute to a more high-quality debate and this bill, so when the illusion of democracy is mentioned, I think that the relevant literature should be mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33056	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Zoran Babic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33057	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1). I listen very carefully to Mr Pavicevic and, apart from those 13 seconds, how long it took him to list all the representatives of the ministry, which is polite, correct and fine, the other two minutes a single word on the name of Article 20 and Article 20 did not say a single word about the investigative commission. I know that he would like to be a great illusionist and that here the policies he implements and the ideas he implements are more for Copperfield than for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I ask you to pay attention to this session. People's MPs and MPs of the SNS are carefully prepared, carefully read every law, read every amendment carefully, and talk about amendments. On the other hand, the amendment promoter remained silent today when his colleague, or in a jargon used by his boss, called himself here animals, and we know that Dr. Dulitil was famous for learning the language of animals and that he became famous for it. And that everyone else is silent, that the amendment promoter remains silent on something like that, and now, he's going to make you break the Rules of Procedure, here he talks about everything and everything, about teachers I have one great opinion about and their ideas and about the books they published. But when the topic of the agenda is democracy and illusion, then we can listen to such tyrades.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33058	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33059	In the meantime, someone better sit down and shut up, because obviously when they're not talking about the amendment, it means that it was a copying school again and again one of them was cheating, except there's absolutely no explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33060	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You're right. I thought the gentleman who suggested the amendment realized that by mistake he had proposed the amendment and had nothing to say about it and that's why he was talking about something else. I didn't want to interrupt it, but you're absolutely right, and from this moment on, I'm going to keep an eye on it, and I'm not going to say that none of the MPs, whether they're explaining the amendment or saying the opposite, that the amendment should not be accepted, I'm going to try not to let it speak out of the question or the amendment that's on the agenda. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33061	The amendment to Article 20, to the name and to the member himself, the investigative commission, in that term we change the term working group. The answer is that this is rejected because the novelty in the whole text of the bill's proposal is such that the working group's term is used, so the adoption of the amendment would lead to the inequality of the bill's proposal. Come on, it may be formally acceptable, but you'll admit that the investigative commission, if we already have a mixed investigative commission in Article 18, is a much more appropriate term than a working group. The task force is usually in this country and in its policy a compromised story a long time ago, but it wasn't your intention, I'm not talking about it at all. That may have been the intention of whoever wrote this law, but I'm not going back for it either. In any case, we will agree that in the spirit of Serbian language, and also in relation to Article 18, where a mixed investigation committee is mentioned, it is much more logical that this working group is called an investigative committee. There's no reason for us to have a big debate about it, if the term working group is already applied in the text, so we could change it in the whole text, you could give that initiative to either us or the board of directors or the government to change it, and that would be the right answer. So, again, we have come to the fact that an amendment that is meaningful is rejected, which has enough reason to be proposed for reasons that are completely pointless. As it would be pointless to bury an early Christian tomb or to cut a 600-year-old oak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33062	I have to keep my promise not to let it speak out of the amendments, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33063	Just to remind you that no amendment has been accepted which was proposed that instead of a mixed civil-military commission we have a mixed investigative commission, since you're here when you explained why we wouldn't turn the task force into an investigative committee, you said – when we might already have a mixed investigative commission, then that we only have an investigation. So, no amendment has been accepted, and neither has this amendment been accepted, because then in the whole law, they would change it. That's how I understood. I'm sorry if I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33064	Thank you. The proposal is proposed by the amendment MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33065	Thank you. It's a consequent amendment. Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is absolutely right and the explanation of the resulting amendment exists only because he shows consistency that once you make a change in a member, as in this case in Article 18, where we are to put in place a "mixed civil war" "mixed investigation", then you must in each of the following article, of course, submit an amendment to which it will be changed. I understand the proposal's position that it does not want a defined, clear responsibility of the lead investigator in this area, but I also ask for an understanding that it would be inconclusive to submit an amendment to Article 18, in the name of Article 18, and that we do not then submit any subsequent amendments to which the amendment is accepted the term "civil-military" is being accepted and we are looking for a replacement with the "exploratory commission". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33066	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33067	The amendment to Article 21(3) that the words ‘work groups’ are changed in the words ‘examination committees’. A short time ago, the minister said it was not true that the amendment, which reads as "mixed", was the essence of the "mixed commission", but that the text remained "a military-civil mixed commission", if I understood correctly, or "a military-civil commission". The point is on the board. Not in the mix, not in the civil-military, but the thing is, there's no working group. You can gather the task force on the street, as you are doing now, and the commission has its founding place in protocols where exactly who knows what they are doing, and it is not what has been written again in the report of the Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate since 14 March this year. So these are the reasons why we suggested this and it's completely unreasonable to reject this proposal and I'm not going to say no to oak or early Christian basilica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33068	That's funny. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr Becic, respected Mrs Mihajlovic and distinguished guests from the ministry, I did not want to report first to the Rules of Procedure, but I will now try to explain this amendment to the chairman, Mr Bečić, that it is really not appropriate to react affirmably to proposals by MPs who suggest that we do not use literature as part of the preparation for participation in the debate at the National Assembly session. Well, it is understood, gentlemen, Mr. Becic, when the minister mentions the illusions and she mentions it to me in the amendment... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33070	Mr Pavicevic, I have been warned by the president of the SNS parliamentary group that I am allowing to talk about an issue that is not on the agenda, not to mention amendments that are under way. So I said I would strictly respect the Rules of Procedure and not allow MPs to speak out of the question. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I am not speaking outside the topic. You're very funny today and in those benches, I can't say in the MP group. Please, if you're going to talk about amendment Article 21, here you go, and if you don't want to, I'll think you're a mistake, that you realize you haven't submitted an amendment that can be explained and you simply don't need to talk. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33071	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr Bečić, respected Mrs Mihajlović and distinguished guests from the ministry, I note, Mr Bečić, that intensive consultations on the reasons for our amendment to this article are ongoing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33072	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a National MP Gordana Komic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33073	Thank you. The amendment is consequent. So, if you introduce a "examination commission" instead of a "work group", you want to keep saying "exploratory commission" instead of "work group". But with the amendment to Article 21, I have a question that I have announced during the debate in principle, that there will be questions that I consider important, but I will leave them for discussion in particular. In fact, Article 21 says in point 3. – authorised representatives of accident investigation bodies and serious accidents of countries notified of an accident or a serious accident may participate in the work of the working group. What I miss and what is the question – how do they participate in the work group? A previous member of the task force established by the Centre for the Research of Accidents says it is composed of a staff centre and that the main investigator's solution forms that other persons can participate in the last position of Article 20, and now in 21 we open the possibility that authorised representatives of the competent authorities to investigate accidents and serious accidents of countries that are being notified of the accident are also participating in the task force. Does this mean that they have the same status as what we have defined in Article 20 to enter into a solution that the task force is forming or is intended to have some kind of different protocol for them by way of an article. The law cannot be seen, and I think it would be a common benefit to be fully clear on what protocol will the persons, representatives of other countries' authorities, participate in the work of the task force? Our proposal remains to be a "examination committee", but this is unrelated to the fact that we are looking for a change in the way a group of people are formed to investigate the accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33074	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33075	Authorised representatives of the competent authorities, as you said, for the investigation of accidents, etc. who can participate determine who will participate, determines the lead investigator as necessary. If he believes that someone else should participate, if some authorised representative of the competent authorities should participate in this task force, he is the one who will assess who and whether or not he should participate and they must, of course, be members of the task force. About some more detailed protocol, that's what's going to be arranged at the very center of the accident research. So, I think I answered. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33076	The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33077	Dear Vice-President Becic, the honourable minister with his associates, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I suggest that MPs not accept the amendment of the proposings because of this in the first order that the amendment's proposing stressed that the accent is on the group. Well, just when it's on the group, then I have to say that it's a constitutional legal term used not only in this law but also in many other laws. The term – group means a group or a group of people at work – Serbian-Croatian language dictionary Matica Serbian 1971 Book 1, 585 pages. Therefore, it is very clear, and the term "commission" has been determined to perform some kind of task or job, for example. the examination committee, the medical commission, the religious commission, the recruiting commission, the agricultural commission, the winery commission, etc. Therefore, the term "working group" is quite appropriate, Mr. Vice-President, and tell the amendment's promoter that he is wrong and that the Government's proposal is completely adequate and better and corresponds to the essence of the member of the law in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33078	I thank Dr. Atlagic. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33079	Thank you. Just to clear up the misunderstanding. So, there's been an accident, an accident, a serious accident, and we're informing the state of that accident, so another state and then authorized representatives of the competent authorities from that country are members of the task force by solving the lead investigator.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33080	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33081	Two things. First, there is certain co-operation between the two countries, at the first moment, and among other things, the sublaw will define the exact way in which the competent, therefore authorised representatives of the competent authorities involved in the work of the working group will be competent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33082	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33083	Dear Vice-President, dear Minister, distinguished associates, of course I suggest that this amendment is not accepted, and we should just take a look at the whole of the legislative proposal, and then probably the amendment itself would have done a little bit, let me say, unsynchronized. We've had, and that's what we started with, we've had the Air Traffic Act, we've had the concept of the commission that you're talking about, which, unfortunately, by this Law, and I didn't want to talk about it at the beginning, which, in 2010, we've denied the Director's jurisdiction in these affairs, passed it on to a new body, and didn't allow it to function in any way. There was a complete opposition to working in the investigations you're talking about, about the civil air force again, because on the one hand there were commissions, and on the other hand there was a Centre. This legislative proposal puts full competence in the hands of the Centre as an institution, not commissions that could be seen as independent and in this sense non-synchronised with the whole investigation procedure as it should be conducted in order to ultimately have its own result, which is a security recommendation. So connecting a member of the law relating to a mixed military-civil commission and working groups is not possible either. It is precisely because the previous article speaks of two institutions, two state entities forming one body that will deal with special cases of accidents and serious accidents. On the other hand, the member of the law that we are currently talking about and for which you have submitted the amendments concerns the exclusive jurisdiction of the Centre itself, i.e. the lead investigator and the task force. In this regard, they are more appropriate for what will be the task of these teams to work on investigations of special accidents and serious accidents, primarily because the intensity of the overall problem is that as much work as possible is done through the work of the staff within the Centre, and that as little external experts, or experts, as we call them, who join the working groups that make up, in the first place, employees. It's something that kind of connects one or the other concept that's been used, or that's mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33084	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33085	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 22 in the sense that in paragraph 2 we propose that the word "can" be replaced by the words "is due", as Article 2 says: "The Centre may provide technical assistance to competent judicial authorities, at their request, and provide information on an accident or a serious accident, as well as an accident report or a serious accident." We believe that this term "can" is optional and that the Centre is obliged to submit a report to the judicial authorities at their request, that it is necessary to re-form this, and thus to leave the universityivity and obligation to submit the report to the judicial authorities and we have suggested that a new position 3 is added after Article 2 which is stated - the information and report referred to in Article 2 of the Centre shall be submitted to the judicial authority within a time limit set by the Authority and which cannot be shorter than three days. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that it would not be accepted for the reasons of Article 15. The bill defined that no one can limit the content and scope of the research, affect the content and scope of the report on the investigation of accidents and serious accidents or on the content and scope of the Security Recommendation of the Centre, and the deadlines are defined by other regulations. Indeed, Article 15, which is called upon, says: “No one can limit the content and scope of research, affect the content or scope of reports on accidents and serious accidents or the content and scope of security procedures. ” We don't touch on the content and scope of the reports and what Article 15 regulates, so I think that the argument given by the refusal really has nothing to do with the content of our amendment. We only specify the obligation to submit reports to the judicial authorities in case the judicial authorities so require. The explanation is not related to the amendment, from what is seen, and we believe it is necessary to specify the relations between the Centre and the judicial authorities by regulating the degree of obligation to submit the report.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33086	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33087	If your part of the amendment was only the first part, where instead of the word "can" you put "is due", it would be acceptable, it seems to me. This second part is something that is not acceptable. As far as the argument itself, agreed with you, has nothing to do with what you wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33088	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33089	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with Associates, I must say that I am also at the view that this amendment should not be accepted for several reasons. First, if you read the text of the bill itself, in Article 22 paragraph 2 says, just about what you were talking about – the Centre can provide the competent judicial authorities, at their request, with, and now lists – technical assistance and deliver information about the accident and serious accident, as well as an accident report or a serious accident. Here, in the very text of the law, there is also talk of providing technical assistance. For this reason, it is not possible to enter the obligation of the Centre to carry out technical tasks for judicial authorities, because this would result in a subordination that is not in line with what Article 15 says, which is that the entire investigation procedure of the Centre is completely independent of any other oran oran or any other organisation. Therefore, it is that technical assistance can be provided to the extent that the centre is able to provide it and cannot be provided at the request of the judicial authorities where the centre is unable or not, I say, qualified to provide such technical assistance. Simply, there are certain restrictions, there are certain levels of possibilities to help. By putting into the text of the law obligation – it is mandatory, we would leave room for the judicial authorities to maybe set up some requirements that the centre could not respond to. As far as the information is concerned, they are publicly available, publicly published. In practice even, which is also something to be taken into account, are delivered to all relevant organisations and bodies, so that even co-operation with judicial authorities in this regard is something that represents a two-way street and something that should really be left to the centre, the lead investigator in certain cooperation protocols not only with judicial authorities but also with some other bodies, so to the authorities of the MUP, regulate and mutual relations and that cooperation. Therefore, assistance is also needed from the judicial authorities and the authorities of the MUP, and a centre on their part is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33090	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33091	I would just like to explain because of my colleague's discussion, it's not about organ co-ordination, it's about co-operation, and if the accident and the accident that the centre is investigating is suspected of a criminal offence, the epilogue should be in front of the judicial authorities. In that case, we are all obliged, including the center, to deliver information, data and to assist the judicial authorities to carry out their proceedings. And I don't see why this would somehow put the center in a position of subjugation, when we all have this obligation to the judicial authorities, because we all care about the completion of the proceedings before the judicial authorities and that the punishments of the perpetrators, if they exist, and that both justice and justice are satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33092	Thank you. The 23rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33093	Thank you. This is another amendment where in previous cases we have said – a working group, asked to be replaced by words – an investigative commission, and here a word – a centre to be replaced by words – an investigative commission. I understand the proposal's intention in Article 23, but I'm afraid there will be a case here with Article 23, when it compares to Article 22 and Article 21, that you have a similar application to the task force. Because Article 23 is not about working group, it's about the center. It is said in the first position: "The centre is authorised to take the necessary steps to carry out the research, regardless of whether another official investigation has been launched. The competent authorities and other legal and natural persons must enable the centre to carry out investigative tasks effectively and independently." So now the center is doing research. That's where the task force was formed, formed by the lead investigator. I'm saying, "Sequential application of the law." It's never good. It's never good, especially in cases like this when you're going to have to intertwine jurisdiction. Not to mention what we've made clear, it's going to be done with a special protocol, and these are authorised representatives of the competent authorities of other states that are being notified of an accident, because they have to be informed. Now, in this article, you have an accident to investigate. The team is more logical that what the solution forms as the lead investigator, its right, is not called a task force but an investigative commission. But, okay. And here we talk about the general responsibilities of the centre, "as it investigates an accident or a serious airship accident", which it has every right to do. That's a total of seven points. In point 1 – to unlimited and unlimited access to the crash site or serious accident, aircraft, its contents or wrecks. Point 2 — to draw up a list of evidence without delay and ensure that the wreck or parts of the aircraft are removed controlled, for the purpose of further testing or analysis. Point 3 – that it has direct access and control over flight recording devices, their content and other relevant recordings. Point 4 – to require the autopsy of the body of the deceased, to cooperate on the autopsy and to have direct access to the results of the autopsy or tests carried out on the samples taken. Point 5 — to require medical examination of persons participating in aircraft operations or to require tests on samples taken and to have direct insight into the results of the examination, i.e. tests. Point 6 - to call and examine witnesses and to require them to provide information or evidence regarding the investigation. Point 7 – free access to all relevant documents and data held by the owner, user or aircraft manufacturer, type-approval holder, competent aircraft maintenance organisation, training centre, air navigation service providers, airport operators and competent civil aviation authorities. So this article defines what the powers of the center are. In the event of a serious accident, an accident, we will have these powers, which are all investigated, considered to be the powers of the task force. This is just another reason why it may have been necessary to consider and talk about the investigative commission, because the task force is obviously for the sake of the investigation and these powers will be quite complicated to harmonise with all those who are also involved in the investigation, who also have to have a smooth approach. In the co-operation protocols, this can be arranged, but our amendment has been filed with a desire to be beyond any doubt as to what is the responsibility of the lead investigator of the investigating committee, which he reformes with his solution, with what we heard, protocols for authorised representatives of other countries, who can also participate in the investigation and all this is in accordance with the Chicago Convention and Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33094	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33095	With respect to what counterpart Komic said before me, another attempt to convince the promoter that this amendment together with the other is intended only to prevent one confusion that has been made in this quickly handed down law with many faults. We're introducing the fourth category into the investigation, we've got a lead investigator, we've got a military-civil commission, we've got a task force, and we've got a center, and everybody's got some rights, and there's no defining their relationship, the hierarchy. Then we have that, if it stays this way, and I am sure that this law will come into effect before it comes into force, and it is not realistic that it will come into effect within the next year and by the fact that there are no sublegal acts and there are no budgetary means to fund the operation, which is nowhere near the established centre, which has not even been passed the amendment of the Ministry Act. So there was no need for this law to be passed over its knees, in this hyperspeed way, but there's probably some excuse that's not amongst the politically rational. But it's not a question for me, it's a question for the current government. So think again about a few things. First, you need to withdraw the law from the procedure and bring it to a regular session, so that it can be read, understood, constitutionally and legally agree with what defines the constitutional and legal system of Serbia, or fix it with these amendments, to patch it up, and that's not a good way to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33096	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Mr Bečić, Mrs Mihajlovic and the distinguished guests of the Ministry, I believe that we have had the opportunity, if there was no time for some MPs to read the explanation for accepting this amendment to Article 23, that in the performances of Mrs Comic and Mr Zivkovic, we have had the additional arguments of Ms Mihajlovic to consider accepting this amendment, or that it may be further explained why you believe that this amendment should not be accepted. Of course, the key argument, in my court, concerns two important lines through which we are now observing this bill. One line concerns Article 3. The constitution, because we saw and saw it during today's debate and on this amendment that we have problems with the concept of the rule of law, or the rule of law, we now see to it, and here is the debate on this amendment. The other important line, through which we can follow the content of this bill, refers to this one urgency, the speed, through which the bill came to the Assembly and very quickly became part of the agenda of a session of the National Assembly, and now we notice that there are many reasons... (Zoran Babic, from the scene: Investigation Commission! )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33098	Mr. Pavicevic, I beg you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33099	It's an investigative committee, Mr. Granny. That's right, investigation committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33100	Mr. Babic, Mr. Pavicevic... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mr Babiću, you did not read, looks, amendments, the explanation of the amendment. You follow Mr. Babic's instructions. He is the head of your parliamentary group... Whose instructions do I listen to, Mr. Pavicevich? Any MP who points out that the Rules of Procedure are not respected and does not speak of the agenda item on the agenda. And you, Mr. Pavicevic, if you have no arguments in favour of the amendments you have submitted, there is nothing I can do for you. I see you've prepared a colleague, but you don't know anything about it, nor are you talking about it. You're just telling a story that's general, you're talking about laws, about the rule of law, and you're not talking about an amendment. I ask you, Mr. Pavicevic, or you will talk about amendments that are on the agenda, in this case, amendment to Article 23, or I simply won't allow it, I said, to speak out of the agenda. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33101	As regards Article 23, i.e. the amendment, it states very clearly that the centre performs research activities independently in Article 22 or where necessary in cooperation with other national authorities and can provide information to competent judicial authorities, at their request, provide technical assistance, etc. It therefore carries out on its own or, where necessary, in cooperation with other state bodies. That's the theme, I'd say, and this amendment. So the center determines the causes. The center is a cap practically above, and that's what it's called -- a crash research centre, and no one here introduces many institutes, as you mentioned, commissions and working groups, etc., but very clearly in the law writes who does what, and the center is independent. What one of the predecessors said, is that this law will be corrected, there will be no sublegal acts, there is no money and there will be changes to the Ministry Act, all one and the other things are not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33102	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33103	The amendment that my fellow Members of Parliament and I have submitted to amend the views of Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the draft law. In paragraphs 2 and 3 and Article 4, we are therefore asking that instead of "Centar" and "Work Group", the "Research Commission" stands everywhere because it deals with investigative activities, it deals with the investigation. We thought attitude one should be better defined. The proposed text of the law states: ‘All documents, data and evidence must be used exclusively for the purpose of investigating accidents or serious aircraft accidents and cannot be used for other purposes. “ It’s just a language change on which we have no other reason to insist, except for the need to comment again – all documents, data and evidence must be used exclusively for accident research purposes and cannot be used for other purposes. Since there is a proposal to remain in the form of a task force and use of the Centre, instead of the Center for the Research of Accidents, of course, I do not expect the adoption of amendments, but I consider it an obligation to explain the reasons, motives and logic of the submission of amendments and to Article 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33104	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 25th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33105	Another consequential amendment amending Article 25, paragraphs 3, 4, 8 and 10. Our intention to set up an investigative commission, as a body formed by the accident research centre, implies that, for example, in the 10th sentence, "The Centre, on a proposal from the task force manager", is replaced by the words: "Header of the Investigation Commission". But what is interesting in this Article 25. is the fact that no amendment can be submitted, especially in the last position, which is the Centre, on the proposal of the Working Group Manager, can give consent to the earlier availability of the aircraft involved in the accident or serious accident and its accompanying documentation, at the request of the user or aircraft owner, only if all evidence that can indicate the cause of the accident or serious accident or are necessary to complete the investigation process has been preserved. This last part of the sentence, I failed to make a good amendment, so if all the evidence that could indicate the cause of the accident or the serious accident is preserved or is necessary to complete the investigation process. What's going on? Do you give him permission to fly early if necessary to complete the investigation or if they are preserved? I had part of the amendment that I withdrew – which was necessary to complete the investigation process, but it didn't seem logical. If you read that last attitude, it is clear that you have no dilemma. I have it, because it's about the permission of the centre on an earlier plane, if all the evidence that can indicate the cause of the accident or serious accident is preserved or is necessary to complete the investigation process. He can't do both. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33106	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and respected guests from the Ministry, Mr. Becic, this is the last amendment, the eighth, which I submitted to this bill in the same text, as Mr. Zoran Zivkovic did. Mrs. Mihajlovic did not accept this amendment, and I also announced this morning at the committee session, gentlemen, that it is necessary for Mrs. Mihajlovic to attend here to use one thing to argue through a book, gentlemen. I hope, Mr. Becic, that Mr. Babic has nothing against the book, that Mrs. Mihajlović has nothing against the book and that you have nothing against the book and that in two minutes, which I am entitled to, I suppose, I can point to the relevant book on which I was preparing for this session of the Assembly, gentlemen. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: Investigation Commission! ) Here, Mr. Babic has something against the book. Mr. Granny, here's the book. Mr. Bečiću, Mrs. Mihajlović, you have read one book that I have given you, today I have presented to you another one, and on this amendment, Mrs. Mihajlović, here is one important book. The name of the book “Early Christianity From Jesus to Christ”, author, famous sociologist of religion, professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, Professor Milan Vukomanović. And the key word, Mrs. Mihajlović, for your understanding, I mean your actions and this bill, and which is why this book is important, is to bury the early Christian basilica, which concerns our debate today, gentlemen. It's not canned, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33108	Mr. Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33109	Archaeological material is not protected, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33110	Mr. Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33111	... I am not allowed to move that basilica and I cannot allow you to come to the Assembly today without devoting at least two minutes to this very important and current topic. Books are always important, Mr. Becic. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33112	Mr. Pavicevic, you obviously didn't prepare for this topic today. Well, Mr. Pavicevic, here, I've let you in a little bit to hear from a few of your attempts to say something, and in the end, from the fourth, fifth try, you haven't been able to say anything about this amendment, about this subject, but you're saying something that doesn't matter. But here, I won't, I didn't mean to interrupt. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33113	As a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I cannot comment on whether or not you abuse your minutes, but since you are an MP, I will understand that you have asked a parliamentary question and in writing the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure will answer the issue of a basilica, which is not, for the sake of Serbian citizens, but has been buried, and is not the first or the last. I hope there comes a time when we can do it another way, but for now it is. In writing, you will receive information about the subject you have set through a different approach, which is through the book you have given.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33114	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. By amendment, by the Rules of Procedure or what? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ( b) Replica. Here you go, Mr. Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33115	Here, I'll ask you, Mr. Becic, and ask you to ask Mr. Pavicevic, what's he got against the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? What's up with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so roses are broken by every violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? One minute and 36 seconds, just before, one word about the amendment, nothing. Does this mean that Mr. Pavicevic is subject to some special rules here? Is it with the amount of decibel he's giving us here? Arm-wrestling? Is it possible he scared you, he won't scare us that he can do whatever he wants? With what right does Mr Pavicevic express himself to other colleagues? According to counterpart Nenado, to me, to anyone, do we hate the book? Why does he hate the National Assembly? If his boss set fire to the National Assembly, it doesn't necessarily mean he doesn't turn it on now, in some other way. If we are in favour of the rule of law, it is also right to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly from page one to page one, from page one to the last. Is that what Mr. Pavicevic does? It doesn't work, because he doesn't know anything about this law and because it's not a shame to admit that you don't know anything, but that you're going to take over the role of being able to say whatever you want and thus adjudicate the dialogue that's being conducted in the National Assembly. What does basilica have to do with this subject, today's agenda theme? Well, I wish you'd made projects that were different, so I wish you'd built Corridor "10" and Corridor "11". Well, you spent it all, you stole it, and now we want to build and re-net our Serbia corridors now you honor us for why we work. Well, of course we'll work and of course we'll look to the future, because you've spent both the past and the future of our children. Yes, although you marvel, because you were on the same list and helped the same people who stole and destroyed, to enter this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33116	Mr. Pavicevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Mihajlović and the distinguished guests of the Ministry, from the first day of my work in this National Assembly, to the day of today, and I will continue to do so, I try to contribute exclusively to the dignity of my actions, both the MPs here and the National Assembly, as well as, to repeat once again, the central political institutions in our political system, respected gentlemen, the institution that deserves to be described as a sanctuary of political life. In this sanctuary of political life, gentlemen, when she appears to us as a guest minister to come to explain one bill, and that this bill, as well as some previous ones she defended here, contributes to the collapse of cultural goods, And the burying of early Christian basilica is that, dear Lord of the peoples, it is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Babic. [[off microphone]] And you can't blame me for taking the opportunity to control the work of government members when the minister is there, so I guess that's part of the function of our legislative body, to control every member of the government and the Prime Minister. It's the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33118	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33119	Not because of the honourable MP, but because of Serbian citizens, the issue of basilica is a very serious issue that has not been resolved for three and a half years. Of course, bad projects, not relevant projects. Back in the day, when the government didn't handle the SNS issue of basilica, it wasn't her burying. The basilica is preserved and preserved for the future, and on the other hand the construction of the highway is continued. Unfortunately, it cost Serbia a day, not to solve the problem of basilica and oak, but daily in the past three years, 10,000 euros. No one took care of that. We have solved the problem in the best possible way in co-operation with all official institutions in this country because the country's institution is functioning. So when I do it again, the basilica isn't buried. Someone might have buried it sooner, but we preserved it and preserved it. We are one country rich in archaeological finds, including our city, where we are today, in Belgrade. A large part of Belgrade has just been built on archaeological findings. A part of them is also preserved.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33120	Thank you. Mr. Grandmother on what grounds? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I do not have the right to direct mention of the name? ) Mr. Babiću, Mr. Pavicevic has been interrupted. I didn't let him speak anymore because he didn't replicate to you, but he tried to replicate to the Minister, and he just got a replica of your exposure. Since he didn't want to do it, he's replicating the minister. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: No mention of my name? I'm saying it wasn't because he tried to replicate the minister, and he got a replica of your exposure. He spoke but with the microphone off. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I think the amendment should be rejected because there is absolutely no valid reason why it is listed in the amendment to accept it. I thought Mr. Becic's time of political terror was long past. However, it is obvious that the relapses of this terror continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33122	Mr. Martinovic, you were not in the O.R. when I was warned by the head of the SNS parliamentary group that I would not allow them not to speak and that I would allow everything and everything to be spoken of, not the amendment. I am, as is true of Mr Pavicevic... . (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Can I finish? )......................................................................................................... But don't talk about the amendment, talk about DS, talk about something else. So I will not allow you to speak out of the amendment submitted by a group of MPs to article 25. Only if you want to speak by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33123	I want to end up in accordance with the amendment, but you must allow me to talk about the amendment in the same way you made it possible for Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33124	Mr. Martinovic, you weren't in the O.R....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33125	I was in the O.R., Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33126	Well, you weren't in the O.R. I don't want to go with you like this. I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33127	I was in the O.R. Mr. Becic when Mr. Pavicevic... said, "You from the SNS do not read books, you do not know what is written in them, etc., and I was in the hall. [[off microphone]] I'm asking you nicely to let me say a few words, because this is where the entire SNS is being insulted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33128	I'm talking to Mr. Martinovic, I'm talking about time and exposure before that. I'm talking about time and exposure and discussion before that. So we didn't allow it, and I didn't allow any MPs to speak out of the question. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place:... And he took the book and read... And he said the minister of traffic was responsible for burying the early Christian basilica. You're right, you're right and it's interrupted. Minister Mihajlovic explained this in detail. She explained it to Mr Pavicevic. Well, you can't violate the Rules of Procedure the same way as Mr. Pavicevic. I won't let that happen. I don't want to be convinced with you. Either you let the debate continue, or I'll take a break. I'm taking a break. Well, I'm taking a break, Mr. Martinovic. (Alexander Martinović, from the city: I report to the Rules of Procedure. I've read that book since I was a student. You're not the only one who reads it. Now I'm gonna explain everything. What? You're the only one who reads? ) [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word has a People's MP, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33130	Thank you. Article 27 of the original text of the bill reads – before the report is published on the proposed Working Group's proposal, consent shall be given by the lead investigator. We suggested that that attitude be erased. Because... (Alexander Martinovic, from Becic, I will ask to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, my mother.)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33131	Mr. Martinovic, I give you a warning. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Why? Why? For what? I'm throwing too. ) Go ahead, Mrs. Komic. It's about getting thrown out of place. Mr. Granny, I give you a warning. Thank you. Go on, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33132	Thank you, Vice President. Completely unnecessary, but completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33133	I'm taking five minutes off. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Let's all attack the government now, what is this, I say a member of the Rules of Procedure and an immediate warning. You go down to the O.R. and fight for SNS, and I'll go where you are.)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33134	Mrs. Comic, did you sign up?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33135	I think I've spent two minutes, and I'll keep trying not to lose all my time at my disposal to explain the amendment. So it is about publishing the report and the report on the proposed Workgroup, the lead investigator gives consent. And I understand the meaning that means that the task force formed by the lead investigator's solution is making a report, and that before the report is released, the lead investigator gives consent. We have a problem with procedure and powers, which is why he gives consent if he hasn't been involved in making the report. I don't doubt that this is one control mechanism, so I'm not against the idea at all, that the lead investigator, given that he has great powers and he has responsibility, is giving prior consent to release the report, but unless it's fully arranged in which cases the lead investigator may not give consent, in relation to the proposed text of the law, we thought it would be better to delete this position 2, because if it's going to be regulated by sublaws, then it's unnecessary to stand by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33136	Mr. Risticevic, you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I think she's lost her sense of injury to the Rules of Procedure since I didn't hurt her. Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of Special Position 3. – The President of the National Assembly shall give a word to the People's Parliament, which shall indicate the infringement referred to in Article 1, following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. After the presentation, my colleague Martinovic and I, Mr Bečić, who was then chairman, advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure and I agree that Mr Martinovic had the advantage, because he was the deputy head of the parliamentary group and I was supposed to get word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure after him, and we did not achieve that right. This failure to exercise our right resulted from Articles 108 and 109. The Rules of Procedure, so that counterpart Martinovic and counterpart Babic received warnings, only because they insisted on the right of Article 103(3). Mr. Chairman, I'm not gonna ask you to vote on this. I think you'll calm the situation down. I allow the opposition to have the right advantages, but we cannot allow some MPs to jump and wave to the Rules of Procedure at any moment, and the right ones to fail and thus contribute energy efficiency, and on the other hand we do not have those rights. I can tolerate that they have a little more right to wave to the Rules of Procedure than we do, but that some measure is being taken, due to future work, and I believe that you will calm down the situation and I am giving up my intention to hurt this voice, but when I think about it a little bit, given that it was done by my colleague Becic, now I am asking that it be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33138	He's got his word on the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33139	Thank you very much. So, let's go back a little with those within the party conflicts in essence, which is that Article 27, paragraph 2, nowA reads - before publishing the report on the proposed working group agreement is given by the lead investigator. It is now difficult to catch again, whether it is the lead investigator or he is the director of the centre, but generally on the trail of explanations given by Col. Komic, it is completely pointless that someone who does not need to participate in the investigation in any way. When an investigation is completed and a task force or a military-civil commission or a centre is already not known who, a report is made, that again no one knows who, whether the head investigator or director of the centre can suspend their work and say – I don't like it and can't go public. If we are looking at the law, here's to give you an example that is absolutely by law – if Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic proposes to our colleague Nebojsa Petrovic, who is now the lead investigator, to investigate the fall of the helicopter and he finds that the defence minister, the Chief of Staff, is guilty, I don't know what he's called, the President of the State, the Prime Minister, comes to the end of the commission, makes such a conclusion, and then Nebojsa Petrovic says – he can't. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And where were you when Djindjic was killed? I'm begging you... (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Where have you been? Would you please stop your colleague from throwing it at me or preventing it himself? Please hold the session. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Where have you been? I'll explain that later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33140	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You were killed by the Prime Minister, what did you investigate? ) Please, Mr. Martinovic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33141	First of all, I'm not a member of the SNS, you can't yell at me, I'm not the vice president of the Assembly on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, and you can't yell at me, I'm talking about the amendment, and if you have anything to ask, I can explain to you, however you want, in any way. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: You have a weak heart. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: I have a weak heart? Come and try it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33142	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, so it doesn't go like this. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33143	Of course, because Parliament's dignity is rudely offended, we have heard threats from the other side, an invitation to a duel, to a fight by a fellow concerned who probably feels that maybe we should re-burn the Assembly. But on the other hand, I have to call a member who's talking about having to talk about the agenda, or what's on the agenda. We've heard here all sorts of amazing things that have nothing to do with this law, you haven't responded, and it's someone who's at least entitled to something like that, because in his time the Prime Minister was killed, and he was the federal minister of police and shows this way that these amendments, otherwise, are not tolerated for honesty, but only to try to collect cheap political points at the worst possible politics. I'm asking you, of course, to plead on this and you, of course, depending on your answer, I'll decide whether or not I'm going to ask to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but this kind of thing is illegal, please respond in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33144	Thank you. Please, first of all, I would not be able to follow the Assembly and what the individual MP is saying, it is necessary, first of all, to be decent or to say moderate silence. This is how when you start to throw and draw attention from each other, then it's clear that the chairman is losing and I accept that possibility that I wasn't careful enough. Therefore, I fully support every MP, no matter which side he belonged to, that the speech was treated with dignity and the other one was spoken of on the agenda. Those two things when they're fulfilled, then the work of the Assembly you'll agree on at the level. In that sense, I do not support you, and is it your right to plead? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. Thank you. Injury of Rules of Procedure Janko Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33145	The President-in-Office, a member of the 106th and some other members of the Rules of Procedure who say that the discard is forbidden, the interference of MPs during the presentations. We now have the permanent last half-hour one aggressive situation in which SNS MPs from the front row are obstructing speakers and making it impossible to hold a session of the president. And after warning the president and head of the SNS group's MP, they continued with the same tone. Please chair, we're talking about a very important law, we're talking about investigating aircraft accidents, in rail traffic, in internal navigation, it's a very important topic, we're talking about here, or we're turning the Assembly into something that's not appropriate for Parliament. I ask you to take advantage of your options at your disposal, not according to your position but to the opposition. If you can't hold a session, take a break, give a meeting of parliamentary groups, I don't know what's going on in the SNS parliamentary group today, they're not even challenged on this side. I haven't been in the O.R. all the time, but there's no reason to dispute in this way the possibility of anyone thinking differently about this law, so I'm asking you to put a session in some normal course or take a little longer time off to calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33146	Mr. Veselinović, so there's been one five minutes since I chaired here and I couldn't challenge that behavior by running my assembly, that's one thing. Secondly, whoever's here or when I'm present, there's always a causal-consequential connection. I don't want to defend either side of it, but if the speaker who took the first word only spoke about the amendment and dignity, then there's really no reason, I'm saying it no matter what party it belongs to, there's no reason for the other party to react. If in any way or other side is found injured, the logical thing for me is the reaction, and there's nothing I can do about it now. If you think punishment is a solution in that sense, I think it isn't. I can only cause another dissatisfaction even bigger because it's hard. The judges they're taking, it's their life call, so they're making mistakes, and not me who I am, I'm not a judge, but I'm simply the chairman here, trying to get this assembly in one row. In that sense, I ask you all to help me in that sense. It's not entirely up to me. I can take a break, it's not a problem if we're going to solve it, but it's your right, I support that you don't really throw it, I agree with that, but I can't just fix that mistake right now, but now I'm asking all of you to go one way, to say, with normal behavior and debate on the agenda. Do you want to take the day to vote... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. So you're not asking him to plead. Mr. Babice, did you get that? (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: By amendment, if you please. ) According to the amendment. He's got business in Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33147	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 108. So, all right, the National Assembly is taking care of the president of the National Assembly. We easily went over the threats and intimidations we could hear earlier, sent by MP Zivkovic, some SNS MPs, but now it's clear to me that what we heard this morning and these mafia concepts of Omert, etc., certainly wasn't a coincidence. So, mafia concepts, mafia methods, threats, intimidations, etc. They're something that's unique to Mr. Zivkovic, but I want to tell him that in that way he can't intimidate us, he can't scare us with it, none of the SNS MPs. I think it was extremely inappropriate, and you missed the chance to sanction it. So, by article 108, you could give him a warning, and you didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33148	I already said once that I had to admit that I didn't... Possibly, you may be right, but as of this morning, I can't bear the consequences. But, of course, I am in principle against any threats, any uncultural behavior, any other relationship. Therefore, I ask you in that sense, I demand it from you, from all MPs. Do you want to make a statement? (Alexander Markovic, from the place: No. ) Zoran Zivkovic is registered for the word. On what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You do not have the right to replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33149	Mr. Chairman, regardless of who chaired the Assembly, the ambience in which we have been working for the past year, the year and a few days is catastrophic, an environment in which someone who hasn't been in the hall jumps in here and just for two minutes of glory reads to us here and honors at least someone in the first row of the SNS, I don't know when they'll turn to the right side, but he definitely couldn't have the impression of what he's doing, how he's doing in the O.R. if he's not in the O.R. But the fixation by the Serbian Progressive Party is very interesting. I won't let any ugly word fall on the SNS, because we haven't used one time with a microphone on, or in the hallway, or anywhere we're exposed to the most hot-kicking and hate, the MPs and the MPs of the SNS didn't answer that way. We didn't answer because we don't believe in such methods.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33150	Mr. Babico, you asked for a word after the amendment. I can tolerate a certain deviation, but here, I don't know how long you don't talk about the amendment. I'm asking you about the amendment. I can understand how you feel. But now let's get past it and go on the agenda. I beg of you and most of you, it depends on how they usually behave here. Here, that please. I have no other words. However, I can't apologize to you now, but if it's due to time, we're going to make up for it, it's not a problem if we're going to sit here for five minutes or less, but simply, now I'm asking you to set an example of the work of the Assembly on the agenda. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: May I continue? Here you go, colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33151	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know, you've had to be so sensitive, even though I respect you infinitely, you've had to be sensitive when someone who can be his father by age, my young colleague, Alexander Markovic, honors his sick heart. That's disastrous. That's outrageous, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33152	I didn't understand you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33153	Well, you didn't understand Mr. Zoran Zivkovic when he called for the heart disease of one of our colleagues here, you didn't understand when he told Mr. Martinovic that he was going to shut him up, and you know someone who was celebrating with the Red Berets, someone who's been photographed with the greatest criminals and the most visible criminals for the past 20 years, such a threat is extremely serious. I call this way on the competent state authorities to address these threats, in accordance with the law, and respond. On the other hand, this is where it's proposed...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33154	MP, no offense at all. Here, I've accepted that you get mad at me. This doesn't make any sense anymore. I think we're all extremely nervous about the heat and we're working days without a break because we lost that beat from 10.00 to 1800 hours and I'm forced to give a regular break in accordance with the hourly Rules of Procedure. Really, the three of us can't run these sessions. We don't know how to run these sessions. Well, we don't know how to lead when no one's going to cooperate with us. Here, the vice president says you asked for the amendment. I really don't want to argue. An hour, everyone rest, a regular break in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Don't be mad at us, talk to each other. You're mad at each other. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: They invite him to a sick heart, threaten him, and punish us. I'm the witness that was requested by the amendment, nothing else was asked. I fully understand the vice presidents that they cannot establish order and peace in another way. We can continue, but with the confidence that amendments will be discussed. That's what nobody wants, obviously. If the heads of the parliamentary groups commit themselves to talking about the amendment, but they won't, therefore, we won't leave the O.R. I really don't have that power, no one will listen to me. Make a deal. Don't fight. Take a break. Regular break, we continue in an hour after the amendments, indeed, according to the amendments. Think about it, this happens every day. A very ugly picture goes public. I don't care who did it. It takes two to fight. [[after breaks]] Is anyone answering for a word by amendment to Article 27? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? Thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the amendment. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33156	Article 33 in his position 7 says -- the minister is closer to prescribing the content of a final report on accidents and accidents in rail traffic. We felt that the minister could not prescribe the content, but we suggested that this attitude 7 in Article 33 is changed and that it is said – the minister is closer to prescribing the form of a final report on investigations of accidents and accidents in railways, especially because the minister, by all provisions of the law, does not have, except for the control role and supervision for the application of the law, nothing with the content of the final report. If he had left to prescribe the contents of the final report, I suppose it was thought that the minister prescribed that the final report must look like, but it's not content. The content of the final report is what the task force of the accident research centre or the lead investigator if the report on investigations of accidents and accidents in rail traffic, and we ask you to reconsider and accept the changed language formulation of this attitude 7 because it seems to us that it actually describes what will happen in reality when it comes to accidents in rail traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33157	National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the 38th amendment. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33158	Thank you. Article 38 speaks of maritime accidents. In attitude 1. says – after a very serious maritime accident and a maritime accident, a security investigation must be carried out if. In that first attitude, words are probably missing. The first attitude is for a very serious maritime accident... Our amendment refers to Article 2 which defines what is the important interest of the Republic of Serbia and we have proposed that the text of this Article 2. The bill reads - the Republic of Serbia has an important interest in conducting a security investigation when ships participating in the accidents under Article 1 are serious maritime accidents and maritime accidents, sailing under the flag of the Republic of Serbia, when it has information useful for the investigation or if for legitimate reasons it is interested in conducting an investigation. We felt that it was proposed that if ships participating in the 1st-member's accidents have the flag of the Republic of Serbia that it is better to be re-formed - under the flag of the Republic of Serbia. In our consultations, we are told that this is a phrase that can be used for ships, but we felt that it was better to be absolutely accurate to think about ships flying under the flag of Serbia and that it should be precisely defined why this is the important interest of the Republic of Serbia to conduct a security investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33159	National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 51st amendment. The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33160	President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, in an amendment that I have submitted to Article 51 on behalf of the PRECRET Movement. I asked the law to increase the lowest penalty for companies or as it is said in the people – for companies from 150,000 to 300,000 because I felt that a company that did not notify the Centre of the accident or the serious accident of the aircraft or restricts access to the crash site or serious accident of the aircraft is a small penalty of 150,000 dinars because air carriers are not poor companies. It is possible that it would be a reason to cover up the accident or to inform it late, that it would be a cause for them if the fine was a thousand euros in practice and it would be appropriate for that minimum sentence to be increased, especially given the Vice President's view, which was the amendment I submitted to the next member, which concerned the responsibilities of the natural person for not reporting the accident. So I think you should consider this amendment to raise the lowest value of the fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33161	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33162	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is quite justified that a colleague who is a proposing of this amendment has his own opinion and that he is making a proposal, but at the same time, I do not think it is an obligation to accept this proposal and I think it is necessary to accept the proposal of the legislator, because the legislator certainly had many more reasons why he proposed the size of the fine as he had suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33163	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović and Branka Bosnjak submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic, submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33164	As at the beginning of the debate, I would once again like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his understanding and his desire to improve this law. So 30% of the amendments to the PRECRET Movement were adopted, and I said I would like citizens' support for the turnaround in Serbia to be much greater, because it is necessary. This is about a similar situation I was talking about earlier. It is the responsibility of the responsible person in the legal person, who is required to report an aircraft accident, ship or traffic facility in railways. The fine was projected to be 20,000 lowest, with these proposed changes, the amendment has increased to 50,000. I think it's an appropriate punishment for a responsible natural person in a legal person. Generally, I would like to express my position that our criminal policy is a treasure, and on the other hand, a very frequent view of the court and the criminal judges to impose the lowest penalty. It's a bad practice, so it doesn't seem enough to prevent it, because punishments also aim to deter new crimes or crimes. If a person who is potentially responsible knows that he will not be punished or knows that punishment will be small, he has an interest in either committing crimes or waiting for time to pass and not being punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33165	Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33166	Thank you, Madam President. Article 54 regulates the deadlines in which sublegal acts are adopted, so it was foreseen that the minister was required within a year to adopt a sublegal act under his jurisdiction, and the government within two years of the date of entry into force of the law. We have proposed by the amendment that both the two deadlines be reduced to six months, because we believe, especially because of the events we had in the near past, that it is important that this law begins as soon as possible, that the sublegal act, which will only be able to provide for the full application of this law as soon as possible. That's why we suggested a short term. I can only express my satisfaction that the government has had the understanding and that they show the will to make sure that both the Minister and the Government pass the sublegal act within six months, thus allowing the law to be applied. I think there was room for some more amendments, for the acceptance of some more amendments, because as we said in the principle debate, the law was a little out of line with termologically, as if it were made up of several written continents, so we amendments tried that. I didn't want to explain every amendment individually, but it's a good thing this was accepted. I believe that law enforcement will bring some improvement in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33167	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic submitted together to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 54th amendment. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33168	President, I'm going to use my five minutes now, so seven in all. Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Mihajlovic, this amendment is for the reason that you are according to the report, I do not mean you personally, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, declared to be the most inefficient government in the world, or among the ten most inefficient governments in the world. The objective of this amendment, so far, Mrs Mihajlovic, has discussed similar amendments to other laws, whose laws you were the applicant, or representative of the Government. This amendment requires nothing more than to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia after a year, and you say, "Good day, we passed a traffic accident law a year ago, to short the name of the law, in the meantime so many cases of aircraft accidents, vessels, in rail traffic, a commission was formed, the centre formed a team, was investigated within that period and so on." The MPs on the basis of this say – well, on the basis of the law, it really made sense to form this centre that will investigate these cases, and we finish the debate and say that the law has been applied. So it's not enough, Mrs. Mihajlovic, to pass the law, it needs to be applied. The main issue of your or our partners from the EU is that we are passing laws that we are not applying enough. I did not create this amendment on the basis of my will to submit another amendment. Such members of the law have many EU countries. These are such members of the law which oblige the legislator to appear before the competent committee or parliament to report on what has been done on the application of the law. Why, Mrs. Mihajlovic, did you not dare and accept such an amendment to a law that was relatively easy to evaluate what had been done and what had happened in the application of that law? Why did you not accept and agree to come to the Assembly in a year, of course, if you were then the vice president of the most inefficient government in the world, or among the 10 most inefficient governments in the world, and to correct that ineffectiveness? God forbid you're on that list next year. It would really be my wish and I think it would be good for the citizens of Serbia, and you would do it in a way that the laws we adopt here in the National Assembly apply. What would that mean? That would mean they'd know if there was a case that happened, say, a few months ago, that happened in an accident of a helicopter that killed seven people, so they knew how to investigate in that case. But, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you did not accept the amendment that I suggested that such cases be investigated by mixed military-civil controls, a military-civil commission. Thus, such a case in which a military aircraft accident occurred, and in which individuals may have been involved, therefore, may be co-responsible for the accident, it does not investigate the centre, it remains in the jurisdiction of military services, or the Ministry of Defence. The key thing is, therefore, you did not accept the amendment to investigate such cases by the centre and make it publicly available to parliament, and on the other hand you did not agree to submit a report within a year on the application of this law. I'm asking you why that is? So I don't see any reason. This is not a political law that reduces wages, pensions, etc. to have a big debate in the assembly, a political debate where points would be earned. This is a simple report, a set of statistics whether there was an accident, who took part in them, what are the causes, what is taken of preventive measures so that similar incidents don't happen in the future, and that would be quite one, I'm sure, decent debate. I don't know why you didn't agree to this and why you didn't agree to such a provision in our laws. It is not enough, Mrs Mihajlovic, the current practice of the assembly and the relationship between the government and the Assembly by which we have two or three public hearings during the year by individual ministries. We don't know what's going on with law enforcement, Mrs. Mihajlovic. They are usually not applied or inadequately applied. The idea of "The Turnover Movement" is that the laws are applied, that the laws apply equally to all. Whether he who committed a crime, crime or so, a member of the ruling party, whether or not he was a member of any party, courts and criminal councils should be the same and the same for all. I thank you once again in the end for accepting some amendments, for making an effort to correct this law through the adoption of these amendments, but I really can't thank myself either, and you try to explain to me why you didn't accept, over a year, that you filed a report on what happened to the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33169	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33170	Dear MP, for your information, there are clear rules and criteria that have been established by your governments, not by the government in which the SNS was located, which is that there are committees in the Serbian Parliament, to which the members of the government, or the ministries, submit their reports, defend their reports and are available to discuss everything they do within their ministry. As well as the Minister of Energy, as well as as the Minister of Transport, Infrastructure, or Construction, I am doing so. If you think that's not enough, as you say here, I have to tell you that those rules were made by you, or by the governments you were in, not us. If something needs to change, give the initiative, so if the MPs accept, we're here. Additional members of the government are always available and everything we do is very public and transparent. This government is not inefficient, this is one of the best governments Serbia has. This is the government that has the lowest deficit in the region. This is the government that has the lowest deficit with three other EU countries together, so the most developed countries. In a year's time, this government has done what the governments have rarely done in the previous period, from public sector reforms, which have been initiated by the restructuring of businesses, from the end of the portfolios that I run, so the construction of roads, which is ten times more than it was. This is the government that passed laws none of the previous ones wanted to pass, starting with the Labour Act, starting with media laws and the Law on Planning and Construction. These are laws that apply and we can talk about each of these laws at every session of the committee that's in parliament, talk about, see if there are any problems, whether there's anything that needs to be changed. When you speak the most inefficient government, because of everyone else and because of the citizens of Serbia, therefore, it is an authorial article from the World Economic Forum blog. So it's not even a World Economic Forum report, there's no criteria, it's not a list of the World Economic Forum. Since you mentioned it once again when we had the law in principle and now, it's simply not true what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33171	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33172	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I was just ready to commend my fellowman who turned around and came into some state of mind, for what 30% of his amendments were accepted, but then he disappointed me with his next performance where he's looking for something that doesn't like him or any of us. First of all, to clarify one thing, there is no government here, our government, the government of the Progressives, the government of the Democrats. No, this is the Serbian government, all of us. We may not like one of the ministers physically, but it is still the Serbian government. Just like these previous governments in Serbia's history were ours, so this is our government. Everything this government does, it's our pride, and if it's bad, it's gonna be our mess. In my business career, I had the honour of being one of the directors of the Marine Agency "Yugoagaant" in one period, and in one period of my life I was a pitomaniac or a member of the Flight Control School, it seems to me to be the 20th class. During that period, two major tragedies occurred. Our caravan hit Babin's tooth and all the passengers died, of course, because it was a terrible tragedy. While I was in Jugoagent, Beopolov had one ocean ship that had been killed somewhere on the high seas and then, under laws that existed in that country of SFRY, certain commissions that were investigating the crashes. The commissions were left alone to do their job and they did it right. So that's why I think now this proposal from the government, this law, is in line with the drive that everything that's happened since we've applied this law to be tested in a way that will please all citizens of Serbia and in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. And let's not divide anymore – our government, your government, black, red, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33173	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33174	Madam Minister, Madam President, the SNS will not vote to accept this amendment, that the Government submits to the National Assembly through the committee responsible an annual report on the effects of the application of this law, for at least two reasons. One reason is that this is the ruling majority that adopts the laws and the government that proposes these laws, proposes them and adopts them to be applied. The effects of law enforcement are also shown in what is just now, at least when it comes to public finances, said Mrs. Mihajlovic, but also by what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel and see. The second, much more important, reason the SNS parliamentary group will not vote, will not accept this amendment is dishonesty. Dishonesty, because the amendment's proposer was a National MP on 21 May 2008. He was a National MP on 21 May 2008, when in the area of the village of Baranda, the municipality of Panchevo, when an accident occurred, the fall of the Eagle aircraft's airships, number 25-114, was made up of the 98th Air Force Base. Airship pilot Janik Tomas, major, commander, in catapulting, sustained first-degree fractures. The accident occurred when the task of the flight was carried out by the route of take-off Knić-Mladenovac-Pančevo-Titel-Pančevo-Mladenovac-Knić, landing. The plane was completely destroyed. The work to determine the circumstances of the aircraft crash has been taken over by the commission. Did the amendment promoter, Mr. Veselinovic, then, ask for a report? Was he allowed to ask for a report? It's not. Because the minister was his minister, Minister of Government, Dragan Sutanovac. Well, he couldn't fit in a shadow, let alone look for a report that caused the plane to fall in the vicinity of the village of Baranda. What do we do next? We will not vote in favour of this amendment because of the insincereness of the amendment-proposed MP, which was also on 24 September 2008. Then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was an accident at Batajnica Airport, a plane crash, a Super-Galeb G-4 aircraft from the Technical and Experience Center of the Summer Studies Sector. On that occasion, airship pilot Istvan Canas, Lieutenant Colonel, at the command of the squadron's task force for the annual testing of the technical and experimental centre, sustained fatal injuries. The work to determine the circumstances of the aircraft crash has been taken over by the commission. Did the amendment promoter, Mr. Janko Veselinovic, then ask for an examination of the case? Did he then seek out anyone, and even these shadow ministers, the shadow governments, did they ask the committee of inquiry to determine all the circumstances? Dead end, airfall? No, it's not. And why is that? Because the minister was Dragan Sutanovac, vice president of the DS, fear and trembling, and even now, from the sea. Was that when they asked, were people killed? Is there any damage to the Serbian Army? Did they say anything? No, I don't. No, they're not. But she didn't say anything to the SNS, or the SNS MP, who was sitting right in this part of the hall, us 21. Because we said -- things like that happen everywhere, things like that happen in Serbia. Such things will, unfortunately, continue to happen. We have to work to cut them down, bring them down to a minimum, root them out, and not take the heat and make a political campaign, a miserable and poor political campaign. We will not vote in favour of this amendment, Madam President, due to the insincereness of the amendment promoters because on July 7th 2009, just a few months after all this, there was an accident at Batajnica Airport, a plane crash, a MiG-29 aircraft, a registration number 18-105 from the 204th Air Force Base. On that occasion, pilot Rade Rangelovic, colonel, at the post of Chief of Staff, also a flight teacher, suffered fatal injuries. Also found at the crash site was the charred corpse of Milan Ulemek, a soldier of the PSC. The aircraft was carrying out the task of preparing for the upcoming Aeromitting in Calemegdan. The work to determine the circumstances of the aircraft crash has been taken over by the commission. Is that when the amendment promoter and these shadow ministers asked for any reports? Was there then any draft law such as this bill which is now before us, which is the law on investigating accidents in air, rail and water traffic? It didn't occur to them. They didn't think of it because the vice president of their DS was also the defence minister, fear and shivering in the DS. They couldn't fit him in the shadows, let alone look for any report. They couldn't set foot on the pasture. Not even a plum from that pasture should have been picked up, let alone anything else to look for, and see what the damage and the consequences were. The SNS parliamentary group was, and then, I'm proud to say, silent. She kept quiet, because these are things that, unfortunately, have happened and will happen and must not be part of politics and political reckonings. We will not accept this amendment because of the insincereness of the amendment promoters, because, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on 3 June 2010, an accident occurred at Lake Gruž near Knic during the execution of the task of the Flight to restore and perfect flight management technique in the performance of the combined maneuver, the fall of Eagle J-22, the record number 25-156, from the composition of the 98th Air Force Base. On that occasion, Air Force pilot Slobodan Jocic, the major on duty of the First Aviation Department, 241 fighter-bomber-air squadrons from Brodjevac, also an instructor, flight instructor, received spinal column injuries when catapulting. The work to determine the circumstances of the aircraft crash has been taken over by the commission. Did the amendment promoter then propose that a commission be drawn up, that the commission give the report, that the committees in charge know what they were doing? Did he, as a People's Messenger, ask to know what the consequences were, who was wrong? No, it's not. He shouldn't have. Someone said he wasn't turned around. And turned and unturned, he's not honest with all of this. But then, here we are, and for the fourth time I'm going to say, the SNS MP group that was sitting, and there were 21 of us, we didn't get hot, we didn't boast, we didn't celebrate the accident, we didn't ask for a political head for it. We have been silent, sympathizing with families who have lost their loved ones, sympathizing with the Ministry of Defense that has lost primarily the people in whom it is invested, material goods, planes, which are very difficult to maintain, let alone buy new ones. Unlike these turned-overs who are looking for the head and those in the shadows who are now looking for a survey board, well, come on, I'll agree to make a survey board, but let's make a survey board for this, too. Why didn't you ask for a survey board then? Why didn't Dragan Sutanovac come here to say under what circumstances these aircraft fell, who was responsible, who was responsible? You shouldn't have, or you didn't want to, or you didn't understand. I don't think there would be enough time, and the SNS you know that there are almost three hours to talk about amendments, there wouldn't be enough time to talk about all the troubles that have hit us in the past. We never built political points on it, as well as on the fall of a helicopter that was raised to save one life, as well as those who had lost their lives until then saved dozens and hundreds of other lives, because they are heroes of a nation, not because they are no more, but because of all that they have done, both in floods and garbage and in various other situations. Do you want me to tell you about countries in the environment, about helicopters or aircraft crashes both in Croatia and in Montenegro and Macedonia and human lives, and there were more victims than there were in our helicopter crash? Was there then someone turned around looking for the report? Who was looking for a head from the shadows, showing that it was better, but not proving it, because you didn't ask for a report or anything that would show what the background of these aircraft that had fallen into the past was. You shouldn't have, because Dragan Sutanovac was the defence minister. You didn't want to, because you didn't care about it at the time, because he was your minister. Mr Ljubisa Stoimirović is right – not ours and yours. This is the government of the Republic of Serbia elected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in fair and democratic elections. They chose the best of us and chose Alexander Vukic, whether you liked it or not. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia like it. And you can leave that ironic laugh for yourself, because that way you don't laugh at Alexander or Mr. Martinovic or Mrs. Mihajlović or me. You laugh at the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are courting these things. This is the kind of thing you shouldn't have thought of, let alone when your Dragan Sutanovac was the secretary of defense. Were you looking for a commission, were you looking for a survey board, and when the projectile exploded on July 18, 2012, at the Pasuljan meadow polygon during the exercise "The Company on the march with the transition to attack" which resulted in fatalities for two class 133 cadets, severe physical injuries for four cadets and minor physical injuries for three cadets? Were you allowed to raise your voice then? Were you allowed to ask Dragan Šutanovac, who is responsible? Were you allowed to seek his head then, politically? And did you hear the Serbian Progressive Party that, apart from the pity that something like this happened and that the young and perspective lives, cadets, tomorrow perhaps the colonels and generals, lost by negligence and error -- we didn't take it out on it. We've been complicit in the pain of both family and our country. Now, that's the answer to the responsible people. Because of all this said, and primarily because of irresponsibility, primarily because of the dishonesty of the amendment's proposing, the Serbian Progressive Party will not vote to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33175	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33176	Thank you. I understand the fascination of Dragano Sutanovec, you do not need to see that he is a man to be feared. He's a golden man. You can check that out. He's our fellow MP. And we can keep going so that the MPs will throw most of it away. It's no problem. So it's never good to try to build an argument out of your own personal, imaginary attitude and impression of someone by reading accidents. What is read while trying to explain that there is fear of Dragan Sutanovac? Reports are being read. If reports and investigations hadn't been made, you wouldn't be using data from the same investigations today, completely wrong, just to point out that you don't like Dragan Sutanovac very much. Of course, it's everyone's right. But you have no reason to like him or to dislike him or any of us. I know he is a golden man. In particular, what you are talking about is the amendment in the second position – the government will adopt, within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, the sublegal act referred to in Articles 14 and 18 of paragraph 4 of this Act. So for two more years, all reports and all investigations into military and civilian aircraft will be done as before. Because the position on which the sub-legislative act will only be brought in two years, which the amendment, to which MP Janko Veselinovic submitted his first position, refers to the fourth position of Article 18, which speaks of the government being closer to prescribing how a mixed civil-military commission will work. All ill-covered impatience towards Dragan Sutanovac is in vain. This will not silence the issue we have as the Democratic Party – who gave the defence minister information... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33177	I gave the replica. It's been two minutes. The word is Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33178	I don't have 20 minutes or three hours, like Mr. Babic. I've got two minutes, but I've had enough. So, the accidents Mr Babic spoke of, as my esteemed colleague Komic said, had they not been investigated, he would not have data on them today. However, things are different. No one was going to wait for that aircraft to take pictures of the minister to score political points. So the difference is big. Mr Babic should know that this is a special situation, in which cameras at "Nikola Tesla" Airport waited for the minister to take pictures of him performing with a military helicopter a function given to the military. And that, of course, is politically very low and that's what Serbian citizens know well. And they recognize it. And they recognize the speech of the Serbian Radical who is now speaking twistedly, as if we didn't know what was going on in the 1990s and who were the ministers of the Serbian Radical Party and who he supported and who he voted for. They are not citizens of Serbia with such short memory. I thought we were gonna talk about the law today. I haven't mentioned anything at all about things that might be controversial about this debate. I asked the government to file a report in a year. Is that immoral? Is that dishonest? Who can be dishonest if the government is asked to file a report? That's what all governments in the world do, our government doesn't do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33179	It's the vice president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33180	Maybe I'm not allowed again as a member of the government to tell you how much abuse you're using or how unserious this is, to use and to use half-truths. What's true from what you're saying is that there was an aircraft and there was an accident, and it was difficult. But everything else you've said is a complete lie. And very incorrect. (Janko Vesenović, from the scene: They weren't waiting for cameras? Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And where were the cameras waiting? I am a member of the government and I have a situation where you can tell me that I have no right to say this, but I have to say it for the citizens of Serbia, not for you. What do you think, that's your business. But Serbian citizens will eventually have a future time period and a report from the prosecutor's office, etc. But to tell the half-truth, to say that someone wanted to take a picture, has nothing to do with what's true. Unfortunately, we had a tragedy never to happen again. I agree that this law, on the one hand, should help us never, of course, have a cause and that we know not who's to blame, but what we need to do, such things would never happen. But telling half-truths, I don't know what you want to get by it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33181	Replica. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33182	When someone honors you as a political party and in six months has changed three, and probably in a political career one 17, then it is real – I have no comment on it. I don't know what to call it. Democrats? Social Democrats? Overturned? I don't know how or which side to call him and what name. If the shadow ministers on one side of A-4 format report on four air accidents with the fatal consequences of the report – then you are ignorant. If these five, six rows are just technical characteristics for you who operated the aircraft, which are those, which is the type of aircraft and where it happened, the report, then you are the catastrophic ignorants. Catastrophic ignorants. Where's the cause here? Where's the responsibility here? Where? She's gone. Who gave the order? For what? How? Well, you drove colds on helicopters to Kragujevac, so they fell, Santa Clauses. But I'm glad she got naked here, got her motive naked. I'm glad the Amendment Proposer said he didn't and would never intend to save the children. A helicopter took off to save a human life to save one of the New Market's children. The helicopter, no matter what the order, would not have taken off if the commanding officer had not accepted it because of the flight conditions and for the purpose and for the sake of everything else and to take off. But here in this room, there are people who clearly said they had no intention of saving children.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33183	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33184	Article 107. You were in debt, just now, and that is a terrible insult to this House's dignity when someone gives such a monstrous lie. You were obliged to warn him. Someone's lying that the cameras were waiting for the minister at the airport, so I guess there'd be some video, I guess someone would take pictures of that minister after they said there were even two of them, I guess those teams of reporters would record the minister coming in with the camera, because you know it's not true. You should be ashamed. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33185	Please. I'm asking you to keep your tensions down. You know very well that the chairman is not responsible for whether someone is telling the truth or lying. It is not a matter of the chairman, and you well know that even according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right to speak the truth, unfortunately. He's not responsible for being said here in this assembly. So I couldn't react in that sense. I'm begging you, we're breaking up the line. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, that's fine. Here you go, Comrade Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33186	Please, General, you know how much I respect you, but come on, Mr. Shormaze, not buddy, if I've heard correctly. I thought you said Comrade Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33187	No, you don't have the right to replica Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33188	Not on the replica, but on the 27th injure of the Rules of Procedure and the Mass from the first moment it was done, and you gave everyone both replicas and ministers and you gave everyone your word, you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, which has an advantage over the others. Did you hear me? Member of the 27th Chairman. I think you really, I'm sorry to say this, you know how much I respect you, that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, because you should not have allowed your colleagues to speak the truth, we have already heard the word and why not use lies, in the Hall of Parliament. I was in this room talking about where the minister was around midnight. So, there were maltenes on the doorstep of Kruševec, we met in cars. I was returning that night from my official trip from Albania and there is a witness here, an employee secretary in the Assembly, actually a professional advisor and a congregation driver who was driving a car. So, the minister was hours away from the crash site and hundreds of kilometers away, and to say that someone was waiting with the cameras because of the minister, and that's the fact, it's been determined, and by who knows which route is abuse. You didn't have to take away the word, but I think there's room for you to punish that MP the strictest of the Rules of Procedure and not to enter this room for the next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33189	I once again underline that it's not my place to determine who's telling the truth here and who's telling the lies. Read the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz. Read it. Therefore, the MP has been released of responsibility for a false statement. Unfortunately, that's what the Rules of Procedure is like. Therefore, I believe I did not harm the Rules of Procedure, but you have the right to plead in the voting day. Do you want to make a statement? Okay. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33190	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened patiently to everything. I cannot agree with the amendment promoter for several reasons. The first reason is political. There's no one who can honor my connection to the SRS. I'm in favour of this amendment being rejected for that reason because my label, at least to me, had something to do with the SRS. I'm a witness to that time. I didn't cooperate with the gentleman mentioned in the '90s, but the president of the former regime's party, on whose election list...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33191	Please, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33192	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33193	Mr. Risticevic, return to the amendment. What difference does it make now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33194	I'm going back to the amendment. I say I can't accept the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33195	I won't let you, I won't let you, from now on I won't let a letter speak beyond the amendment to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33196	When it comes to me, you won't let me have a letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33197	If you want to do the amendment, you can talk. Sign up again and after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33198	I'm talking about the amendment. That's why I'm asking you now. What kind of relationship did the promoter stick Vojislav Seselj to me regarding the amendment? He was talking about him, I wasn't talking about him. Here, their president with him in 1994, a true alliance. I've got photos.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33199	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33200	I don't want to talk about it anymore. I'm talking about the amendment. I'm not a law professor. I understand in the amendments how much parliamentary practice has allowed me. But, I'm sorry, in the amendment's proposal, the government submits an annual report to the National Assembly through the board of directors on the effects of the application of this law. I've literally read the amendment. So I'm not going to be dealing with a plane crash, I'm not even going to say that two planes of war have fallen in Spain in two months, etc. I'm not going to do what he did. I'll deal with the amendment. Unacceptable. Because he's a real doctor. He didn't read the Rules of Procedure his party wrote, even if he was in the party at the time. In the Rules of Procedure, article 229 writes and I'm not a doctor of law, but I can at least read it. What some doctors have written, and it says so -- the minister informs the National Assembly's committee on the work of the ministry once every three months, and then the law doctor suggests that the Rules of Procedure are not valid and that the report is submitted once a year. That's unacceptable. It is unacceptable that a doctor of law, who proposes this amendment, doesn't know what it says in the Rules of Procedure that she brought without our consent. I wasn't there. A party of the former regime. That is why I ask that this amendment be rejected and that my fellow MPs do not vote, with being offended by what I have already said, but that I do not return to it. I have to say this, but I'd like the motionor to admit it, because recognition of ignorance is a big step towards knowledge. Who doesn't know he doesn't know, he already knows something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33201	Thank you. On what grounds? The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33202	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a Member of the 106th speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda under investigation. You chairman, if you don't have the opportunity to hold a session by ensuring the equality of MPs of position and opposition, then you better not do that. So MPs can talk about whatever they want, when it comes to the opposition's MPs, you're applying the Rules of Procedure. Just now, an MP said that I was against saving a child. I was only against killing seven people so some minister would take pictures at the airport where the cameras were waiting for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33203	Mr. Veselinović, I'll give you back the same measure. If you do not have the right argument to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then do not use and abuse the Rules of Procedure and accuse the chairman of not knowing that he is in charge of the Assembly. Therefore, I ask you to keep as much care as I keep the dignity of this congregation, much more depends on you. I won't insult anyone, be sure, I beg you in that sense to behave accordingly. If I believe there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is your right to state whether you wish to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. No, no, no, So you're not pleading, okay? Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33204	Member of the 109th Honorable Chairman, you were obliged to give him a warning because he eventually said he was against killing seven people. Excuse me, is there anyone here declaring the minister consciously murdered seven people? So don't play with it. You were obliged to give him a warning. You didn't do it, and I demand you give him a warning because, in addition to insulting Parliament and all of us here, he called the minister a murderer. And I'm telling you it was the other way around, if, God forbid, that kid died, then they'd be accusing him of why he didn't send a helicopter. Now, that's the hypocrisy we survive here every day. And I ask you to give him a warning of such a disgusting lie he has made. On the other hand, none of us at least ever led the Serbian people of Krajina to vote for HDZ, and that's what someone there was doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33205	Looks like we're electric today. I'm asking you to put down some tension. I must say, that's not how I understood Mr. Veselinović, that he meant it. Maybe you're right, but right now, on your suggestion, I just can't do it, if I made a mistake, then it's my fault and I accept it in that sense, but on your suggestion, I have no moral right to give a warning. I can give myself a warning. I beg you, would you like to make a statement in the voting day? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Mrs. Comic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33206	The Republic, if you think I have the right to a replica, in exchange for arguments with the president of the SNS Group, it is your right to decide on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33207	Prof. Nebojsa Petrovic submitted to the 56th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment... Because everything's getting funny, and it's funny if I didn't turn the microphone on, then I really can't figure it out anymore. So, the government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Bonded and Based Air Traffic. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Blaža Bradić, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Baćavac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, IT Infrastructure and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs: Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs submitted to Article 5 of the amendment together: Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33208	Yes, in essence, the chairman, no offense or threat can argue that I want to correct the laws that the government has sent to the procedure. In that sense, I have filed on behalf of the PRECRET Movement on Article 7 of the amendment, which I am also asking the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, to explain to me why she did not accept the amendment, that not only the property, the real rights, were entered in the register and the lease of aircraft. Why? Because I don't see a second record or a register from which the state will be able to have insight into what years of age, whose properties are trafficked by our heavens. So, of course they're registered, but there's no single register. Why didn't you accept the amendment and predict another section or another register in which the leased aircraft would be included? So, it's not a small number, but I don't know, and if I wanted to check it out now, here's what Mrs. Mihajlovic told me, after the law was passed, if someone wanted to check out how many aircraft in Serbia there are that have been leased, which companies have hired them, where could I check it? If you give me confidence that there is such a register, I will give up my amendment, or I will believe that you did the right thing when you did not accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33209	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I call on the promoter to do as he has just said, therefore, to give up the amendment, because as things stand both on this argument and on the basis of what it says, his proposal was to introduce the right to the story on the basis of the lease agreement, which is not achieved by the proposed removal of Article 3 because this issue is treated in Section 2 and Section 3 deals with something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33211	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33212	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I agree with Mr. Orlic, so it is so contradictory that it cannot be accepted. My second reason for telling my fellow Members and asking them not to vote for this amendment is for the simple reason someone says they're performing here on behalf of the NGO of the PRECRET Movement. It's almost impossible for me because we represent political parties here and here if we all start advertising associations of citizens registered in a business register, I don't know how far we'll get.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33213	Come back, Mr. Risticevic. Please, Mr. Risticevic, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33214	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33215	Don't, don't talk about the amendment, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33216	Mr. Chairman, you must have the same standards. Mr. Proposer called for his performance...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33217	I won't, I just have to take that attitude, I won't allow any replicas or amendments because Alexander Markovic has yet to appear. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33218	Is he going to do business first, or do I have a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33219	You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33220	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted on Article 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Bond and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic. Since we have not heard any arguments from the legislator of this amendment in order to accept this amendment, I must simply be guided by the fact that, in the principle debate on this bill, the Proposer said he would vote against, or that it was disputed by this law. I cannot help but ask - and how is it possible on 20 October 2011 that the same proposing of this amendment, then as an MP of the ruling then ruling party, strongly supports this same law, so the bill amending the Law on Obligation and Foundations of Property Legal Relations in Air Traffic and that is, in the words that this is a alignment with EU laws? We have already heard in the principle debate that the basic reasons for the adoption of this law are exactly the harmonisation of European legal assets. How could he support coordination then, and now he can't? Is that a twist? Thank you and I urge you to refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33221	According to the Rules of Procedure, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33222	The Honorable Chairman, you were obliged to warn the previous speaker, not now, but before that. You interrupted him, but you didn't take his word. Namely, Chairman, Article 106. This isn't just about hurting the Rules of Procedure. This is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which all citizens of Serbia are allowed freedom of association, freedom of political association and any other association.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33223	No, no. I won't allow you a replica now. You can't rephrase.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33224	The Serbian Progressive Party is in the coalition... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33225	No, no, I won't let you. I understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm not going to allow the replica in the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you're wrong. You're wrong, because I warned Mr. Risticevic not to speak beyond the agenda, I even interrupted him. Therefore, you are wrong, and you can demand that in the voting day we plead. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. ) Mr. Rističević, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33226	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103. I appeal to Article 103, the MP has the right to orally point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure done at the meeting of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury done, which I do. So, during my speech, while I was explaining why I didn't need to accept the amendment, you turned off the microphone for me. It's not the first time I've ever done it, and the right to tell you, I can't get mad at you. However, since a different archin has been applied, therefore, that the fellow who proposed the amendment is allowed to talk about what I was talking about, and that it was rightly taken away from me, I object with full right and I want to point out that in the future you will try to have the same treatment for the amendment's promoter and for those who comment on the amendment, given that I have commented on the amendment in the same way that the promoter explained it. So I continue to claim that I did not harm the Rules of Procedure, that I had strictly applied to the amendment in the way that the Proposer did. I'm not asking for this voice injury, but in the future, I ask you to take care of it and that when you hear those who propose the amendment, allow the same right to those who dispute the amendment. I challenged him the way I challenged it and I'll repeat it again. There's no political association in the Citizens' Association. This merger can only be achieved through political parties and that is my political position and I have a right to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33227	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33228	The Honorable chairman, again, did not warn the previous speaker, who is contesting the basic right of citizens to freedom of association. So, the SNS is in coalition with the Two, with Third Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33229	I won't let you. The 7th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 23 July 2015, starting at 18:07 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-23-0.u33230	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that the hall is present with 152 MPs and that we have the conditions to decide. I put to the vote the draft law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – no one, with abstention – voted six of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th Amendments in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 20th and Article 20th amendments in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic, to a group of seven MPs of the DS Parliament group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic, to a group of seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was tabled by a group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic submitted the amendment to Article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the amendment of 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, no one, with abstentions, voted two of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Bonded and Based Laws in Air Traffic Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Bondation and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 5, which was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 5th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there are no, 158 MPs from the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of five MPs from the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 7th amendment, with a correction. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 158 MPs from the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Bondation and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted among the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Bondation and Foundations of Property Legal Relations in Air Traffic, most of the votes. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted among the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – there is none, not those who did not vote, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – there is none, not those who did not vote, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted among the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put the motion for a decision on the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – one abstention – there are no, 10 MPs have not voted from the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Let me congratulate Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac on her election for the Republic Public Prosecutor and wish her much success in her work. Before we move on to the National Assembly's decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs, it is my duty to inform you that Vice President Igor Becic has decided to withdraw all the warnings he has made at today's session, and there is no notice. It's the right chairman to do it. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 21 July 2015, at 13 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted with 152 MPs, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on July 22, 2015, at 13 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to injuries. 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted on 140 MPs, of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 23 July 2015, at 15 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 130 MPs, of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Šormaz, at a session on July 23, 2015, at 17 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 MPs, of the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
