ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22212	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to pay our respects to tragically injured Serbian construction workers in a fire on the Siberian peninsula of Jamal. Praise them! We continue the work of the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament shall put their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go, Mr. Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22213	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I request an explanation from the High Council of the judiciary for the contest to elect judges for the basic court in Novi Pazar, which was announced in December 2014. We have a case that for many years now only candidates from the judicial and prosecutorial assistants are elected for judges, which is an open discrimination against candidates coming from other state authorities, law offices and other organisations. Article 46. The law on judges prohibits discrimination on any basis when electing and proposing candidates for elections. Among the candidates for judges of the basic court in Novi Pazar, 13 are candidates who are not judges or prosecutors and none of them are proposed for the election. From the explanation of the High Council of the judiciary, which was delivered to the Assembly, we cannot see the information about all the candidates who applied, and are not proposed to choose, so that we, the MPs, really do not know whether we actually vote for the best of them. We were contacted by candidates who were not proposed for the election, people finished colleges and before the deadline with much higher scores than the proposed candidates, who by all criteria have more points to choose from than those who have passed. I ask – how is that possible and on what basis are judges and prosecutors chosen in this country? You know, there's a public opinion that judges, prosecutors and other public officials with the public authority of Bosniak nationality are, like, ours. Even a minister a few months ago, when we talked about the pressures and problems that individual judges and prosecutors are making, he said, well, he's yours. We see that the MPs, neither the Bosniak national council, nor anyone who asks about them, nor consults us during their election. Furthermore, the acts delivered to us by the High Council of the Judiciary include only the biographies of the candidates chosen. This does not respect the legal obligation of the High Judicial Council to explain why it chose these candidates. We can't just be on the basis of the attached biographies that we know whether they're actually the best candidates and whether there may be someone among the denied candidates who fulfils the criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity for the choice. The same question and explanation I ask of the minister of justice, who is a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22214	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr Ljiljana Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22215	Thank you. I ask the question to the Ministry of Agriculture, I have asked this ministry a question of 12.6.2014 and I have not yet received the answer. I am now asking a new question, and it concerns the Ministry's intention to start solving the problem of the village and prevent its further dying, because the fact is that villages in Serbia are on the edge of a demographic and economic sunflower and it is estimated that there are about 145,000 houses across Serbia that are empty, which is about 1,000 villages. If we have 4,600 villages in Serbia, that means that each fourth is on the way to extinction. The fact is that more than 200 villages do not have any inhabitants under the age of 20, and over the past 50 years, around 8,000,000 people have passed from village to town, which is twice as short in the world. The fact is that villages are rapidly dying away, that houses are abandoned, unprocessed ornaments. There are estimated to be about a million acres of land that no one handles. Today, during this period of transition of our society, when a large number of almost employees are out of work, they would like to focus on agriculture, but they are confused and have no information, neither they nor those citizens who are already engaged in any branch of agriculture. They are the ones who are at risk because of unresolved key problems, such as poor infrastructure, what to invest in, without missing long-term health insurance problems, problems with agricultural pensions, property taxes, what to produce, how to produce, whether to place their product, whether the market is safe. They're without a guarantee, and they're where they put their hard work and their money. All we can think of is the manufacturer of raspberries and the problems they face every year. It counts on the assistance of EU funds, yet there is an unknown. Their concern is which branch of agriculture will be favored. They have information that the European Union's funding for Serbia's 175m-euro rural sector has arrived in Serbia, i.e. The Rural Development and Aid Programme for Agricultural Production. Now my questions to the Ministry of Agriculture are – will agricultural producers be informed and prepared in time for the use of the European Union's funding from the Development and Aid Programme for Agricultural Production? Will they be guaranteed availability and public access to these programmes, will they have state aid, what if they deal with a branch of agriculture, and our standards are not in line with European Union standards, will grenades be individual or intended for associations and what about cooperatives in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22216	Thank you, Mrs. Kosoric. The word is Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22217	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Customs Administration and, of course, to the Resistant Ministry of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It refers to and relates to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined in its programme as a strategic plan and a strategic goal, and this is economic development and, among other things, as one of the most important aspects of economic development - balanced regional development. Yesterday I had the opportunity to talk to colleagues from the Ministry of Economy, Export Insurance Agency and the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia and have a meeting with over 100 businessmen in Novi Pazar, from various branches and sectors of the economy, textile industries, furniture industries, food industries and other branches developed throughout the region. The issue of inability to customs goods in Novi Pazar has been raised. Although in the past two years, since the customs station has been stationed in the King, that Užice has received its customs office, that Kruševac, who is 50 kilometers from the King, has received his customs office, although more correspondence has been sent to the customs address and to the addresses of the competent ones, it is still shown that the inability for businesses in Novi Pazar to customs their goods. That is why business is being threatened in some way, i.e. business is being accumulated in the region which is at risk and which is underdeveloped anyway. The government of the Republic of Serbia itself has said several times that it will make a lot of efforts to bring about the undeveloped region, primarily infrastructure equipment, but that everything will be done to improve the business environment and attract as many investors as possible to solve the biggest problem in the region, which is unemployment that is more than 50%. I don't see any reason why a city that's a university centre, which has two universities, which has a lot of young people, a lot of serious businessmen, entrepreneurs and those who want to start their business, which has never relied on the public sector, has no customs office and that goods, we all know that this region is exactly the largest importer of wide-ranging goods from Turkey, that these goods are being transported to Nis, to Shid, to Saturday, to be unloaded there, to be loaded, loaded and returned there. In any case, it accumulates and as everyone who deals with private businesses knows that transport can increase business costs as much as 30% to 40%, hence the economy and businesses in the region are more uncompetitive for that percentage. Since the margins in the store, in production somewhere between five and 15%, it is clear that this is one serious cost for these businessmen and that it needs to be overcome in some way. I must also point out that the local self-government, headed by a very dynamic mayor, Mr Meh Meh Ahmutovic, has equipped and invested over 200,000 euros in that customs station and that the customs station currently has 17 people in Novi Pazar who have higher education. Therefore, it is one of the few local self-governments that has provided all the conditions for the customs office in the area to function. I will give you just one example, that in customs offices in Krusevec and Užica, as much as three million euros were invested to equip them. In any case, I urge the Ministry of Finance and Customs to encourage and try to solve this problem and encourage those who are proactive and who want to work, who represent local self-government, but want to work at full capacity for the benefit of the economy, for the benefit of entrepreneurs and, of course, what is most important, for economic development and security of conditions for new employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22218	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask Mr. Vice President to demand that we get some answers for a change to the parliamentary questions we are asking and that the Government be explained that this institution of parliamentary issues does not serve to have MPs speak and the government ignores it, but that indeed some reaction from their side arises from that. My first question is to the Minister of the Interior, who is very happy to conduct investigations in this room, and he rarely makes judgments at a time when no process is being conducted against certain people. Namely, there was information that I was asking to be told whether it was true and if it is true, how could it come to this, who would answer my recommendation to Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic to investigate what happened there. In fact, it seems that the public procurement for police officers’ socks has been awarded by the “Natur fruits” company worth 15 million dinars, which may not be strange if it were not for a company for the production and trade of fruit on a large scale, so it is somewhat unusual that the socks for the police are purchased by a company that is otherwise engaged in the fruit trade. To make things even more interesting, all the socks the police got for their officers are over 45. The other public procurement that was made in the police is a public procurement for shoes for the same officers. The procurement was received by the company "Krunik" d.o.o. Belgrade, which, according to the Business Registers Agency, has only one employee. Mr. Becic, I think you, like all of us who come every day to this assembly, see the officers standing in front of our congregation. These people were in shoes until a while ago. They wore shoes on their uniforms, believe it or not, because they waited for those public procurements to be conducted so they could get socks and shoes. The stockings are provided by a fruit trade company, and the shoes are obtained by a company that has one single employee, according to the Agency for Business Registers. It's not something I make up. So, my question to Mr Stefanovic and the recommendation is that he investigates it a little, since he likes to deal with investigations as well. Another question of mine, which is also about establishing responsibility, be to the entire government, because I don't really know who we might be asking. Who will be responsible for the poor assessment of Lazar Krstic, which caused us to lose 783m euros? Namely, when Mr. Krstic came to the government, he was represented by the prime minister as wunderkinda, whom he had a gentle, fatherly relationship, which he even addressed from time to time from "son". Well, Mr. Vukic's "son" has damaged 783m euros, because he refused to turn credits that Serbia has raised from dollar to euro. Just to be clear, 783m euros is a two-year savings from wage cuts and pensions. So all the money that Serbian citizens will receive for two years through their salaries and pensions was spent by the government of the Republic of Serbia, its minister, Mr. Vukic, who brought him, who promoted him as a wunderkinda, on one of his poor estimates. Is there any awareness in the Serbian government that someone should answer for it? If so, should it be Mr. Krstic, did the one who brought him, did the one who made him something that apparently Mr. Krstic didn't? It seems more and more, as time goes by, that his engagement has benefited only him, and Serbian citizens will, through a reduction in wages and pensions for two years, pay only one mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22220	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. I'm sure we'll make sure that you get the information you need as soon as possible, even though you know the powers of the M.O.P. and you're sure all the actions you think are being investigated. As far as the verdict is concerned, you know it's not the MUP, it's the Serbian judiciary, not the Justice Department. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Igor, we did not ask you. ) Mr. Stefanovic, I only told the public who was making the verdicts and who was doing the investigations, and the other details will be answered by the MUP to answer the questions asked by Miss Jerkov. I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is Mr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, Madam Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I will ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, and my question is – when will the municipal equipment of the Kopalnik Tourist Centre be completed? Namely, what it's about. We are all aware that tourism as an economic branch is one of the easiest drivers in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, that it is something that we have as a gift of nature, and what the people say is a gift from God and that we only need to put into operation, and thus we start both business and all that that follows tourism as an economic branch. The tourist resort Kopalnik is one of the most interesting tourist destinations of the Republic of Serbia and is important for the municipalities that are gravitating, which rely on the tourist center i.e. it is also important for the entire Serbian economy, for the Republic of Serbia's budget, because significant funds are collected and filled into the Republic of Serbia's budget. What is the problem, what is the municipal equipment of the Tourist Centre of Kopalnik, and it is located on a mountain declared a national park does not follow the development of tourist offer and tourist facilities in Kopalnik. For your information Tourist center Kopalnik has two parts and it is a tourist center that has about four thousand beds. So these are "Connects", "Sun Summits", JAT apartments and that I still don't list much more, much bigger tourist potentials, a much bigger weekend settlement that has over 3,000 built buildings with all those accompanying capacities they contain. The main problem is inadequately solved sewerage, water supply, parking space and everything that makes the attractive and popular and acceptable contents of a tourist center. The tourist center Kopalnik and the top of the Kopalnik has solved the wastewater and sewerage system by building a wastewater factory 20 years ago that is directly poured out into the river on the south side of the mountain that goes directly to Ibar. That would be fine if that wastewater factory worked. So, the factory has been working for 20 years and the waste water is being poured across the river from the Kopalnik directly into Ibar, and on the other hand, the settlement doesn't even have that benefit, if it's a benefit at all, but all 3,000 objects have septic caves which are inadmissible, you'll agree with me for a tourist center, especially if it's in the national park area. A few years ago, the government set out to solve the problem. Studies have been done. They're designed to elaborate, and that's what they care about. Nor was the problem of the Kopalnik Tourist Centre continued to solve further and the Kopalnik resort weekend, and they naturally, as the most attractive offer of the Republic of Serbia, have a bigger visit year after year. I am afraid, by not hiring the government, by non-engagement of the Republic of Serbia's budget that a tourist centre that makes a significant contribution to the republic's budget does not start stagnating and not die. What is expected of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to invest, to equip the mountain communally, because they are not capable of making municipalities that engraving on the Kopalnik, which are Raška, Kursumlija, Blace, Josianica Banja. So these are small underdeveloped municipalities, because they see their perspective in the tourist center, their possible development. What is industry for some parts of Serbia or what is agriculture for Vojvodina is the Kopalnik for these municipalities and that is where we can get new jobs, hire these municipalities, i.e. people of these municipalities and reduce unemployment in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22222	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22223	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, and I am joining speakers and colleagues who have asked before me the question of the necessity to investigate all the bad things in public procurement done in all the institutions of the Republic but also in the province. What surprises me, which is the fact that someone was worried about what was obtained and obtained socks for police officers in numbers from 43 to 45. Well, I apologize to Miss Jerkov for not doing pygmies in the police of the Republic of Serbia, but working citizens of the Republic of Serbia, those people of course wear shoes, but also socks of those numbers. What I would also invite Mr Stefanovic to investigate these public procurements, but remind those who are asking questions to do a little better research when they are called, and are scheduled in late 2013 and early 2014 when Mr Stefanovic was not interior minister but president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to see at least one apology because the burden put on the soul of some other people is trying to put on the burden of the Home Secretary. That's why I'm surprised why one of the MPs here wonders why the M.O.P. is investigating. Why is the Minister of the Ministry of Interior investigating? Excuse me, and who's the ministry supposed to be investigating? Probably that we should have a M.O.P. that would be for parades, for showing off, say we have M.O.P. It is likely that such a question is asked by someone to whom investigations are not responding and I join, not only for these investigations, but I am joining the questions concerning investigations and procurements in the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund for Public Procurement and the Marifetteluca investigation in all the bodies of the AP Vojvodina and the Fund for Development and the Capital Investments Fund. How and why did millions of euros invested in these funds turn into huge debts? Where did that money go? How far did these investigations and investigations go? Who's responsible? I think we owe these answers to the citizens of Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia living in Vojvodina. Also, speaking of the MUP, I ask the Minister of the Interior – and when was the last time uniforms were obtained? It seems to me ten years ago, and it seems to me that these shoes where the members of the MUP come are due to the fact that ten years the same ones who ran the AP Vojvodina today didn't take care of the members of the internal affairs, so they made them wear these, or even tear up their shoes. Now they're getting new uniforms by April of this year, and all members of the MUP will get new uniforms, and as far as the investigation is concerned, I think it's necessary to run them by the MUP. It must be done according to both the Constitution and the law. Also, I ask the interior minister, how long has it been since the Azotara investigations of former Minister Sasa Dragina's involvement? How far did it come with the famous Nuba Invest affair and the involvement of former minister, former regime Oliver Dulic? They are not socks, either on their heads or on their feet, but they are millions of euros that have disappeared from the budget, both the AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia. I call on all my colleagues to make sure before they ask the question even before they drop the arrow, the political arrow, of course, to be well informed, because the public procurement of these famous socks were launched at the end of 2013 and early 2014, when Mr Stefanovic was not the interior minister, but according to the Law, according to the Constitution, will investigate this and I join the issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22224	I thank Mr Babić, you will receive a reply from the interior ministry and we hope that the good trend of Minister Stefanovic will continue and that we will soon receive reports of all investigations that have harassed citizens over the past period. Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, report to the floor, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dubravka Filipovski, Miroslav Markicevic and Branko Djurovic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the proposal for an amending law and additions to the law on aiding shipping. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session by Professor Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Dejan Trifunović State Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Leposava Sojić Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Veljko Kovacević adviser at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Katarina Rakic, Olgica Batic, as well as the Committee on Spatial Traffic Planning, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received reports from the Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications Committee and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Here's Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have now reported from the violation of Articles 32 and 33. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, and the members of the 32nd and 33rd concern the actions of the Vice President of the National Assembly. Here's how our Rules of Procedure got hurt in Articles 32 and 33 and this morning. National MP Zoran Zivkovic was prevented for the 16th time in a row, respected by Mrs and Mr Becic, from entering our large National Assembly hall despite submitting these three draft laws to the 16th Amendments. Despite the fact that seven of the 16 amendments were accepted, despite his intention, honored gentlemen, to explain here today these nine, unaccepted amendments, with the hope that in one dialogue, he would come under conditions to accept perhaps some of those nine, now unaccepted amendments and MP Zoran Zivkovic, honored gentlemen, here are 16 working days of our National Assembly who cannot exercise their rights and responsibilities as a National MP in accordance with Articles 283 and 284. The MP of the National Assembly, because at one session, the second regular session of the National Assembly was exposed to one will, precisely yours, Mr. Becic. You, I think, used some unsuitable terms, one part and insulted the MPs, and therefore MP Zoran Zivkovic today cannot participate in the work of our assembly for the 16th time in a row. I suggest, Mr. Becic, that you invite Mr. Zoran Zivkovic into the big hall today and help me and the opposition MPs convince the minister to accept these nine amendments so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22226	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Also, only four more working days and we will be happy to see Mr. Zivkovic in the large hall of the National Assembly. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment with the correction were brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Bečić, Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman today, respected Mrs. Mihajlović and honored guests from the ministry, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, and unfortunately this amendment has not been adopted by the Government on behalf of the Government of Mrs Mihajlovic, and I believe that we have a good argument to adopt this amendment and to make it the eighth of our adopted amendment to these three draft laws. I will try to use this time to convince our ministry and ministry guests in a dialogue now to accept this amendment to Article 1. Here we are, gentlemen, as far as this amendment is concerned. The government has proposed that Article 4 of point 22 concerning the definition of a recognised organisation be amended in the Law on Maritime Navigation. Here, let me try to explain that. Says – A recognised organisation is an organisation that meets the conditions prescribed by a special regulation and which is, etc. We now have one proposal to replace the term. We have proposed, gentlemen, that the recognised organisation be defined like this – the recognised organisation is an organisation that meets the conditions defined by a special regulation, so that one word is not repeated immediately by the three or four times in a row. What happened? The government has explained this to us - the amendment is not accepted because the proposed formulation set out in the draft law is in line with the definition of the recognised organisation in Directive 2009, 15. The European Community. Look, gentlemen, I could respect this argument, call for a harmonisation with a directive that applies in the territory of EU Member States, but here I now have two objections and I now ask the Minister for Attention, because I think these two objections are a good argument to adopt this. Be careful, we say that the recognised organisation is the one that meets the conditions defined by a special regulation, and the government says – prescribed by a special regulation. When it is said that this is in line with the definition in the EU directive, then, respected gentlemen, I conclude, wait for it to be translated. The Serbian language is not yet an official EU language. So we need to translate something that goes there, and I think we better put it -- defined by a certain regulation, rather than -- prescribed by a certain regulation. Another thing, gentlemen, our proposal, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is in the spirit of our language. We all know here that we can talk about the spirit of time, about the spirit of the law, but we can and we must, gentlemen, also talk about the spirit of language, about the spirit of our language, and I think if this change is accepted, it will not be contrary to the directive, it is to accept that term defined. I'm asking your opinion now. Of course, I'll accept the explanation if you stick to it, but I think we have a good argument here. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22228	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today, Mr Becic, the Honorable Mrs Mihajlović and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I would like to say here in one minute that the Government has accepted this amendment, but since we have had some kind of misunderstanding in our principle debate here from the Members of the SNS, above all, about our intervention in Article 4. The bill requires me to remind the MPs of our argument for this amendment. In this amendment, we have announced to the government that we need to add one comma. Dear gentlemen, our proposal came across, for example, Mr. Babic of the SNS in a general debate over a mockery. He spoke for a few minutes about how it is the unserious work of the MPs, and now, honourable gentlemen, we come to the conclusion that the government and, on behalf of the Government of the Ministers very reasonablely conclude that the signs of interpretation, in this case, are really important things for our law. Dear gentlemen, there is also what is called language reading and interpretation of the law. In this language reading and interpretation, there are also important signs of interpretation, which means, gentlemen, that any proposal that is at least relevant to adding one comma, a two-point, a dot or any word or letter can significantly change what is the meaning and spirit of a law, and also a language, respected gentlemen. Here on this amendment, I would like to declare one small victory of the opposition, here, on this one case concerning the introduction, the introduction of a comma into a single member of the bill we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22230	Mr Pavicevic, will you explain the amendment to Article 6? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No. I thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22231	Thank you. I'm more provoked by the speech of the previous speaker, who in the previous article noticed that there was a decimal missing, and here he didn't notice that the whole sentence was missing. In the first part of this amendment that I have proposed I have just done what my colleague did, and I am glad that his amendment has been accepted, because they do not usually come to vote for their amendments. It simply became something that was common, so, well, they had a little victory, because they couldn't have done it otherwise. With this amendment, I have proposed adding a sentence saying that so far the views of four to ten have become positions from three to nine, since the three positions so far have been deleted. In the second part, I have proposed adding attitude six, which also brings our legislation into line with the EU Maritime Equipment Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22232	Thank you, Miss Rakic. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mrs. Rakic, I see that you read these amendments carefully and intervene when you judge for yourself that I should support it. I'm not saying we're doing this perfectly. And we get some kind of failure, we don't see maybe some kind of stuck, some kind of word or some sentence, and, of course, the idea is that we all get together here, Mr. Becic, to come up with the laws that we adopt to make them the best possible. Mrs. Mihajlovic, a respected guest from the Ministry, I am sorry that our amendment to Article 13 of this Bill has not been adopted, and I must say, among other things, that this law also concerns maritime navigation. There are some of us here who understand ourselves a little bit, maybe even practice sometimes, and it seems to me that being an experience, gentlemen, can mean a lot to our joint work in the legislative body in our assembly. Of course, the content of Article 13, as we have announced to Mrs. Mihajlovic, again concerns the spirit of language. Look, it may be irrelevant to someone what is spirit and time, what is the spirit of the law and what is the spirit of language, but here in opposition and the spirit of time and the spirit of the law and the spirit of language are important, gentlemen. The government has proposed that the formulation be as follows: "No employment on a ship under 18 is allowed if... “ and then the sentence runs to the end, to the point as one sign of interpretation, gentlemen, with the regular conclusion of the sentence. We have proposed the following formulation and it seems to us that it is still in accordance with our language, that it goes with the spirit of our language. We say: “A ship is not allowed to employ persons under the age of 18 if carrying out work on board by those persons can endanger their health or safety in accordance with the relevant international standards. ” I have to add here, it may seem to someone, including Mrs. Rakic, for example, or Mr. Babić, who is not here right now, and has announced a strong participation in this debate, but I can see that today is not interested, it seems to us that this coin "on board" if it repeats itself twice, and that the distance of words is smaller, yet it suggests that we should make this space a little bit bigger and that it would be more in the spirit of the Serbian language, respected gentlemen, and above all Mrs. Mihajlovic. I ask you once again to consider the spirit of language, of our language and of our tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22234	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22235	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected, amendment to Article 13 of the proposed law. And this amendment, I would say, is the paradigm of a situation where today we have again for who knows which time we found ourselves in this House, and what caused, among other things, the gentleman MP who spoke before me. I will read to you the essence of the proposed amendment: “A ship is not allowed to employ persons under the age of 18... “ etc., and the proposed law says that no employment on a ship under 18 is allowed. So it's just a replacement order of words in a sentence. Like I said, this is the paradigm of the situation we were in today. I have understanding of the needs of some MPs to promote themselves in this way. I can have some human understanding if they want to play this way with parliament, but I just want to remind you, and that's what the head of our parliamentary group talked about the other day, how much their game cost the citizens of Serbia. I think it's about time we took this situation seriously. I also join the appeal of Miss Rakic, who earlier called on the previous speaker, not to mention his last name, that, at least once, if he wishes to contribute in some way to the improvement of the law, remained voting for his proposals, and not when we come to the situation that we have a vote, he goes away, leaves parliament and shows the secretary a certain note of indifference. Thank you. I suggest that this amendment be rejected once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22236	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, including Mrs Rakic and Mr Markovic, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and today Chairman of Mr Bečić and the Honored Mrs Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I am pleased that the MPs and SNS in the voting day will still vote for the seven amendments submitted to the National Assembly by the People's MPs of the New Party. This means, gentlemen, that our work here and how it makes sense and not only that we, honored gentlemen, and now it is important to say about the amendment to Article 14, we are dealing with one basic reading of texts sent by the Government to the Assembly, by submitting amendments, we, respected gentlemen and now here I am telling Mr Markovic, are dealing with here and preparing the bill, but unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, this progressive majority of the bill does not want to put together as points of the agenda. We have submitted here a bill amending the Law on Higher Education, which provides that one of the principles of the higher education system in our country be the principle of academic integrity, Mr. Becic. Then the forward majority says – we won't discuss it. Well, how are you gentlemen? Then it bothers when we add the commas, when we add the words, when we're qualitatively working on changing the content of the law. Here, for example, by amendment to Article 14, I think our language structure, honored gentlemen, is still better here, with the understanding of this argument sent by the government. The government says - the amendment is not accepted because the proposed formulation of the bill is more normatively correct. I'm not convinced that's the case, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I see now one of your dissatisfactions about our inconclusiveness, and it's okay to have different opinions sometimes and to face them here, so let's see which can point us towards the common good in a better way. I think a better formulation is like this – the employer is obliged to conclude an insurance policy or other financial guarantee to cover claims for the event of death or damage to the work of the seamen. I think that formula is much better than – the employer is obliged to conclude an insurance policy or other financial guarantee, in order to cover it. It seems to me that if we were to take special time here right now to consult experts both for language and for grammar and for spelling, that the formulation we are proposing would be better. I would be very pleased if SNS MPs in Voting Day voted to accept this amendment, despite the refusal now in the debate here, including Mrs. Mihajlovic today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22238	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Just to point out that MPs will not have the honour of voting for your amendments, because they have become an integral part of the bill, but by voting in general, you have the support for your amendments. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22239	Thank you. Here, I would call on Mr Pavicevic to vote for his amendment at least once, since so far it has been a practice for him never to vote on his 200-250 amendments, and he knows to endure them. Given the number of amendments they have submitted, it turns out that the whole law is not in line with Serbian, with the spirit of Serbian language, which I absolutely find incorrect. I believe that the law is indeed in line with the Serbian language, although this formulation certainly is better than the wording they had previously taught, which is "expunge", "expunge". You took a step forward, which is one good thing. But what you've been doing is certainly a lexical legal order. This legislative authority has a body that deals with technical regulation, so I don't know if it's your desire to put these people out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22240	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22241	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, the amendment should not be accepted, and the reason for not accepting the amendment is that the legislative framework, i.e. the laws, is a normative framework. Of course they should be in the spirit of the Serbian language and the legislator, the competent ministry, is exactly writing it in the spirit of the Serbian language, but certainly, the law cannot be literary work. For this very reason, the amendment should not be accepted, as well as for the reasons of a more fully language-corrected proposal made by the proposing, i.e. the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22242	Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becicu, respected Mrs Mihajlović and respected guests of the Ministry, it is necessary, I think, to try to convince our guests from the Government to accept our amendment to Article 15 and to react to the debate on this amendment on certain issues, particularly with MPs and SNS MPs on whether to vote for some of our amendments or not. I just have to remind you here, since this amendment essentially concerns the same thing as the previous one that has not been accepted, to remind you that we have not now submitted any of the amendments to be "expunged", but that it is, for example, The governor of NBS Mrs Tabakovic, when her draft laws were in the Assembly, accepted our two amendments "expunge". It is for me, gentlemen, one of the proof that the amendment can also be deleted can also make sense, that the amendment that is suggested to add one comma can make sense, because our laws must be both normative and linguistical to be very good laws, gentlemen. The other thing, dear Mr. Becic, of course the laws aren't literary works, but, gentlemen, gentlemen, our National Assembly is not allowed to have any sketches. The bill must be clear and linguistic, and normative, as it is said here, shaped, so that we MPs should not have to deal with the work as well. If such a bill already comes, it is necessary, despite the fact that we have services, for people employed in the ministry to do so. Dear gentlemen, all this contributes to what is the purpose of our work, and our work here is about the adoption of the law. We're a legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22244	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22245	I suggest that this amendment be rejected as well. Let us see what the previous speaker’s efforts are to do in a qualitative way to correct this law. In Article 15, paragraph 1 of the amended Article 74 is amended and reads – in the Republic of Serbia, powers on the ability, i.e. the special training of seamen, issued by the EU Member State or by the States of the Contracting Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as the Swiss Confederation are recognised. That is how the amendment is proposed. In the text of the proposed law, it is said - the powers of training, i.e. the special training of seamen, which have been issued by EU Member States or the Contracting States of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as the Swiss Confederation, are recognised in the Republic of Serbia. So here we put two words after it in the proposed text of the law as the first two words, and that contains the amendment. Just for the sake of the citizens, for the sake of the public, let's see what this qualitative shift is all about, which the previous speaker is talking about. I would like to appeal once again to the conscience of the previous speaker, that the Assembly is not something to play with, that Serbian citizens did not deserve this by Mr Pavicevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22246	Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and respected guests from the ministry, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 16 of this bill and I would like to mention two important things about the debate on this amendment. One thing, gentlemen, is that we are pleased that we have affected the quality of this bill and that the government has accepted seven of the 15 amendments to this bill. We consider it a kind of success. Here I want to highlight it as one important thing. This means that in one dialogue we can work together to fix one text, not that we are divided into these or those, but as a legislative body to ensure agreement on the content of one sentence, attitude or law in whole. The other thing, gentlemen, about our debate on one of the previous amendments, we have seen how it is possible that the law contained is improved by adding a comma, and here, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, we suggest that this one be moved, because this one appears to be an excess. I'll try, I may be wrong, but to try to convince the MPs and Mrs. Mihajlovic. We propose such a sentence – the medical examination referred to in Article 4 does not apply to health examinations, etc. After this – the medical examination, from the position of the 4th member, stands stuck. As far as I know Serbian, there's no point in standing there. What would that stuck-up signify, gentlemen? Well, it seems to me that the tightness is too high, but if there's any normative reason, I'm not familiar with it, so let me take it. I think this comma should be deleted. Once again, let us remind ourselves of those two words: wipe yourself. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22248	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22249	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Pavicevic, it was interesting to read the proposals for your amendments. I'm sorry that your amendments don't deal with the essence of these amendments and the addition of the law, because I don't think we're going to get into a situation - an outside hungry man and a poor man inside of you. What you need to know, and you don't seem to know from these amendments, is that there is a unique methodology for making regulations. Next time, I will gladly, as you have instructed me to make an essay, immediately tell you about the essay, don't need instructions, send that unique methodology of making regulations, and the next time they are the next laws, and there will be many in this National Assembly, as suggestions, then I ask you to look at it first, so when you look at it, then you give your suggestions. For everyone and for the sake of time and for the sake of efficiency, I hope you will pay attention to this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22250	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22251	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bečiću, respected Mrs. Mihajlović and respected guests from the ministry, Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 19 of this bill, sticking to, at least as far as I know, the rules contained in this document concerning methodology and the drafting of rules that we adhere to in our National Assembly. It is possible, gentlemen, that we may be wrong sometime, and of course we are always able to accept that we have made a mistake, but it seems to us that the adoption of the seven amendments is a sign that we have worked well, diligently, and it seems to me that this amendment to Article 19, at least consider whether it can be adopted. It's not about language, and this is one of the few amendments that don't concern language. It concerns one thing that we have been thinking about, and it seems to us that in Article 19, a new member of 84b should change and it should be said – the marine identification card is issued with a period of 10 years. In the government's proposal, behind this for 10 years, it's stuck, so it says it should be restored after the first five years. For example, I'm not a man who's very professional in this area, but it seems to me that if it's issued for a period of 10 years, then there shouldn't be any additional conditions, unless it's a particular requirement for international norms right now. If it's international norms, I'm wondering again why would we commit someone to having five years to rebuild it for ten years? I accept the possibility that it's generally accepted somewhere, but now I've compared it to another situation. My ID is issued for 10 years, so I'm told, on condition that you restore it after five. Why would it be so, I don't understand, but I accept that there's some reason? Let's hear it, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22252	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22253	Two things, whenever you explain your amendments, you say this -- at least as far as I know, it seems to me. I'm sorry, there isn't – it seems to me, as far as I know, but there's a document, there's an argument, there's a paper that says it has to or doesn't have to be, it refers to your points, it's stuck, it's moving, whether it's a subject or a predicate. Usually the subject goes first, as far as I've learned, and maybe I haven't learned enough, but when you say this is the first amendment where you deal, where you think, in fact, about the law, I commend you there. Thank you for thinking about it, but you're not enough because there's an International Convention that says it has to be restored after the first five years. Therefore, for this reason your amendment was rejected, but it's great that you read something else this time, and you weren't just dealing with commas and dots.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22254	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22255	Of course, the amendment to this article of the law should be rejected for the reasons stated by the Minister, but I would add another explanation for not accepting the amendment, which is that all maritime checks, i.e. certificates, are issued with a five-year period of validity, i.e. all seamen, all persons boarding on board, after five years, must undergo the renewal of all their checks, i.e. certificates. Therefore, it is also a reason not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22256	Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečiću, respected Mrs Mihajlovic and respected guests from the ministry, Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 20 of this bill. To me, let me use that coin again, it seems that Mrs. Mihajlovic has now started to get a little angry, that with less understanding of access to our argument for certain amendments to these drafts of the law, forgetting, respected MPs, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, that here in principle I highlighted three elements based on which, gentlemen, I even commended the approach to interpreting these laws and then announced that our remarks, concerning these three draft laws, mainly refer to language issues. Then I understood that Mrs. Mihajlovic had some kind of praise, to say, if that means anything, she recognized, understood and thanked herself for it, but also admitted that the content of this law should experience significant language transformation and improvement. That's when I announced, come on Thursday, and that's today, to talk about it and when I came here, despite the announcements of both Mr Babic and Mrs Mihajlovic, we don't have that. Mr. Babic is not here, has retired, will not participate in the debate on the amendments, and Mrs. Mihajlovic, gentlemen, has started to be angry. I don't think it should happen with any anger that anyone in the name of the Government, and neither should we, the MPs of the people, should be directed towards each other, but reasonably, by focusing on arguments, or on those arguments that are being said, it seems to me, because some good intention, goal, and practice, respected gentlemen, can come from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22258	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I think MPs have an understanding, because today is mourning day in the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22259	Dear Mr Pavicevic, it seems to me that you are the least concerned with the essence of these amendments and the addition of the law. I could be wrong. As for my emotional state, thank you for thinking about whether I'm angry, not angry, etc. No, I am delighted to read your amendments. They're great with a dot and a dot, but I need to remind you of one thing. When we discussed this law in principle, i.e. three amendments and amendments to the law, you made it very clear, in front of all of us, that you said and commended these amendments and amendments to the law. I now urge you, as a legislator of this law, on behalf of the Serbian Government, to vote for these amendments and additions to the law and one and the other and the third. Not because one part of your amendments has become an integral part of the law, but because you have praised the essence of changes and additions. I think that would really show that you care about these laws being, not only well applied, but also to express the position of your political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22260	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22261	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. So, amendment to Article 20 of the proposed law. In the absence of arguments, in the absence of a basis for essential criticism, in the absence of real facts, we are now, here for a very serious time dealing with grammar, we are dealing with spelling and all this would not be a problem, but in no way does it affect the essence of the proposed laws, does not change them, does not make this qualitative change, Mr Pavicic. She has a folk, and she has a priest who baptizes goats in the absence of work, etc. And, now, here one MP has been acting in accordance with that people's saying all morning, but the problem is that it costs all the citizens of Serbia and costs them a lot. But it is important to point out here who is responsible for this situation, who caused additional costs for Serbian citizens today? I hope that we will refuse this amendment and any other amendments that in no way contribute to the improvement of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22262	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mr Bečić, respected Mrs Mihajlovic and honored guests of the Ministry, are three things I want to say here on the amendment to Article 23 of this bill, which is also our last amendment to this bill, which has been rejected. That the government didn't accept. First of all, I understand the argument. So, from an explanation that says the amendment is not accepted because an amendment was accepted with the correction of Parliamentarian Katarina Rakic, which was submitted to Article 23. Another thing, gentlemen, I don't understand the objection that there's some extra cost here now when the National Assembly is in session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is Thursday, our Rules of Procedure is finely scheduled for us to work Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in a regular session, but when there is a need for an extraordinary session, we need to have a principle debate, and we need to have an amendment debate. Dear gentlemen, this is part of our regular activities, to the soul, as part of an extraordinary session, but the request for an extraordinary session was sent by the Government of Honored Lords of the Republic of Serbia. If the government asked for an emergency session, that means the government is responsible for some extra expenses, not us. But I still don't accept that argument. We have to sit down all the time. Democracy is the least expensive, gentlemen. The third thing, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I will vote for the adoption of these three draft laws that you have sent to the National Assembly. Here, and applaud the MPs of the SNS. In that name, Mrs. Mihajlović, last time we exchanged this manual for writing essays, and today I have a book for you. Mrs. Mihajlovic, author, legends of Serbian democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22264	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22265	Which was also a folk letter, just to finish the book on the question, Mr. Vienna.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22266	Here you go. Just time to announce.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22267	I've got one for you, and that's Vesna Pesic, gentlemen. There was a letter here. She wrote a book called "The Wild Society, How We Got Here". We should all read it, and one copy, here, I present to Mrs. Mihajlovic, the minister in our government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22268	I thank Mr Pavicevic, but if you continue to do so, it is a very big attack on your home budget. I thank you, the People's MP, Marijan Rističević, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this doctor is disturbing me again. This doctor is distracting me again, walking in colorful shoes, as I speak. Can I speak, or will the doctor continue to disturb me? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am voting for the amendment of the previous speaker, but provided he keeps his promise once. He repeatedly said he would vote for some draft laws. He doesn't vote for his proposals or his amendments. If he shows up at a vote and votes for this bill, here I am voting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22270	Thank you. The 26th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 26th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 27th amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we're done... You should have come forward, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go. The word is Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22271	We spoke in the principle debate several times about the deadline for identification cards. It is interesting that no MP has proposed an amendment. In that sense, I accept the amendment of the committee itself. So, instead of January 1, 2018, we replace June 1st, 2016 and find opportunities to make financial ID cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22272	I understand you accepted this amendment. Since the proposal's representative, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic, has accepted the amendment, I only find that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment and that we will vote in favour of this amendment in the day of voting. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Katarina Rakić, Olgica Batić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Home, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blagoje Bradić, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, Milutin Mrkonjic, Stefana Milutinović, Đorđe Milicevic, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr Vesna Besarović, Dr Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak, Ljiljana Nestorović, as well as the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected, as incomplete, amendments: which, after Article 63, added a new member of 63a, with a correction, together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Snezana Malovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic; and which, after Article 93, adds a new member of 93a, who was jointly submitted by the MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic. In accordance with Article 163(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, my colleague Biljana Hasanovic and I had the intention to add, in a member who sets out the terms, at point 24. 24a, which reads – the port agent is a licensed domestic legal person for the performance of the port agency tasks which, in the name of and for the account of the owner of the charterer vessel or the manager of the vessel, performs agency tasks according to competent state institutions, port users and port operators. The second part relating to the same member, in paragraph 8, which is changed to point 45, to reject the word - domestic. Our idea was that, in fact, the concept of a port agent actually exists in comparative law, but in our legal system it was not regulated, and we think it was necessary to standardise an institute - a port agent, as a representative of a shipman who realised payments to the state. I think that the introduction of licensed port agents, in addition to more effective application of the rules in this area, would result in additional budgetary revenue. The idea is that a port agent, based on the power of attorney, would also perform on behalf and at the expense of the authorising officer, port agency affairs, and assistance, mediation and representation. The port agent would carry out operations relating to navigation, ships, their use, especially the reception and dispatch of ships, the intermediation or conclusion of contracts on the use of ships, the purchase, construction, refurbishing and repair of ships, the insurance of ships, cargo and the rights of supply in supplies, the filling of the crew, as well as the passenger safety business. We have received the answer that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of business and, consequently, the term - port agent subject to the regulation of the Law on Maritime and Inland Navigation, and more detailed will be governed by a law that will regulate private-legal matter in the field of navigation. I think it was necessary, however, to include the concept of port agents in this law too, because this law regulates the rules on navigation and ports on internal waters. As for this second part of our amendment, which is deleted in terms of dockers - domestic, since the port is a space built and equipped to receive, board and unload and store goods in the loading and landing of passengers, not only domestic but also foreign ships, I think it is necessary to delete the word - domestic from the given concept. If it is in Article 1. Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on navigation and ports on inland waters given the term - ports, I will quote part, says – the port is a watery and water-related area built and equipped for the reception of domestic ships and ships by the flag, while in the description of the concept - the ports focus only on domestic ships. I have a few questions, and I think my colleague, Branka Bosnjak, has made some misunderstandings in the principle debate. I think we'll be in a very big problem if you don't explain some things to us. If we know that the Danube spends 450 tourist ships a year, of which it is in 2012 in Donji Milanovac, it is the municipality of Majdanpek from which I come, it has agreed to 92 cruise ships, where it was visiting Donji Milanovac 18,000 passengers, I am interested in what will be, where will the ships and foreign flags stand after this adoption of the law and what will happen to the ports – Apatin, Belgrade, Bačka Palanka, Beocin, etc.? Will it be possible to rename some ports to ports to allow the landing of foreign cruises and foreign ships, to allow tourists to visit our country or might find another solution? If this second part of our amendment was acceptable, perhaps the committee itself could have resorted to a solution and he would have made an amendment that would have been acceptable, and I ask you to answer this second part of my question. I suppose the Law on Maritime and Inland Navigation will regulate that first part of my amendment, or port agent, but I'm interested in how to make the dock of foreign cruisers, ships for tourist purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22274	Thank you. Also, I would like to inform the MPs that MPs Stefana Miladanovic, Milutin Mrkonjic, Djordje Milicevic, had withdrawn the amendments to Articles 71, 84 and 91 immediately before the start of the debate. It's a bill of law. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22275	Just a few clarifications. For the first part of your amendment, there is a special Law on Commercial Broding, which will be done by 1 April, I hope, in Parliament, and regarding this second part, we have already spoken in the principle debate, but again, ports are for both international and domestic ships, ports only for domestic and passenger ports are open to international tourism. What you mentioned, Apatine, and everything else is ports. So you didn't mention, they're ports, and by the very definition that we said they're for both domestic and foreign. And what number of ports, etc., have been decided on by the Serbian government. So we have a decision from the Serbian government, therefore, on how to determine the port and which ports are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22276	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22277	Yes, from the time of the head of the parliamentary group. Dear Vice President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our MP group has submitted as many amendments as it has tried to improve this law. So far, as the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party, we have had the largest number of amendments accepted, i.e. among the six MPs who have the most accepted amendments, five from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I must admit that Mrs. Mihajlovic also had her own understanding of our amendments. She didn't accept any amendments this time, and last time I asked, why are you an angry minister, I didn't get an answer. In all likelihood, for this reason you have not accepted any of our amendments, and there are many good amendments, this colleague of Biljana and my colleague Branka from the Social Democratic Party Group, who are very useful amendments, which you have not accepted, that is my opinion and you are angry, that is my opinion, for a reason, but I only later found that because we asked for your resignation one 15 days ago and instead of us being angry that you have not resigned, you are angry. There's no reason. You'll be in that place while Mr. Wolfie asks you to. But this amendment, which the colleagues have submitted, makes a lot of sense. The port agent has not been defined in any law. So there's no definition of what a port agent is. What is defined in our legal system by the Law on Liabilities is an agent contract, i.e. a trade representation contract under which a Contracting Party, a commercial agent, undertakes to make efforts and efforts to bring its employer into contact with third parties and, under the approval of the authorising officer, concludes a contract with those third parties. How and can this definition of an agent even apply to a port agent? Basically, yes, it is wide enough. However, in certain special laws, certain agents have been defined, such as in the Insurance Act, normised, laws from other areas, and it was perfectly natural for us to have in this law an exact definition of what a port agent is and what that port agent should do, what his job is. It is very clear here that he, on behalf of and for the account of the owner of the vessel, the tenant or the manager of the vessel, performs port agency tasks according to competent state institutions, port users and port operators. So, on behalf of and for the account of the employer, in this case the tenant or manager of the vessel. Would that provision be excess in this law? No, I don't. Would you more precisely define what a port agent is? Yeah. But my opinion is that for some other reason, you have not accepted any amendments to the SDS, and I think that will make the law worse. Let's say, the other day, when we talked about the law in principle, when you made us talk about the law in particular, we said we'd talk about the day of the amendment story and, here, we're talking about this particular article. Let's say this morning when I came from Novi Sad, I can't help but walk past the Iron Bridge. He looks so daunting (the MP shows the photograph). So, no workers and no building. I've seen, truth be told, a group of people out there, and it's possible they're just these port agents. I don't think they care that much about whether this amendment of ours will be accepted, but whether the ships of their managers, or the vessel owner, will be able to sail the Danube, because because of your responsibility, Madam Minister, for almost a year now, the works have been there and the construction is failing. You said someone else was responsible for it last time. No, Madam Minister, you are responsible, as well as for many projects that have been suspended, are not finished for your term in two governments in different places. I ask you to overcome this relationship with us because of our request that you resign and accept this amendment, because he can only fix this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22278	Thank you. I don't know how someone in the future can be responsible. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22279	This agency business contract has been governed by the Law on Maritime and Internal Navigation, as has already been said several times. More than 20 members of that law refer to this contract, and this port agent, as a single word, is not mentioned in the law we are now discussing. Why should we put it now, especially since I explained the reasons two days ago and today? That's the shortest. As far as other matters are concerned, I repeat once again whether amendments to any political party in parliament are accepted do not depend on the good or bad mood of the promoter. That's what you're saying, I believe, really from your own experience. Maybe you as a political party did it that way, maybe you personally passed the laws, maybe you did it that way by passing the law, but we don't do it. Laws are passed for Serbian citizens, and it doesn't matter whether the DS suggested it or SNS, if they can speed up the law. That's how we acted, that's how we act. That goes for you, too. Remove everything that is personal from what is called the law, from what needs to be applied in the future. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22280	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22281	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, although I highly appreciate Ms Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Mrs Branka Karavidić's intensities to amend this proposed law with one fundamental amendment, I must suggest that this amendment be rejected as well. I join the Government of the Republic of Serbia in my opinion which calls for us to reject this amendment, with an explanation that reads – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the business is consequent and the notion of a port agent is subject to the regulation of the Law on Maritime and Internal Navigation, and will be regulated in more detail by a law that will regulate private legal matter in the field of navigation. So whoever carefully reads this argument can therefore understand that there is no space in this law to treat an term called a port agent, but, I repeat, I highly appreciate the intensity and I really support these amendments. I can't help but look back at the situation so that again in the lack of arguments, Žeželj's bridge was mentioned today and to comment on the minister's emotional state in words that she is angry. I ask you, how can we not be angry, not just the minister, but all of us here, when the previous speaker, five minutes, maybe more, spends on everything that's not the subject of this law, so he talks and evaluates some things that are not the subject of this law? I really think we should try to bring this debate to an end today because of the day of mourning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22282	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22283	I've always felt very inappropriate when we talk about serious things about emotions and what might mean for citizens it is something the opposition doesn't respect and what the opposition wants to use even though today is, for example, a day of mourning. So if today is mourning day, and you think we shouldn't talk about this law and how to fix it, maybe we shouldn't have had a session. But nothing I said was relevant, nor was it out of the bill and out of context. Therefore, the Law and amendments to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters cannot be observed outside these waterways, and our most important waterway is the Danube, and the Danube navigation is limited due to the height of the gauze in Novi Sad, due to the unfinished Željev Bridge. I cannot overlook the fact that from Novi Sad, Vojvodina, Serbia and EU citizens, I am affected by the fact that this bridge is not yet finished, and I cannot help but ask in this context, I would be irresponsible. Anyone who tries to draw attention to any other topic does not work in the interest of the citizens. So we haven't talked about any pay cuts, or any other things that are past this law, we're talking specifically about this law, and I've tried to support my colleagues. The minister gave an explanation why she didn't accept this, and I think she was wrong. Of course, I believe that there is a link on which the amendment comes and I believe that sometimes even some amendments that have been submitted by the opposition are transformed into amendment committees and accepted, but we have nothing against it either. It is important for us citizens to benefit from our efforts here all together, and the Government if it is cooperative and MPs, to pass a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22284	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. No one here said we shouldn't discuss the law, it was just a comment that Mr. Babic appreciates that today is a day of mourning and does not respond to the provocations of some MPs. Also, you were talking about emotions, some of the ministers' moves when they weren't ministers, and you're talking about a bridge that's not the subject of this amendment. Mr. Veselinović, you see that everything you have now objected to to others is just being done by you. Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22285	Very briefly, I'll do something again, and maybe I'll explain something. So no laws are passed in relation to personality. Try to get out of that box where you've passed the laws before. So, you brought them from personality to political parties, compared to your political friends, however, and then you accepted and passed laws and rules even certain so-called so-called. holes in the law, so many things can be done. So, gentlemen, it's no longer done. When the law is proposed, it is not proposed to adopt the amendment, for example, positions or opposition afterwards. That's exactly what I'm thinking. Compared to all the amendments and amendments to the laws and to all the laws where I was a proposing, either in the previous term or in this one, there were many amendments, both opposition and positional ones that we adopted, precisely because we wanted simply to make these laws even better for the citizens of Serbia and that applies to everything. I'm sorry, but in these three amendments and additions to the law, you simply didn't fit all the conventions and standards, simply, you may not have looked at the law in quality. I'm not getting into that. But this time your amendments are not accepted. It's not because they came from you, I really like to listen to all your proposals, and the amendments and the suggestions and the statements of your party, it's great to me and it's just a sign to me how well this government actually works. So this is about how laws are passed today in parliament, that is, how the government proposes laws. I repeat, not according to personality, not according to the party, but according to what is good for the citizens of Serbia. Second of all, what does the Iron Bridge have to do with sailing? It doesn't matter. The sailing takes place uninterrupted, and every bridge, and before it was built and when built, it is made according to standards. Therefore, do not worry about sailing, if you have tried in an indirect way to bind the issue of the Iron Bridge and this law. And about who is responsible, I repeat to you who is responsible and I will repeat once again – yes, your president, now the party, is very responsible and the policy you have led because of the current state of the Želje Bridge. But I'm also telling you that the Iron Bridge is going to be finished, and that's how it's supposed to be done. It will be completed by this government, and right now, if we are to look at the political party, which is now headed by the government, which is the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22286	I thank Vice President Mihajlović. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22287	First of all, it is false, Madam Minister, that the president of the Social Democratic Party Boris Tadic has anything to do with suspending the work on the Želje Bridge, because he has not been president for two and a half or three years, and the works have been suspended during your government and you are personally responsible for it. That's another reason why we think you should resign. On the other hand, when it comes to personal relations with individual political parties, I believe that you had, and in that sense, Mr. Becic, I was talking about a personal relationship, not about emotions, after our request for the replacement of Madam Minister, when she stopped accepting our amendments, precisely because they came from a parliamentary group or a party that, in some ways, threatened her career. And I think that the interest of the citizens, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is more important than your career and that in that sense you need to rise from this day-to-day political event. You'll either resign or you won't resign. You said this government is doing great. I'm uncomfortable, and I'm not going to talk about how bad this government is, because I'm just so uncomfortable that I can't even talk about it. In that sense, I urge you once again to accept this amendment and to sort of overcome this personal relationship that you are apparently having.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22288	The word has a vice president, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22289	You're absolutely right, I'll rise above this and I'll tell you that your statements, I practically didn't see them, for resignation, this is the first time I've heard of them, but you know who's putting the government together. The government is composed of the political party that has won the highest confidence of citizens, which is the Serbian Progressive Party, and in that sense, it is about the threat of careers. And as for what and how the government is doing, I would say that your president is very often offered to the government, one way or another, and then denied. He's saying he's been invited to the government, so, no, he's not invited to be a member of the government, but I can see that you're offering yourself, so now I don't know if it's any difference between what you think the government is doing wrong, and on the other hand, you'd be very happy to be part of that government. I don't understand politics, but I respect it. It's your policy and it's perfectly fine. Let's get back to the law. I would ask you to understand that in this sense the amendment of your political parties is not accepted because they are clear explanations, and you have received even explanations why they are not accepted. Not because you belong to that political party, on the contrary, but because they were not in line with the policy of these three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22290	Thank you, Dr. Mihajlović. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22291	I think we can put an end to this debate here. So, the Social Democratic Party is the only opposition party in this country. We're not even in the province government, and we could be, we're not in the Republic government, and we could be, because we're being offered. The Social Democratic Party has never offered itself. That's what you've been pinning for. Sometimes some opposition parties, because they wanted to introduce the Social Democratic Party to be part of the government. Governments like this - never. So, this kind of government never. We hope that the time will come, that you will be part of this country's political history and that some government will come to draw this country out, and especially the citizens from the situation in which they are today, to live worse than they have lived in the last 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22292	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, member of the 9th Law, and the Government proposed the following text: "In accordance with the strategy set out in Article 8 of this Law, an action plan for implementing established water traffic development priorities, which contains concrete activities, with deadlines, tasks, bodies and organisations responsible for implementing the Strategy, is adopted. The action plan set out in Article 1 adopts the Government on a proposal from the ministry." What we suggested is like this. Article 9 is amended as follows: ‘In accordance with the strategy set out in Article 8 of this Act, an action plan is adopted for the implementation of the established strategic objectives and priorities of the development of water transport containing concrete measures and activities to meet the objectives and priorities set, time limits for the implementation of the measures, activities and targets set, bodies and organisations responsible for the implementation of the Strategy and the Action Plan, indicators for the assessment of the objectives set and the financial resources and incentives for each of the measures and activities identified, i.e. for each of the objectives and priorities identified. The action plan referred to in Article 1 shall be adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the Strategy. Control of implementation under Article 8 and of the Action Plan shall be carried out by the Government. The strategy referred to in Article 8. Action plan and annual reports on the monitoring of the implementation of the Strategy and the Action Plan are published on the official website of the Government and the Ministry of Traffic Affairs." We think that this amendment, which we have proposed, is that this matter, which works for Article 9, is much clearer and more high-quality, and we think that you, Madam Minister, should have accepted this amendment. You explained that the amendment is rejected because supplement 9 has been proposed The draft law subject to the regulation of the Water Traffic Development Strategy already governed by the said document. I don't think he's burned to be in this law. Speaking of the Strategy and the Action Plan for the Development of Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, I remind you that you have not answered us – whether the project Dunav – Morava – Vardar – Aegean Sea will be implemented, because this is really a question that is of interest to the citizens of Niša. It's been discussed in your government's last meeting for a year, and that's one big project infrastructure that's supposed to be a motto for development of Nis and the environment. Please give us an answer so people know if it will be covered by the Strategy, the one that defines this law and the Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22294	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22295	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, member of the 12th Law regulates matter, the process of obtaining appropriate permits to carry out works on construction, reconstruction and adaptation of ports and hydrosystem facilities. We, as the SDPS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to this article with a desire to bring this law's terminology into line and, in the meantime, the Law on Planning and Construction. An identical, or similar amendment to the same member was submitted by counterpart Katarina Rakic. Since we have come to the attention of the Ministry's representatives that they fully support this remark and agree with us that it is necessary to agree these two laws, it was necessary to find a solution to how these two amendments that practically treat the same matter agree, where Parliamentarian Katarina Rakic and our MP group decided to withdraw their amendment, and on the Committee of Representatives, we have formulated an amendment that regulates this matter and in the spirit of what Ambassador Rakic suggested and in the spirit of what we have proposed as a parliamentary group. In that regard, the amendment to Article 12 has also been formulated. We unanimously voted on the committee, accepted it, and the ministry also demonstrated its willingness to become an integral part of the law, and in that sense I would like to express my satisfaction that what we have planned, which is that these two laws are mutually agreed, will have as outcome the acceptance of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22296	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, a comment and an important addition, or a note from the board to the current discussion of a colleague, certainly all the motives that have been presented are absolutely standing. Support by the motionor, or members of the board, is very clear, but since we have just received from the professional service a comment that there is one technical error in the first position at the end of the closing sentence, that the word "Agency" should be replaced by the word "Directive". I am informing the ministry's representatives, with another request that we get a positive opinion on such a solution. I'm informing you that we've just scheduled a board session to correct this technical error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22298	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The ministry representatives have just said so, so I hope with the correction that in the day of voting this amendment will be supported. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Minister, a respected colleague and colleague, Article 15 refers to Article 39a of the Law and says: diving can be carried out on the waterway to perform the work of preparing, or performing the work, on the basis of the consent of the port captain. Then, a request for approval under Article 1(1) shall be made by the organiser to submit to the port captain no later than 15 days before the start of the diving operation. The diving organizer is responsible for the safety of divers. The port captain's duty is to inform the participants of the diving performance no later than eight days before their start. We have given the amendment to add a new position that it says - the port captainship is due no later than the day before the start of the dive from Article 1 of this article's position to take all necessary measures in accordance with the law which ensures that navigation takes place so as not to endanger the safety of divers and sailing participants. We have given an explanation that members of the 15th Proposers, i.e. The minister suggests adding a new member of 39 to arrange for diving operations to be carried out, carried out, and based on the approval of the port captainship. This article determines the responsibility of the diving organizer for the safety of divers, as well as the duty of the port captain to inform the participants of the diving performance. We believe it is necessary to extend the duty of port captainship in this case. It is not possible to perform the diving without the permission of the port captain, which means that the port captainate is fully aware of all the details of such an undertaking. It should be borne in mind that Article 170 of the Law provides that the port captainia may, for the safety of navigation, by order to prohibit, or restrict navigation and determine specific conditions of navigation in order to protect human lives, property, environment, safety of waterway construction facilities and others. In addition, the same member has been found to be required to act in accordance with these orders. As seen in article 170, it is intended as a discretionary right for the port captain to issue special orders. We believe that in the case of diving operations, it is necessary to establish as the duty of the port captain to take measures to which he has the right under the law to protect divers and sailing and that it is not enough to just inform the participants of the diving performance, and therefore I think that the Minister should accept this proposal, i.e. Amendment to Article 39a, because we think that this will make it more clear what are the obligations of the port captains and what are their responsibilities. I remind you that you have not yet answered my questions from the principle debate and which I have asked before – will the waterway of the Danube-Morava-Wardar-Egey Sea be built? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22300	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 63 is amended and it is said that Article 206 is amended and read – a port management agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) is set up to carry out the tasks set out in this law. The agency's headquarters is in Belgrade. The Agency's bodies are the board of directors and directors. The term of office of the Agency's authority shall take five years. The Agency staff shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing the work of state authorities and the position of civil servants and deputies unless otherwise specified by this law. We've given an explanation. Given that the proposing has significantly changed the Agency's competence, not only in a member who determines the work of the Agency but in new members whose introduction it proposes, the Agency can no longer be considered a public agency within the meaning of the provisions of the Public Agency Act, i.e. The tasks given to it are no longer regulatory and developmental affairs, but are to a greater extent State administration's tasks. It is the agency that decides on port concessions, concludes concession contracts, conducts operations that are a couple of excellencies of the public administration's affairs, issue of operating port permits, determines the level of concession fee, maintains the records of port operators, etc., where the ZUP is applied accordingly in its work. Further provisions of the proposal found that it is the agency to which the port operator is transferred the right to use on catastral parcels, etc. Given this, it is clear that the essence of the agency is completely changing and that it becomes a practical body of state administration, i.e. can no longer be treated as a public agency. It is necessary, in other words, to regulate the questions of the body of appointment of mandates on the authority of the Agency and other similar issues. We have proposed such amendments, which you have refused, especially with regard to the composition and methods of decision-making and selection of the board of directors. It is unacceptable for agencies with this many powers and influences to remain under the Public Agency Act, which does not provide sufficient transparency regarding the appointment of authorities. If it continues to apply the Law on Public Agencys to the work of the agency, which has extremely broad and significant powers, the government will have an inadequate impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22302	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 71 of the amendment, with correction, the MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 71st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22303	Thank you. Article 73, and as regards a member of Law 216a, we have given an amendment that says: In Article 76, paragraph 4, after saying, "with the termination of the right of office of construction", the words "in the cases established by this Member" are added, and in paragraph 5, after saying, "after the expiry of the period on which the right of service of citizens is established", the words "and within which no construction has been carried out". We have given reason to suggest, by amendment, that we specify the position of 4 and 5 with regard to the termination of the right of service and the transfer of property rights to the port infrastructure facilities from the port operator to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22304	Thank you. The 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic - Korac to Article 87. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MP Branko Karavidic submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have amended Article 227ð in the second part, meaning no position 1 which is correct and which sets out criteria on which the Agency is based on the choice of most favourable offer, these are the economic most favourable offers from the point of view of the Agency, the criteria relating to the subject of the concession and here further explains what all the parameters which determine this, however, in the second view we need to change the position of the 2nd of this article. We have stated, so we have amended that part of this article and it is said: “In the selection process of the most favourable offer, the Agency lists in the competitive documentation all the elements of the criteria for selecting an offer that it foresees in relation to the importance it gives them by setting a set of maximum values in the appropriate range, or, if that is not possible for justified reasons, by the importance of the most important to the less important.” Otherwise, the amendment and addition of the law at point 2) states that the most offered concession fee is determined, where all of this is later explained. We have received an explanation that the amendment is not accepted, because the issue is the criteria for selecting the most favourable offer subject to the regulation of the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions. Only certain specificities of port concessions, such as the proposed amount of port taxis towards end-users, quality in the provision of port services, i.e. the construction of port buildings and facilities, results achieved in the loading or other port of operation, the private partner in the last three accounting years from the date of initiation of the concession procedure. We believe that this point 2) should be changed in this article as we have given it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22306	Thank you. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22307	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. A new article shall be added to Article 87. 227a – 227j, in Article 227g, point 5 is deleted. Explanation. Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union lays down that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union’). We find this solution unacceptable for a number of reasons. In fact, the contract is a legal business that implies the consent of the parties to the will. Therefore, the Contracting Parties agree on the elements of the contract. The concession fee is not, in particular, its height or potential change cannot be the subject of the contract, i.e. the parties cannot change the concession fee by their will and for the following reasons. The fees represent, by their nature, the source of public revenue, and are thus determined by the state by its acts. In the case of a concession fee, it is determined by this law, i.e. the elements on which its height is determined are determined by this law and there is no possibility of a contractual change in that fee anywhere. In addition, the legislator did not specify even under any circumstances, under which circumstances it would be possible to change this fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22308	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22309	Thank you. Article 87, which adds new members of 277a-277j, points 2 and 2 of Article 2 is amended as follows: "The Agency shall submit to the Government a mid-term plan set out in Article 1 of this Article with clearly demonstrated the estimated economic effects of implementing the planned concession contracts". The proposed Article 277b after Article 3 shall add a new section 4 and 5, which shall read: The Agency shall submit an annual report to the Government on the implementation of the medium-term plan referred to in Article 1 and the annual plan referred to in Article 3. The Agency shall publish on its official website the medium-term plan referred to in Article 1, the annual plan referred to in Article 3 and the annual report referred to in Article 4. In the proposed Article 277b of the current section of 5-9 we propose to delete and give an explanation: Article 87 proposes, among other things, the introduction and new Article 277b which regulates the issue of the adoption of a medium-term, three-year port concession plan and an annual port concession plan as an exception to the rules to initiate the prescribed procedure for the granting of port concessions. Since the port concession procedure is initiated if the value of the concession is higher than EUR 5186,000, this value is granted, it is clear that the legal transactions are of high value. In view of this, we believe it is necessary to establish a higher degree of control in work, and we have proposed, by amendment, that the Agency delivers a mandatory plan to the Government of the medium-term port concessions, as opposed to the proposing that the Agency does so only when the competent ministries so request. In addition, we also envisioned the obligation to report annually to the government on the implementation of the plan. In this way, it is better to see whether the Agency's plans were realistic, to monitor their implementation and to create conditions for better and more precise, short-term projection and better possible modification of short-term plans. In addition, we have predicted that these plans, as well as the reports, are being published on the Agency's website, making the whole port concession procedure very transparent. The amendment provides for eradicating positions from five to nine, which provide for an exception to the rule that port concessions are granted under the procedure laid down in this law. Article 5 provides that ‘exceptionally, the Agency may initiate the procedure for granting the port concession provided for in Article 277 of this Act, on a proposal from the interested party for the realization of a specific port concession, which it provides to the Agency a letter of intent, provided that the proposal does not concern the granting of a concession for the provision of port services, or concessions for the construction of port buildings and facilities for which the award of a concession contract or a public invitation has been opened’. The remaining views are related to this attitude. Given the value of port concessions, any exception to the rules can be very dangerous, and especially when it is not sufficiently and closely set, which, as shown in Section 5, was not the case. I think you should accept this amendment, because I find it inadmissible that the Agency can give a concession without publishing a public call. This means that each of the bidders can, before the Agency can make a public call, use that discretionary right and get a concession in a direct contract. I think this is necessary for the Minister to accept on behalf of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22310	Thank you. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22311	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like you or the chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to give me some clarifications on the rejection of this amendment. Namely, an amendment was accepted to my esteemed colleague Katarina Rakic, 90th. In the light of why my amendment is rejected, you state that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that an amendment to Article 90 has already been accepted. A bill that also regulates the matter in question in a similar way. It doesn't sort in a similar way. The amendments in their text are identical. I don't know if a practice is being introduced here, but when several MPs submit amendments to the same text, or if all amendments of MPs from whatever parliamentary groups have come or are not accepted. It has been a practice of parliament so far, and so it is in the future. There is the same solution when it comes to the proposal for a sea navigation law. So you refused the same amendments, identical in the text. I would like you to explain to me what the reason is, because so far in the same text we have always adopted, or all of them are adopted, however many MPs come or all of them refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22312	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22313	You're absolutely right, not in a similar way, but in the same way you should be standing in an explanation. It's completely true everything you said. I agree. I don't know why they wrote it like that. We're going to ask that even in the light of this change, no matter what we do today, we're going to end this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-12-0.u22314	Thank you. The 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – PEDLOGRAPH OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAW ON COUNTRY AND THE PUBLICATION OF PRAYER You have received an amendment submitted by MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavicevic on the draft of the law. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the search of the single amendment, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday 12 February 2015, starting at 12.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic, for participating in today's session. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON ASSESSMENT OF ASSESSMENTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – six abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the total of 165 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by MP Katarina Rakic to members: 7, 23 and 26, as well as MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic to members: 3, 4, 9, 12, 17 and 18. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 160 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 26, the amendment was filed, with a correction, by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – six abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the total of the 188 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, against – six abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the total of the 188 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by MP Katarina Rakic to members: 7, 13, 23, 29, 65, 75, 80, 83, 90, 91, 93 and 114. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 179 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 180 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 15th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoje Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 71 by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 188 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoje Bradic submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 76th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoje Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac to Article 87. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 182 of the total presence of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 90th Amendment were submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181 against – seven abstentions – there are no votes, four of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Statehood and PUBLICATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, and since the only amendment submitted has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belonging and entering a vessel, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 180, against – four, abstentions – there is no, there was no vote by seven of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Statehood and the registration of vessels. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
