ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 125 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40330	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, and it is said - is the establishment of a commission to identify victims killed abroad during the communist rule in our country from 1945 to 1990? Researchers, historians, journalists found that in this period, most of them, in Western European countries and overseas, 20 Serbian political immigrants were killed, and none of these murders have been illuminated so far, nor have executioners and employers been processed. It is about prominent members of Serbian political emigration, mainly about writers, publicists, journalists, the main and responsible editors of the paper. They had nothing to do with terrorist actions and were involved in scientific, artistic and literary work. Some of them were in years, and the only reason for their murders was because they advocated a democratic arrangement in Yugoslavia, a multiparty system, to respect human rights against the unilateral dictatorship that existed in our country at the time. Generally, the Yugoslav secret police responsible for their murders, so-called The second administration, which was tasked with liquidating prominent members of Serbian political immigrant organisations in offensive actions and found that they were mainly killed in the period from 1954 to 1986. In Croatia, I must say, on the basis of the 1991 law on the identification of war and war victims of World War II, a Commission was formed to identify victims of Croatian political emigration that were liquidated abroad during that period. They came to the conclusion that 68 members of Croatian emigration were killed and it is certain that the majority of such people were in Croatian emigration, but immediately after them were members of Serbian emigration, then Albanian and Muslim. Unfortunately, such a law has not been passed in our country. We from the SPO plead for the adoption of a similar law in both our country and the formation of an appropriate commission to address the circumstances under which these people were killed, who were the employers, who were the motives, who were the helpers. Then, to determine the state of the graves of these people, to regulate their tombs and, where appropriate, to transfer the remains of death to Serbia and to the decent burial of these people who have fought only for democratic transformation, peaceful, non-violent means in our country, and it is doubtless that they have been liquidated by or members of the Yugoslav secret police, or the Service of State Security or mainly criminals, people on the other side of the law, who have been engaged since then to carry out these unholy tasks against people who had no guilt, except that they did not agree with Broz's tax that ruled Yugoslavia for several decades. So, I would just like to briefly remind you that Lieutenant Colonel of the Yugoslav Army in the country of Sinisa Ocokoljić was kidnapped in Austria in 1954, then secretly transferred to our country and without a court, that Ratko Obradovic was killed in Munich in 1967, as editor of an anti-communist newspaper...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40331	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40332	... that two years later in Paris, Andrija Loncaric, etc., Petar Valic, editor of the "Vaskrs Serbia" list, was killed until Borvoj Matic, who was 72 years old and who was found dead in Chicago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40333	Time. Thank you. Thank you, buddy. The word is Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40334	Thank you. Dear Presidents, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, ask for an explanation from the Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Minister of Justice, Minister of European Integration, head of Serbia's negotiating team in the EU and president of the Working Party Action Plan for Minorities - why and with what goal does the Government, through its Working Group, refuse to include problems and proposals from Bosniak legitimate representatives in the Working Group? I ask – is the Government even planning to implement the correction of the Action Plan and respect the suggestions proposed by legitimate minority representatives from the beginning in the Working Group? I would like to remind you that the Bosniak National Council, as the most representative body of the Bosniak people in Serbia, since the establishment of the Working Group on 7 April this year, has actively and constructively participated in the work of the National Minorities Action Plan. Starting with the fact that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are responsible for the position, status and degree of attainment of minority rights, we believe that making a quality Action Plan is our country's interest to adequately resolve the status and position of minorities. However, government representatives in the Working Group have proved to ignore the problems of Bosniaks and any proposal from Bosniak legitimate representatives, even refusing to record problems and proposals for resolving them. It is evident that there is no desire for a government representative in the Working Group to come up with a solution that will ensure for Bosniaks the safety, protection and preservation of national identity, the achievement and improvement of individual and collective rights, economic development, as well as the resolution of any other issues that have been burdened by Bosniaks for years, which are vitally important. I'd like to ask your attention while we talk about important issues. It must be borne in mind that Bosniaks are the people over whom the crime was committed, genocide in Srebrenica. A people who were exposed in Serbia in the 1990s to state terror with serious crimes that have not yet been enlightened, and their perpetrators have not been punished. The latest report marked Bosniaks as a people under threat. Bosniaks are a nation that does not have its own national state that could be busy resolving their status. I recall that in the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress, it says that Sandzak continues to have extremely high unemployment, poor infrastructure and insufficient representation of Bosniaks in state bodies and institutions with public authority. For these reasons, the legal and legitimate representatives of the Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia cannot and will not accept the formal participation and status of a silent observer in the working group for the development of the Action Plan for Minorities. That is why on November 23rd this year, a representative of the Bosniak National Council left work in this body. For such reasons, the minority SDA Sandzak parliamentary group composed of legitimate representatives of Albanians and Bosniaks Sandzak left the work of the Assembly Committee on Minorities on 16 January this year. I ask, will the government of the Republic of Serbia, through your representatives in the working group, appreciate the fact of importance for Bosniaks, put you in action plan, and thus allow us to get a serious and quality action plan for minorities who would have legitimacy? Why has the Working Group for the Development of an Action Plan for Minorities so far not included MPs selected on minority lists who, together with national councils, bear the highest legitimacy?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40335	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40336	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on my personal behalf and on behalf of the MPs' club, I ask the MP's question to Mr Vujovic, and the interest on the property tax and on the other original incomes of local self-government. Why am I asking this parliamentary question? It's the end of the year, all the local self-governments that have been administering since a few years ago with the collection of these revenues, so that's property tax, communal taxes from earlier years of compensation for city building land, are facing a very difficult charge problem. Last year, we had a major accident in Serbia. People don't have money, they're huge debts. What's going on? Some local self-governments, and the minister must know, make decisions in their local parliaments where they make decisions on the write-off of interest on debts, primarily on property taxes. To be clear, absolutely respected colleagues, I advocate that interest be written off, but we come to one problem where this kind of thing was done in 2011 when the finance minister was Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and it was then made possible for all citizens, means, both physically and legally, that companies and entrepreneurs should sign the reprogramme agreements then and if these agreements are respected to write them off interest. One part of the Serbian citizens who could have done so at the time, and one part did not, but here at the end of 2015 we see that these debts are huge and that they cross a billion dinars. Please, Minister of Finance, certain local self-governments have sent a memo to both the Ministry and the State Audit, to see what we do, because in Serbia we have a completely different situation. Some municipalities, such as Novi Pazar, Nis, Arangelovac, have already made these decisions and are already applying these decisions. Other municipalities are now in major problems that have not been made by such decisions because, meanwhile, they have had state audit controls which believe that the implementation of such a decision by the president of municipalities and the head of local tax administrations is a criminal offence. Please, all of us, let's see, and we can't solve this without the Ministry of Finance what we do in this situation. Me and a couple of fellow Members of the People's Parliament and through the Economic Cocuss that has been working recently in this House, we have sent a single initiative to enable all natural and legal persons who would sign an agreement with local tax administrations by the end of 2015 on debt reprogramme and to implement the agreement by the end of the fourth or fifth month 2016 to make them a write-off of interest. Once again, please, this is a very urgent matter and this must be resolved by the end of 2015 if we want to help all citizens living in municipalities across Serbia, and above all by legal persons. Let me once again point out that the debts at this point, at the beginning of December of the month, are enormous, that they are measured in billions of dinars and that on the one hand, whether certain cities are privileged by being too silently allowed to write off interest, and that no one is doing anything about it, and other cities and municipalities can't apply it because they have constant controls by either budgetary inspections or state audits. I have to remind the finance minister that I went through this goal from 2008 to 2012 when I was the only opposition representative of the municipality in Šumadia and that I understand the situation in local self-government and I call on all of us, as well as the Ministry of Finance to react urgently and that this matter is clearly defined. My concrete proposal is to allow anyone who wants to pay the principal immediately or within a period of no more than six months to get their interest write-offs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40337	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40338	I thank the president. My question today is to the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications and the Ministry of Culture, although I would like the Ministry to make an announcement on this matter. The theme of my question is hamam in Novopazarska Banja near Novi Pazar. It's a 15th-century facility. It is an object that has been declared culturally well-being and is protected by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. What's going on with this object that's of paramount importance to all of us? Also, I note that this facility is located in the so-called so-called area. buffer zone or zone of protection in UNESCO's cultural heritage, because it is close to the monastery of Sopocans and the entire complex that is protected by UNESCO. So, what's going on with that spa, with that hammam. In 2009, the new market company Lipa, a tourist company that took care of this facility, was privatized, but the hamam itself remained slow and the dispute was in some way frozen, we could not get information from anyone about it, and in 2010 suddenly and nothing was caused, the roof of the spa was destroyed. Immediately afterwards, people from the Islamic community in Serbia, under the leadership of Muamer Zukorlic, usurped, declared the Novopazar Banje a so-called vacuum "Haj Hurem" and set up physical security. To this day, neither the police nor anyone could approach this cultural and historical monument, but I note that it is not just a cultural and historical monument, but a living hama which has been used for years by thousands of people, who have been available to the poorest citizens and who have been a haven for everyone, and not only for the poor, but also for the people who have had a bone-muscular disease, because it is an extremely healing spa. I would like to point out once again that it was a hammam that had been constantly working for centuries before it became a hammam, it was also a Roman term. Since 2010, the court has made a decision in favour of the majority owner of Lipa to return Hamam to them, however, until today, this has not happened because the security of Muamer Zukorlic has prevented the return of the facility. In the spring of this year, around April 20th, there was a restaurant and boarding house that were later built outside the spa itself, in front of the spa, because they began to destroy the security of Muamer Zukorlic and then the Institute for the Protection of Monuments and Director Mirjana Andric said that the Islamic community in Serbia has neither the license nor the knowledge of such an intervention. So I ask these two ministries to answer the question – what is going on with this facility? I don't think anyone has the right to declare under a false name some kind of property. It is the property of all of us who live in Novi Pazar, in the area, but not only in Novi Pazar, it is culturally good of great importance and that it is the property of all of us who live in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40339	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40340	Thank you, Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, respected Nishlia, here I am today to ask a parliamentary question in front of my parliamentary group, and I will repeat the same question, this is the fourth time. Because I get unmistakable answers from the government and certain ministries, in fact I get answers that convince my question. Well, in order for me to be consistent, I will repeat the question with the hope that someone in the government or someone in some ministry, or the Prime Minister, will take seriously what I ask on behalf of the citizens of Nis and give a meaningful condescending answer. So the first question is, when will the rail line be moved from downtown? I will remind you of respected colleagues that the city of Nis is located on Corridor E-10 both by rail and road and that the railway, which was once on the city's periphery is now passing through the city center, dividing it into two parts, making life in the town of Nis very difficult, communication between the part on the left and right of the railway. It endangers people's lives because they're not rare car accidents. I note that there are dozens of crossings in the town of Nis across the Nis-Sofia railway line. In 2010, a World Bank loan amounted to ninem euros. One and a half million euros were given for a feasibility study. The city of Nis is until 2012, which is what the former government did with the planning documents, i.e. a general urban plan that provides for a new tranche, a shift of the railway, a detailed regulation plan, a new track track and a complete geodesy of the new route. The existing route is projected in this plan as a route of light rail transport. The planning documents should have been further done to access the physical movement of the track idea project, the main project, the general project and to complete the expropriation of the remaining part of the route that was not done by 2010. What I've asked many times, here I repeat. Is the loan with the World Bank completed? Only one and a half million euros were withdrawn from a possible nine million, or was it destroyed, when will the procedure of moving the railway from the centre of Nis continue? What's interesting is that during this government, the former railway director came to Nis with the idea of temporarily electrifying the route through the city. The citizens of Nis repeatedly and the positions and opposition, unanimously refused to move the railroad, demanding, or to stay on the track unanimously, demanding the removal of the railway from the city centre. What I received in response, from Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, is a persuasion of what I said, and this persuasion was signed by the subject processor Ivana Perkunic, a person who controls Mirjana Trifunović and a person who approves Miodrag Poledica and Milana Rakic. I'm asking Mrs. Minister and the ladies and gentlemen I've led to really respond and say if this railroad is going to be temporarily electrified, or if it's going to be moved, and if it's going to be moved, when? It's a question that the citizens of Nisa are asking. The second question is to the Prime Minister and refers to the economic development of the town of Nis, because we are witnessing that in Nis for the last four or three years, only Johnson Electronics has been opened. I remind you that this is a business arrangement that was concluded in 2010, and was implemented in the middle of this year, when the factory was officially opened, with 300 seats. What is interesting, that a few days ago, more than a week ago, the Prime Minister said that 3,000 jobs at Johnson Electronics would be opened in Nis in the coming period. Dear gentlemen, 38% of the people in Nis City do not work, 40,000 are working men and they do not work. You have taken the obligation to move the city of Nis forward, and during that time while you are in power, the town of Nis has 370 companies less and 201 private shops are closed. It is the effects of your efforts and the development of the city of Nis, so I ask the government and the Prime Minister what is the plan for development, the south and southeast of Serbia and the city of Nis and when it will begin to be realized. Is it in this term or in the next term?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40341	The word is Alexander Jovicic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40342	Thank you, Chairman. At first, if we can only hear ourselves and the MPs can then continue to talk in some pause, because I think these are important topics and these questions that I'm asking, which come from the opposition, and also from the majority's representatives, that they are really important and that we need to hear it. You are aware of all the facts that Serbia is in the process of economic reforms, that Serbia today has a threefold less deficit than it had in previous years, that Serbia is doing everything it can and everything that is in its power to lead Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to attract investments, to open new jobs, to create conditions that people want to invest in Serbia, to build more highways than ever in the history of our country, that everything that is promised is fulfilled and that there are deadlines and passing times that are respected, that growth in economic growth is beyond what the IMF and the World Bank and all relevant factors in the economic sector, extremely beyond our borders, and these are the results. You are aware of the fact that we have had a historic visit from our government in China and that the projects that will be and how important to our country have been agreed, and you are aware that next week, more precisely this week, the OSCE Ministerial Conference in Belgrade, that we are opening chapters in December, and that is what is important for Serbia. I ask the question when you look at these results and when you see where the country is today, who these people are, who are these organisations or any media or extreme forces that want to disrupt stability and destabilise our country, the moment we make good results for our country, when Serbia goes forward and when we finally try to step out of that mud that we were in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2011 and 2012. That's the key question. I also have a question for the defence minister, because I really think it's important that with one great seriousness we turn to this problem, which is the security of the Prime Minister of our country. We are aware that many are bothered, above all, because corruption and crime have begun to root out, continue to fight against these greatest monsters for our economy and for our country, which has made the best possible image of our country throughout the world in both the East and the West, and who are these people who have a problem with Serbia moving forward? Is the safety of our prime minister compromised, because if it is, to what level it is compromised, and I think the citizens should know. Fifty per cent of our citizens support the government and prime minister's policy. They are concerned about the security of our prime minister, because as an MP, I am visiting all of Serbia and, of course, the municipalities and in Belgrade, and that is the key issue. We will not allow anyone in our country to destabilise our country or bring panic and shelter. So I ask all the institutions in our country to pay attention, to react in time, never to let things happen to us from the past, because Serbia finally steps forward, has prosperity and I think that in the next period and in 2016 and 2017, in the years to come, we can expect more growth in our country and a better standard of our citizens. Remember one thing, we will stand up to anyone, with all political means and with democracy, who wants to destroy such a Serbia and bring it back to the years we saw both in 2007 and 2008 when you were the one who ruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40343	Thank you. The call of this session to be delivered to you contains a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, we move on to a decision on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, supplementing the agenda and proposals for bringing the debate together. National MP Janko Veselinovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine that the funds of the Republic Fund, pension disability insurance of PIO were spent in the last two and a half decades, began from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2015 and were abuses in the use of the funds of this fund and their non-intentional spending. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Police Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Trade Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borisav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borisav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Rehabilitation Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borisav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a law on freedom of fear. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 143 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Slobodan Homen proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Jovanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40344	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed one brief amendment, six members of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. It is a law adopted by the National Assembly in 2011 and concerns the protection of citizens primarily from the will of banks and from contracts that can be harmful, often and greenish. However, the proposal adopted in 2011 did not have a complete effect and we today have frantic bank relations towards citizens, and then small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore in the economy, because they are customers with the least possibility of negotiating in their position and protecting themselves. One of these members shall treat the maximum legal interest rate and that maximum interest rate may be one percentage lower than the reference rate prescribed by the State. The second member treats the maximum interest rate for residential loans. It is quite amazing that although the National Bank has been reducing the reference rate for the past few months, the interest on loans remains too high and the loans remain too high for the citizens. What is evident is that banks across the back of citizens are trying to collect those funds they lost because of the uncharging loans they made during some previous period. Also, there are serious problems in the economy and the economy is not able to repay the loans. Therefore, an increase in the number of non-payment loans of 5% compared to the previous year, and this has nothing to do with any previous years, these are the latest data. When the Minister of Economy says that someone else is guilty, it's not, it's the current state and that's what we're talking about. That's what's wrong with Serbia. There is no development policy. That's why we were in recession two years in a row. The only thing growing in Serbia is the profits of banks and it certainly has to be stopped. What's also a frantic thing is a commission on ATMs, first of all, banks that aren't client parent banks. When a client goes to an ATM of another bank, he gets charged a fee that's enormous. The minimum fee is between 150 and 200 dinars, even. If he raises 1,000 dinars, he'll pay interest from 15 to 20% because he raised money on another bank's ATM.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40345	Thank you. You're three minutes out. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of the 160 MPs present. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Please, President, establish the quorum. So we have to determine the quorum. We'll do it again. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that by applying the electronic system, 111 MPs are present in the O.R. We're taking a ten-minute break. We'll continue in ten minutes when we have a quorum. I'll see you at 11:00. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Please, let us first determine the quorum before we continue to work. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 137 MPs present in the hall. We must repeat the vote on Ivan Jovanovic's proposal, which is to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be filled in to the points - Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I see one satisfaction with the MPs and all MPs when it comes to the proposal of our National MPs of the New Party to include our proposal for the completion of the Law on Higher Education, Honored Gentlemen and Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, as well. We propose that in the Law on Higher Education in Article 4 which otherwise defines the principles of a higher education system in Serbia, a new point 1a is added, which provides for the introduction of a new principle, which we believe should find a place in the Law on Higher Education, which is the principle of academic integrity, gentlemen. We also suggest that Article 5a be added after Article 5a, which should state that academic honesty, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, is based on the independent creation of written works and strict respect for other people's copyrights. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the inclusion of this proposal in the agenda of this session of the National Assembly would be an adequate response to the flood of the plagiarisms that we have faced in the past two years, honourable Members of the People's Parliament. We believe that an institution such as the National Assembly of the Sea is appropriate to respond to the problem we face in our higher education system. I remind all MPs that plagiarism is the most severe violation of the principle of academic integrity, and that is why we must stress the importance and significance of this principle in our higher education system. I have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that for this authority in Serbia, a polygraph has been replaced by a court, and then I propose here to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, above all by the SNS, that our proposal be interpreted as a proposal to place a plagiarographer in the Higher Education Act, honored gentlemen, so that we can measure whose words, whose sentences are and, if they are others, and that it is not stated, that it must follow the penalty for such action, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40348	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 148 of the 161 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point of the bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I promised to the MPs and Ministers Mihajlović, during the debate on the then draft law on planning and construction, at the end of 2014, since we assessed the bill very badly, that the bill was amended after only two weeks, that we called the law "a patch" from the law, that we would, as soon as possible, refer our new draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, respected gentlemen. We believe that this bill, which has been pending for months in the assembly procedure, which has not been responded by the MPs, which has not been responded by the resolution minister, deserves our attention, a kind of collegiation here, and that we finally open the debate, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on a comprehensive bill, a completely new one that we have prepared in the New Party. It is a law that is placed on 200 pages of text, which is contained in 81 members of the new Bill on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, and which, I think, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, would in a decent and appropriate way replace what the existing Law on Planning and Construction is. I will here, Madam President, Mrs Gojkovic, list only five points that would represent one kind of newspaper compared to the current state. Our proposal envisions the formation of a completely new Republic office for spatial and urban planning, for example, then we introduce a contact plan, as a phase in the design of the plan. Third point np. We are predicting an extended system of spatial plans, a spatial landscape plan. Fourth point, we're opening up the possibility of a civil proposal plan. Fifth point, we give authority to local self-government to bring the content of the plans closer. There are a lot of points on which I could talk about our bill on planning and regulating space and settlements, but the best thing would be, I think, if we were to vote here right now for this proposal to be included as one point in the seventh session, so this session, this regular session, so that we all hear in detail what ideas and suggestions are in our draft planning law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40350	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 148 of the total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40351	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance has been in place since 1 August 2014, and then, if you remember, respected colleagues, the previous finance minister was from your government, here in the Assembly has been elaborated and explained that there is extra money in the RFZO and that the money needs to be transferred to the pension section in order to disburse the republican budget for some 300m euros as much as 2% of the health contributions in 2014. Those 2% that were downloaded had the following consequences: the 2014 budget of the RFZO was 236 billion, after a decrease of 2%, from 12.3% to 10.3% for health insurance in 2015, the budget was projected to 215.7 billion. I am saying that this is about 20 billion more for the same extent of the rights and obligations of the RFO towards the treatment of Serbian citizens. There has been talk that all this will be complemented by the Republic budget and the Republic budget is scheduled for that purpose 300, i.e. 30 billion, equivalent to 300m euros, but the problem is that the reduction in the rate of contribution to 10.3% of the income from pre-reduction employees fell to 125.3 billion in 2015. So it is evident that there is a minimum of 30 billion missing from the RFO budget for the same amount of rights and obligations of the Republic Fund towards the treatment of Serbian citizens. I urge respected colleagues and colleagues to put this bill on the agenda again so that we can re-analyze and find a solution through a constructive conversation, because the reduction of money in the position of the Republic Health Insurance Fund can have serious implications for the treatment of Serbian citizens. With less money, we have less chance of treating Serbian citizens. I ask you colleagues to reconsider, you are voting for my proposal to return those 2% to the RFZO to allow Serbian citizens to be treated with quality and good treatment in the RFZO system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40352	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40353	On March 13th of this year, nearly 10 months ago, a rescue mission that was supposed to save the life of a child, ended tragically by the death of seven innocent people, following an oral order from the defence minister. Immediately after the tragedy, we asked the National Assembly to establish a committee of inquiry under the rules of equal participation of the Constitution and the law defining the position of the National Assembly over the executive authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of each minister. Given the fact that the Prime Minister immediately declared himself not to give up the defence minister and not to give the minister of health and that he knows who is guilty and who is not guilty, which is especially the mocking of the rule of law, our committee of inquiry, among other issues, for which there are no answers in the reports made by the military commission, should have been answered and answered two important questions. The first question - on whose and what information did the defence minister bring oral order in violation of protocol, in violation of co-ordination and decide to launch a rescue mission? Who tipped him off? Who told him it was necessary, that it was mandatory and that he should do it? The second question that stands without an answer has already been here for almost 10 months – who changed the flight plan? By whose orders? Will you do it by your own free will? How has the flight plan changed when it was already on its way back to Belgrade when the rescue mission was completed? What we received in public statements from the defence minister was an inadmissible statement that he was proud of the mission and would repeat it. If you want to know who is destroying the government's reputation, this minister is destroying the government's reputation. If you want to know what's not political or legal, what's inhuman, then it's a statement that he's proud of death by seven people no one will answer for. The fact that the National Assembly of the several times proposed survey committee refuses to declare this, speaks of one important thing that we are not aware of, if we consider it to be our power to abuse the institutions of the state, the resources of the state, the laws and the Constitution according to our will and will. It's a common shame. It's much less a pity than the fact that seven innocent people are no more due to irresponsible behavior, ignorance, arrogance, and excess self-esteem that always comes from lack of knowledge. I would ask you all to do together the state, the interests of the people we represent here and to vote for the establishment of this committee of inquiry and to bring in responsibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40354	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunitions. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40355	The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms and Ammunition concerns our idea which seems indisputable to me, at least after talking to fellow MPs at the moment when to vote, that all holders, users of firearms, therefore, guns, guns, and other firearms are subject to a given time-limit analysis of doctors, to determine whether they are capable of holding and using weapons. This applies primarily to those who have guns and guns, not to people who have hunting rifles, not to hunters who know how to handle weapons and who make sure that they are healthy or hunting members, not to those who carry arms under official duty. They're checking you out anyway. It refers to legitimate or illegal weapons, such as guns and guns that exist in many of our households. On the day marked by the fight against violence against women, a woman was killed with a gun that we didn't get the information on whether she was legal or not, but the perpetrator of this crime committed suicide. Beyond the limits of normal perception is the resistance to edit such an area, such as health is the physical and mental health of people who possess weapons in Serbia. If we want to talk about taking care of citizens, then these changes and additions to the Arms and Ammunition Act are one of the first things we should agree on. If you're a fan of unstable character, if you shake hands with every violence that's possible because you have a weapon, if we remember they're killing people, not killing guns, but if it doesn't bother us, then we won't vote for this law. The Democratic Party will because it considers it necessary to prevent victims and to prevent people of an unstable, unpredictable character from having firearms in their possession and using it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40356	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the total of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to identify the facts and circumstances in which the listening and publication of a transcript of the talks between Lydia Udovici "Continental Wind Serbia" and Bojan Pajtic, the president of the Provincial Government and the DS, given the fact that the alleged attempted corruption by JP "EMS" Director Nikola Petrovic was committed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40357	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues, we are witnessing that Serbia has recently become a country of unresolved affairs and every day we have more and more new affairs that unfortunately do not receive judicial epilogues. The issue today, the state of Serbia, is the state that has been declared through statements by ministers, which is the state of the coup. I remind you that even the President of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly said that he too has knowledge that someone is secretly, illegally listening to him. The Democratic Party believes that it is high time to establish a legal state and that if the executive bodies of the RS government and the government themselves are unable to make efforts and investigate who in Serbia is secretly listening to the RS president or prime minister of the province of Vojvodina, this should finally be done by the Survey Committee in the Serbian Parliament. This is a precedent. Unfortunately, all but including the head of the VBA today in Serbia are talking about someone who listens secretly and illegally to Serbian citizens and high-ranking officials. We had the opportunity to see that someone even tried at the "Krov Plaza" hotel, which later turned out to be untrue, secretly recording and listening to the RS Prime Minister, who we know is the most endangered citizen, who is currently being cared for by the entire Serbian Army, about his security. So, we believe that it is high time, since there are obviously no instruments of rule of law within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its agencies, even the judiciary, that it is high time in Parliament to form a Joint Committee that will come to the final knowledge of who in Serbia abuses the possibility of secret listening, who in Serbia listens to unauthorized high-ranking officials, from the President of the Republic to the Prime Minister of the Province, and I am sure that we will finally get to those who commit crime and corruption who are mentioned in the transcript of secret listening, where the Prime Minister of Vojvodina was listened. Dear fellow MPs, I see this subject is not interesting to you. Sooner or later you'll find it interesting. I'm telling you, this thing has to be solved immediately. This thing is escalating. RS President Tomislav Nikolic cried several times that he could not resolve this issue himself, ask for parliament's help, ask for citizens' help and we must today vote this Survey Committee in order to allow him to do his job in a good way. I understand those who are skeptical of this. I also understand those who think that the Survey Committee can't come to the truth, but I remind you, the Survey Committee would have most of the regime's parties, the Committee would have the opportunity to examine everything it wants. We believe this is the only route we can finally resolve at least one of the great affairs that has shaken Serbia in the last three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40358	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40359	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, I ask your attention, because this bill should make it impossible for violent people in the family who are legally armed, therefore, to have legal permits to hold arms, to carry out domestic violence with catastrophic consequences. Dear colleagues, this is not a law that touches one party in any way. This is a law that comes first and foremost to women in Serbia. According to the Home Secretary's report, we have 40% more domestic violence in the past three months. Someone's gonna say that because they trust the M.O.P. and report it. For whatever it is, people, we have daily domestic violence, we have violence from those people who are legally owned by the state to hold arms, firearms that carry out the most serious crime - the murder of their spouses. Please, this is the third or fourth time we have proposed these changes at one or two points, which will allow the domestic violence to make it impossible for the legitimate state of arms, firearms, to put it on the agenda today. I promise no one from the DS will discuss this law. No one's gonna answer the word. We will adopt it in one minute because it is the interest of all women in Serbia. Gentlemen, I cry and appeal and ask you to bear in mind that in just three months, 40% more violent people are registered in the family. There is no longer any knowledge of how many women suffer violence, how many have been killed or will be. The problem is that these are people who have legal weapons of their own, they have guns in possession of where the M.O.P. gave them that weapon. It's not a weapon they bought illegally. It's about people the state has given guns to, which the state has on record as domestic abusers and whose state has to take that weapon away and make it impossible for them to have that weapon legally in their possession. The largest number of crimes in the family are committed precisely by legal weapons because it's not about classic black market criminals buying that weapon, it's about people who have that weapon in their possession as respected members of our society, and it's about the violent ones. Please, and I appeal once again, none of the DS MPs will argue under this amendment and supplement law. This is a law for all vulnerable women in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40360	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 129 of the total number of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40361	Thank you. For the sixth time in the name of the Turnover Movement, I propose two laws: the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services and the Law on the Conversion of Debt in Swiss francs to the euro. For the sixth time I've tried to explain that passing these laws is necessary. If you had voted for these laws last time, there would have been no threatened customers of financial services on the streets of Belgrade in cold weather and night and day. Now they're in the park waiting for the government's decision. The Prime Minister of the National Bank's proposal so far, to put it quite nicely, was incorrect. The proposal went towards protecting the banks, protecting the monopolies, and they are looking for nothing more than a roof over their heads. They do not ask like Jorganka Tabakovic, that her debt be paid "Telecom", to pay off the debt for her apartment "Telecom". They demand that they repay their debt. They're asking to pay back every penny and give the bank two more dinars, but not seven dinars, as it is now. These laws go towards protecting ordinary citizens, against greening, against monopolys and against Serbian citizens being in debt slavery to banks that only in Serbia have this position. One in Serbia, the government protects banks, not its citizens. Citizens were protected in Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Montenegro, Bosnia, in all countries except Serbia. They'll wait for their citizens' rights on the streets, they'll freeze, because they have no other choice. They don't have a roof over their heads, because banks these days are checking out their property and sending them and 30,000 kids to the streets.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40362	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Branko Karavidic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - draft law amending the Law on Public Information in the media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40363	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow MPs, the European Commission's report on the situation in the Serbian media 20 days ago, is unfortunately devastating. There is no progress in applying the Public Information Act and the media. On the contrary, the obligation to enroll all owners directly or indirectly, who own more than 5% of the stake in the ownership structure, by August of the month, has not yet come to life. The adoption of a set of media laws in August 2014 is unfortunately the only success that the European Commission recognises. So we haven't moved since August 2014. Does it matter to us to know who the media owners are, all those who in some way influence the formation of our opinion? I mean not only those who are obliged to enroll in the register with more than 5% share in the ownership structure, but also those who own less than 5% of the stake, and who exercise effective control over editorial policy, as well as sources of funding for more media. The practice, unfortunately, has shown that there are such cases. My proposal to amend the Law on Public Information and Media provides that all owners, directly or indirectly, must be entered in the register, regardless of the level of share in founding capital. In this way, we will ensure transparency of the ownership structure, which will help restore citizens' confidence in the media, while reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media. I would remind you that one of the Constitutions guaranteed rights and the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as control of the legality and availability of legal persons, and for these reasons I call on you, for the fifth time now, to support this bill, to amend this law on the agenda of this session, primarily in the interests of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the 160 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40364	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, I already know for what time I want to give you and explain the reasons for putting on the agenda a session of the National Assembly Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. As you have seen, honourable MPs, this law essentially contains only one amendment, one member, but with far-reaching and long-term positive effects for the economy of the Republic of Serbia. I know that some so-called. Financial experts, or those who so present themselves, believe that general taxes cannot be low because this would lead to a rise in the fiscal deficit of public debt. But I will remind you, honourable MPs, that many countries, primarily in transition, had relatively low profit tax rates and this proved to be an important fiscal instrument in the function of developing the economy, increasing employment and ensuring a high growth rate in the future, primarily through an increase in exports. With this tax discharge, we will begin to create for investors and all those who are now operating an attractive tax system in the service of the economy and the gradual growth of GDP. Only a reduction in profit tax from 15 to 10% will not solve all the economic problems that exist, unfortunately, in Serbia, but can certainly be an important fiscal instrument for the recovery and growth of our economy. Therefore, honourable MPs, I ask you at least to put this law on the agenda so that, in some way, with the help of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we can help you heal our economy. For this reason, I thank you in advance and I hope that you will have understanding, because this is simply not a law proposed by one party, one individual, but I believe that this goes in favour of all citizens of Serbia, primarily our economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40365	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 148 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40366	On behalf of the Turnover Movement, about a month ago, I proposed amendments to the Criminal Code, which would sanction acts that go against freedom of expression, which go against free elections. We are witnessing that there are currently no conditions in Serbia for fair elections. This was proven in the local elections held in the previous period, in elections that both threatened and beaten and intimidated and bought votes. What do we have ahead of us in the spring election? The National Assembly must ensure conditions for the next elections to be fair. If the next elections are not fair, this country will not be a legal state. If a situation occurs in some cities in the previous period, where votes were bought or bought at the market, it will not be legitimate government. Once again, the Turnover Movement will not recognise those elections. I am sure the citizens of Serbia will not recognise the elections, under allegations, where votes will be bought. I am sure that in the next period, opposition parties, movements, will find a way to respond to the repression that the government is taking, which it has in the media, through the instrumentisation of the institutions of state, police, judiciary and will find a response to these actions by the authorities and will not allow the next elections to be stolen or votes to be bought. I suggest that you accept a proposal to amend the Criminal Code that would sanction the purchase of votes, the violence in the elections, the sanctioning of the purchaser of votes because they now respond, the truth, do not respond either, the perpetrators alone, do not respond to the presidents of the parties ordering the purchase of votes, those who are these days sharing packages in the Old Town in Belgrade to get the elections. I propose to the MPs, elected by the will of the Serbian citizens, to accept the law. They accept nothing but that the next election is fair. I think it's the least they can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40367	Time. Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the conversion of credit to Swiss francs into euro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40368	Dear People's MPs, while we sit here in a warm hall, on the streets of Belgrade, or in parks, freeze citizens seeking their rights. I think it's your duty to go around them and hear the truth from them. I will go to the park next to the National Bank after the discussion, where vulnerable customers of financial services camp, people whose side the Prime Minister, the Government, ministers won't stand for, because they protect foreign banks. I urge you to leave too, it is your duty, first of all, and I should not invite you and appeal to your conscience, to visit the citizens who represent 100,000 citizens who are at risk of banking monopolies, threatened by greening banks that do not accept the proposals made by the Efficient Association, that debts, as they have done in all countries, are converted to the euro, not to return seven euros instead of one taken, but to pay back two or three. They are not for Telecom to pay for their apartment, as Georgeanka Tabakovic paid. They're just asking not to return seven times as much as they've taken. It's your duty to talk to these people - people, families that have little children. On Saturday, there were half a year and two years and seven years and 11 years. They were freezing with their parents because they had nowhere to go. The banks these days are listing their assets, the apartments they put under mortgage for sale, they'll lose their roof over their heads. Thirty thousand families, or 100,000 citizens, will remain in front of your eyes without a roof over your head. All other countries have passed the law. No recommendation from the Serbian government will bear fruit these days. So they are not banks that respond to optional recommendations. They have a large capital behind them that wants to earn, make money on citizens, make money on Serbian citizens, because they can't get that kind of profit anywhere else. He won't look back on any recommendations. Accept the law we wrote together for the Turnover Movement and "Effects", accept the law that would protect these citizens, accept laws that would resist banking monopolies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40369	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40370	Thank you, President. In June of the month, we gave a proposal to amend and supplement the Property Tax Act. In fact, we believe that, leading a bad, non-road policy, the government, in the same year that wages and pensions were cut, increased all taxes, and, among other things, the solutions to citizens' property taxes were increased. We believe that this is deeply unfair and our proposal suggested a different way of accounting for property tax which, ultimately, would not lead to a reduction in that income, income from local self-government, but we believe that it would be fairer because, above all, it would also tax the land found in the lease, which is now not taxed under the law, and land is leased for 99 years, is located in exclusive locations, it either generates profits by agriculture or builds objects on which profits are also made. We believe that non-taxation is a loss of state, and taxpayers in this case would not be endangered citizens, but those who have money and create extraprofits just because they don't pay this tax. Also, another important change is to make it clear in the law that the tax on construction land is charged in a difference of over ten acres. The current interpretation is that if you have a ministry, if you have a plot up to ten acres – you do not pay taxes, and if you have 11 acres, you pay an area of 11 acres. Our proposal is to charge only to the difference of over 11 acres. We believe that inaccuracy in the law is interpreted by the Ministry at the expense of taxpayers and citizens and should be changed. The most important thing may be the way of taxing on citizens' property. It is that instead of the current tax credit that goes against whether the taxpayer lives in that address, there is a reduction of up to 40%. We believe that the law we propose should be made, that 25 square meters for the obligor, as well as for every household member, is not taxed, means that those apartments are practically for a four-member household, up to 100 square meters, that such apartments and such assets are not taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40371	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the determination of public interest and special procedures in the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40372	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, for the sixth time, I propose that this Assembly again consider the Law establishing public interest and special procedures for expropriating the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water", as they popularly call it, the law on building Belgrade on the banks of the Sava River. There are two reasons why I have proposed to the National Assembly that we reconsider this law today. One that is according to the legal profession, and also what is said in the people, this law is deeply anti-constitutional, intruding into the integrity of private property. Because this law denies the Expropriation Act and allows the expropriation of private property by the state and the city of Belgrade to give in to another private person in order to gain personal benefit and profit. I mean that private who got to build buildings on the banks of the Sava River. I think if it were against the law, it would be against the law, and this Assembly should reconsider this law in order to correct that injustice. Why, then, if anyone who comes to power can bring a "lex specialis" and what the Constitution guarantees as an unimpeached property, it is a private property, declares a general interest and that someone without bid, respected colleagues, without public competition, that this country should use another to build and earn profits. It is deeply illegal and it is against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason I'm proposing this is how we finance this whole project. First the expropriation, and second the equipment of that Sava plateau that has no traffic, no water, no sewers, no electricity adequate. All of this will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and by some rough estimates are hundreds of million euros at a time when Serbia longs for jobs, for investments, when we raise loans to start something in Serbia, we give hundreds of millions of euros to build water, electricity and sewerage in the part of a Belgrade municipality. That's not good. That money should be invested in starting jobs, and if something is to be built in Belgrade, as Nis has called for self-dependence, gentlemen of the Belgrade-based Belgrade-based citizens will call for a self-sufficient contribution and make good luck to you. But at this time, it's not right to finance it from the republic's budget when the republic takes credit to iron out the deficit in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40373	Time, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Information and Media Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40374	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected citizens south of Sava and Danube, more than a year ago, the republican parliament passed two laws, the Information and Media Act and the Public Media Service Act. The law ended the possibility of funding local self-government, local public media services. In Serbia, only two public media services of RTS with their two programmes and three radio channels and RTV with their two television programs and three radio channels are legalized, and people, half of Serbia under Sava and Danube, no longer have the opportunity to have their local public media service and, as the culture minister explained at the time, is sufficient to cover the needs of half of Serbia's citizens of daily information. What's the point, which is reality, is that we have a "The Chronicle of the region" in which Nis is represented by 15 seconds, and you find about how many of your places you come from are represented in "The chronicles of the region". You have a morning program where you only have a temperature of how long it will be during the day and on the condition that you live in Nis, if you don't live in Nis, you won't even know it, and in orderly by law that was passed over a year ago, you'll pay a TV subscription that's been converted and it's called a tax, not a subscription, of 500 dinars, or as the President of the Republic said. The Prime Minister, about a month ago, said it would be 150 dinars. Normally, the rest will be financed from the Republic budget, that's our money again. What is not good is that people have lost the possibility of public information, so you have an example that in Nis the city parliament assembly has not been held, i.e. The opposition came out because there was no TV transmission, and that is the right of every citizen of Nis to hear what is going on and how the Nisa City budget is being spent, who all citizens are filling. You have a problem that minorities under Sava and Danube do not have the same rights and opportunities as minorities in Vojvodina to advertise through a public media service, they do, but they have to pay extra, because they have the possibility of forming a public media service in their native language. They have the right until citizens of Serbia who are majority animal and south of Sava and Danube do not have the right under this law. Our proposal is, the proposal of the ZZ – SDS – to re-examine this law and allow regional public service south of Sava and Danube which will be financed by the same model as the RT Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40375	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Media Services. It's not the same law? The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40376	That's two laws. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, here is all my story and desire to meet the needs of Serbian citizens only three MPs of the assembly majority have accepted these proposals and I thank them. I hope there'll be more. I remind you, Serbian citizens in this parliament have about half the MPs under Sava and Danube. Of that half, only three of them voted in favour of you having the right to a regional public service of money that you will pay neatly and which you are giving neatly through tax. So, you have respected citizens, you have an obligation to pay taxes, and the rest of your money is funded by RTS and RTS, but you don't have the right to use, you don't have the ability to use public media services as people living in Belgrade and as people living in Vojvodina. That's not what I'm saying for these people to lose that right, I'm just asking for the same right for the citizens of Serbia under the Sava id Danube. I'm looking for the establishment of regional public services so that people can be properly informed, to get information from what their life issues are in their local environment. Whether or not the waterway will be remounted somewhere, whether or not there will be a street without a water line. Is urban traffic in your place working? Is there enough medicine in your health care facility? They're big crowds. Whether the ambulance has the right vehicles or not has the right vehicles. Whether or not a street lighting and voltage is being remounted to every home, to the trafo. It is a topic that should be informed Serbian citizens, with the loss of local public media services, Serbian citizens have lost that right under Sava and Danube. They have the right to project private media to get that information, but just to tell you something, under Sava and Danube, there's a lot of unemployment. City budgets are charged with 60 to 65%. There's no money for that kind of funding, and why someone would double-pay something that belonged to him under the law. Why would someone pay an extra private public media service when it can be made possible by those money they pay as a fee for TV transmission for public media service. That is why I think that this Assembly should finally accept my proposal, to represent the interests of citizens, because we all swore that when we entered this House we would accept the amendment of the law and allow citizens to have the same obligations in the whole territory and the same rights. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40377	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 16, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 148 MPs, of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm sorry. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40378	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I propose for the 14th time to amend the Health Insurance Act and the famous member 41. The Health Insurance Act, which speaks of who has the right to dental services, through the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. What's this about? According to the Health Insurance Act, Article 41 says that, I will quote, "this is dental repair, they are entitled to the burden of the Republic Fund under the age of 18, high school students and students up to 26, over 65 years of age for some dental services and pregnant women and certain groups of patients with certain diagnosiss". In order not to list it now, all other citizens of Serbia, which is 4.5 million workers, i.e. users of the Fund of the Republic Health Insurance Fund do not have the right to do so. What the paradox is is that these 4.5 million workers pay contributions and the full budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and do not have the right to dental services, and all those who are users under some right, based on some right, based on some member of the law, the Fund that fills these 4.5 million, have the right to do so. They should have it because it's younger than 18 years old, students, pregnant women and some specific diseases. What I propose to colleagues and colleagues is that, and the people who pay the contributions have the right to repair their teeth through the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. What's the need? Sufficient when dentistry exists in institutions of compulsory health care. All you have to do is buy material. In this year, over 350 million dinars were available in the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. You didn't agree to hire these funds and buy material, as the people say about tooth filling. Now here's the new budget. Let's change Article 41. The Health Insurance Act and allowing people to have dental services through the funds they provide. That's their money. Why don't you give people that they can part of their money that they're paying into the Republic Fund to use to fix their teeth? Serbia is the number of teeth removed, I think the first in Europe. You have over 65% of people over 60 who don't have teeth in your head. Let people fix their teeth. We live in a very difficult time, we're in a financial crisis, people don't have the opportunity and money to pay dental services, no matter how cheap they are. This is a way to help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40379	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted on 153 MPs from a total of 166 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the sitting be complemented by the items — Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40380	Dear President, MP Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS submitted a proposal three months ago to supplement the Value Added Tax Act, which is very short and clear, which is that baby food is taxed by a special rate of tax, 10% added tax instead of the current 20%. We had opportunities in October of the month when the government came with its proposal and amendments and additions to value added tax, to discuss this with the minister. The minister was then not against this proposal, and he felt that adopting this proposal would not lead to an expected result and a reduction in the price of retail food for babies, as well as to increase administration and for that reason he suggested to you fellow Members not to accept our amendment. We believe that these reasons do not stand, above all we believe and do not think that it is true, that a reduction in VAT would not lead to a reduction in the price of baby food in retail, and I think it is inappropriate for the minister to say that the state does not have the mechanisms to ensure the legal application of VAT and that when VAT is reduced, prices in retail are not reduced. I think it sends a bad message, that the state has no mechanisms and is unable to allow laws to be consistently respected. The other thing is that this measure, and we all agreed here, is not a solution to the problem of young people's parents who today in Serbia are becoming more and more difficult to become parents, especially for economic reasons, because they can't find a job and if they have that job, they are paid less than they were before. Obligations to the state are higher, uncertainty is higher. Whoever took the loan, in some cases his war was twice as big as it was a few years ago, and to all that, the government is gone. There is no answer, there are no measures that would turn that sad picture of Serbia that says that every year more than 30,000 people in Serbia will die at the end of the year, compared to the number of people born. Such a picture does not guarantee the future of the Serbian state and I think that we as responsible people should do something to reverse this trend. We want to use this debate as a starting point, because we know that this measure is not enough and that a more comprehensive approach is needed, but the government has so far offered nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40381	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted on 153 MPs from a total of 166 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Interim Regulation Act and the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40382	A little over a year ago, MPs of the ruling majority, and not all MPs, as the minister likes to say, adopted the Law on the temporary arrangement of pensions, which, in our opinion, are illegal and unconstitutional, and I am quite certain and unfairly reduced to pensioners who have a higher pension of 25,000 dinars, by ten, twenty, and in some cases 25%. After more than a year of applying these measures, unfortunately, we can conclude that, apart from reducing budget deficits in the division – grants to the Pension Fund and the cost of salaries, there are no other savings in the budget. On the contrary, when you look at the other costs of the budget they are 2% higher than in 2014 and we will, of course, talk more about it when and if the budget ever comes to this Assembly. Here, today is December 1st, the budget is still missing, so either we break the deadline for adoption of the budget, which is December 15th by law, or we discuss it by emergency procedure, which is also not possible under the Rules of Procedure, but in this Assembly everything is possible and that too. Our proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Temporary Editing, the way pensions are paid is very simple. We propose that the adoption of this law ceases to apply this law, that pensions be returned to that legally prescribed level that existed until 1 November 2014, and that the difference in the amount of pensions reduced during that period be paid to those citizens within 30 days. We think it's the only fair solution, that it's completely inappropriate if there's supposed to be room in the budget, as we hear from the prime minister and finance minister, for some pension increases. So, first of all, he has to go back to those citizens who have an illegal, anti-constitutional and unfairly reduced pension, and then see if there's room for all pensioners to increase pensions at least with inflation growth or price growth. I'll remind you, inflation will be 2% this year, and the government promises an increase of 1.25%. So, real pensions won't be increased, they'll be less real again than they were a year and a month ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40383	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40384	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party-Together for Serbia and Green Serbia has submitted a bill supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government early this year to be timely brought in and to be incorporated into the 2016 budget. However, this congregation had no understanding, although I have repeatedly suggested that it be put on the agenda, so I am doing so this time, and I will insist because I think it is very important to resolve this issue. Namely, the scholarship of students and students is now in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. We know the state of the Republic of Serbia's budget and how little funds are allocated for these purposes. We therefore proposed to be a member of the 20. The Law on Local Self-Government is complemented by adding point 16a after point 16a – Regulation and security of scholarship of students and students. By doing so, local self-governments that are currently detached from certain means of helping materially threatened students and students would receive legal basis and legally scholarship students and students. It would help parents to educate their children, and even students would create a moral obligation to stay in their environments after school and work there, not to go abroad and become an ever older nation. I urge the Assembly to accept this proposal and not end up like all the proposals that have come from our parliamentary group, which are related to increasing the birth rate, to help parents raise and educate children, such as the proposal that counterpart Djurisic spoke of earlier to reduce VAT on children's food. Whenever we went out with one of these proposals, it was said that the government would bring a strategy to increase the birth rate, which would also include facilitating parents to raise and educate children. Since this strategy is still a mental noun for us, we are indeed calling for us to go at least now with these individual measures, and if the adoption of that strategy comes, and after its application, so much better, it will be better for all citizens, but for now I suggest that this bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40385	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the points of the draft law. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40386	Thank you, Madam President. Our parliamentary group has also submitted a bill on the draft law. In fact, law making is not just a decision on a bill submitted to the National Assembly, most often by the government, which has recently been reduced to the conduct of the ruling majority. The adoption of the law also involves regulating how the bill is formulated, as well as regulating the procedure that will guarantee the formulation of quality law proposals, which will not be changed at any time and formulating the bill in a transparent manner, including all relevant entities in the process of formulating the draft law. This would guarantee legal certainty and better law enforcement. The law with which citizens had the opportunity to get to know each other at the stage of formulating the bill, whether by affecting the adoption of the law initiative or by participating in public debates, but nevertheless, they had the opportunity to get to know each other. They are easier to accept those laws when they are passed and these laws are then better applied, but they do not remain a dead letter on paper as some laws passed in recent years. I must stress here that it is also an important issue and opinions from other state authorities in the adoption of the law, particularly the Citizens' Protector, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Commissioner for Free Access to Information from Public Matter and the Protection of Personality Data and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which have an obligation to give an opinion on the regulations which are within the domain of their jurisdiction. Their opinions are very important because they are always in a high degree of knowledge and expertise and they have experience gained in the application of law in these areas. In view of this, it is necessary to establish the proposal's obligation to request an opinion from these authorities when the laws are within their jurisdiction. The practice so far has been that these bodies are self-initiativeally delivering opinions and the government is deciding on these opinions, and MPs have no way of knowing... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40387	Time. It's over. We're putting it to a vote, what can I say for three minutes is... (Biljana Hasanovic Korać, from the place: I could only finish the sentence. Don't just say that you've been denied the law. Every session for two and a half hours means, don't really. It's not right. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Logs of the Second, Third and Fourth Sessions of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2015. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this year, held on 9, 13, 14, 15 and 16 October and 3 November 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 29 MPs from the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 held 9, 13, 14, 15 and 16 October and 3 November 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 20, 21, 22 and 23 October 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, voted 22 MPs out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 held on 20, 21, 22 and 23 October 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 3, 4 and 5 November 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 23 MPs from the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 held 3, 4 and 5 November 2015. National MP Igor Bečić proposed to carry out: - a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on mining and geological research and the proposal for a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030; - a joint single search on the proposal for a law on the certification of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the operation of paid jobs of members of the family of diplomatic or consular representations, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on the visa waiver of the holders of diplomatic and official passports and the Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Succession and the consolidation of the bilateral Treaties, and - a common Single Review on the proposal for the implementation of the Treaty with the Treaty on the Treaty for the European Year of the European Parliament for the European Parliament. Does MP Igor Becic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, there is no vote by 23 MPs from a total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – one, abstention – there are no, 18 MPs have not voted from the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 as a whole. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Mining and Geological Research, 2. Proposal for a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030, 3. Proposal for a law on the approval of the International Convention against Recruitment, Use, Finance and Training of Mercenaries, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the conduct of paid jobs of members of the family of members of diplomatic or consular representations, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the succession and consolidation of bilateral contracts, 7. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2015 Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, the 8th Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. We're going to work on a set agenda. I'm asking Minister Antic to enter the O.R. I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy Mirjana Filipović, State Secretary at the Ministry, Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy Sinisa Atanakovic and Jelena Simović, Senior Advisors, as well as an independent adviser at the Ministry of Mining and Energy. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2) and Article 190(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on mining and geological research and a proposal for a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030. Does Minister Antic's Proposer want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40388	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are in front of you with two extremely important sets of questions for Serbia's development, two issues that, without any doubt, deserve great attention from both parliament and the general public, for the reason that there is one law that regulates one matter and an area that can greatly change Serbia's appearance, which can greatly improve life in Serbia, I think about mining. And, of course, before us is the Energy Development Strategy as one of the key economic branches, one of the areas that undoubtedly has a key impact on all other flows of economic and social life in the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I have no manners to read the arguments we provided you in the material itself. I guess that's something you could have met. I want, first of all, to say in the shortest possible terms what is essential, how we see things about both the law and the strategy, what are the key elements about which things will develop in the future both in mining and in energy, what are the potentials of Serbia that should be improved, what are the chances that Serbia must not miss. Of course, in the course of the debate itself, in the context of the discussions and your objections, the suggestions, the suggestions, the criticism, there are me and my team to give answers to all the necessary questions and to be part of a debate that I really expect will be constructive, that it will be essential, that it will be fully related to these two topics which, I repeat, are so important to Serbia that they deserve to be put into the grip of this parliamentary debate through those issues that are exclusively related to matter itself. I would like to begin by thanking, above all, the people of the Ministry of Mining and Energy for the tremendous effort and energy spent in preparing this legal project. Indeed, a lot of time has been invested and a lot of energy has been spent to find this law before the MPs, and I deeply believe that we have managed to put into operation the preparation of this law all the potentials that we had as a ministry, but also as a country in general. I must begin by pointing out that the working group for the creation of the law itself, in addition to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, were also representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, representatives of the Republic of Spatial Planning Agency, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Faculty of Mining and Geology, the Regional Secretariat for Energy, as well as public enterprises from the work of this ministry, significant economic operators from the field of mining and geology, here I am primarily referring to the EPS, Kolubara, Kostolac, RTB Bor, NIS, JP "The underground exploitation of coal Resavica", the Mining Institute from Belgrade, the Institute of Mining and metallurgy Bor, the Geological Institute of Serbia. Also, in the debate both in the whole set and in countless meetings held in the ministry with all representatives of the mining industry, we received a number of comments and suggestions from the most significant others, above all I think of segments of the mining industry in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that on the issue of the law, we had consultations and certain proposals and suggestions from the world's largest companies, such as Friport McCorman, and then the company "Rakit Explosive", that as part of the preparations for this debate over the law, there are consultations with the Geological Mining Association of Serbia, which is made up of all those private companies dealing with research and mining in Serbia, and among them is "Rio Tinto" as one of the world's leading mining companies. We had meetings and suggestions and suggestions from the Association of Mining Engineers from Bora, the Academy of Engineering of Serbia, the Association of Geological Engineers and Technists of Serbia, the Stara Planina Risort Company, the Association of Contemporary Industry of Clay Products, Aquamont Service, Georading, the Business Association of the cement industry of Serbia, the Republic of Hydrometeorological Institute, the Corridor of Serbia and others. So today, what is in front of you is a law that took part in its preparation from the most significant university institutions in Serbia dealing with the affairs of geological research, mining, through all professional associations, to the one to which this law will apply, which is primarily the mining industry. In this segment of the mining industry, I repeat, those companies that are on behalf of the state are involved in mining business, as well as those companies that participate in Serbia's life, which through the exploitation of certain sites, through investigative activities that work throughout Serbia. I believe that such an approach in the preparation of the law itself was the basis for a successful legal project that should provide itself with several elements. The first element is that this process of mining and geological research in Serbia is in line with the highest domains of what science says, as our institute says, which is our university, which are indeed reference institutions in this area in Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, this law must have that dose of practicality and that the answers to all those issues that mining companies face daily in the realisation of their business activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and finally that this law must ensure that Serbia, as one serious, responsible state, function as its mineral raw materials, its natural resources, does so in one responsible way and according to the time in which we live and according to generations to which they come. We have come from the fact that this legal framework, which we had in the Republic of Serbia, when only mining and geological research were in question, was brought up with a certain time difference that contained the fact in itself and, at that time, the axiom to deal exclusively with state-owned companies and that mining is one of the only state-owned jobs, and that on the other hand, the time that has elapsed has brought some changes and that in this mining sector we have an increasing number of mining companies ready to, respecting our real reserves and our real potentials, bring serious investments into Serbia and to enter into the stage of a new tour of mining investment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The world around us has changed to a great extent, the mining we've had for decades has become something completely different around the world. In the first plan, it put an absolute responsibility in the mining business, a high degree of protection at the work of miners and people who do, in my opinion, the hardest job in the world, one responsibility to the environment, one need for the mining process to be followed by a strong cooperation with the local community. All in all, we have tried to identify all these things and to put all these things in one legal framework that needs to ensure that Serbia finally has those potentials that it has in one organised and quality way, and Serbia really has serious potentials when it comes to mining, Serbia has serious findings, Serbia is attractive from that point of view, and Serbia has to put this into place in one serious and responsible way. In recent weeks and months, since the Ministry team and I have tried to get this mining business out of a shadow that has been in the public eye for many years, and to put it in front of the public what mining looks like in our state mines, first of all I think about what it is doing in the Public underground coal exploitation company Resavica and that an outdated technology and high-level risk that we face daily in the process of realisation and mining production, through what potentials are and all players are interested in emerging on our market and bringing large investments that, for the opening of individual mines, are measured and amounts that are about a billion dollars in size. In the past weeks and months, you have been in a position to see and hear, not only say our officials, but also the words of representatives of these major world companies doing research, which is that Serbia really has serious potentials. I'm going to stand out a few of them that I think are key, that they're Sucapital. First of all, in the Borski Basen, in addition to those activities performed by RTB Bor and who have really played a capital role in the industrialisation and development of Serbia over the past decades, we have research done by private companies, renowned companies, including "Rakit Explosive", whose owner is world-renowned, the owner of one of the five largest world mining companies "Friport McCormen". They are doing a truly significant research on the site of Chukar – Peki whose results give great encouragement to all of us and the possibility and realistic expectation that, I repeat, in addition to RTB, we will have a new field of exploitation that will be world-class with a high degree of copper and gold, whose exploitation can change life and our entire eastern Serbia, but to all Serbia truly give a new injection, a serious investment that can, I will be free to say, to a large extent, change life and our economic structure. I repeat, all the indicators so far are saying that this is about finding the world class that will lead us to the opening of a new mine in the next few years. Some are estimates that the opening of the mine will be an investment of up to $1 billion, with a large investment in infrastructure in eastern Serbia, with the creation of new jobs, with the creation of these additional dizzinesss that should be employed fully and the capacity of the new solvent plant in Bor. On the other hand, in Western Serbia, we have what Rio Tinto does, I repeat, one of the world's largest mining companies, whether it's number one, two or three in the world, I really wouldn't be able to get into those grades today, but it's a company that's been doing serious research for several years, and it's already about 70 million dollars, whose results are extremely good. They're doing research on borates and lithium and the result of these research is this new mineral formula that, let's say, let me use a word that may not be entirely mining, but completely autochton, it's only found there. It's about jadarite, which, I repeat, contains a high degree, high percentage and lithium and borate. It is about the research activities that are in the final phase, it is about the research activities that are already being rounded, and I expect that by the end of 2016, Rio Tinto will hand over the reserve lab, after which the certificates should be opened in the shortest period, and I expect it by the end of 2017 or during 2018. The new border near Loznica is also an investment in the order of one billion dollars, which on the one hand needs to provide a new infrastructure in the area, on the other hand should provide for the opening of a mine that will employ people in the area and is finally about an investment that needs to ensure that Serbia becomes one of the important points of planetary observation, as the exploitation of lithium is expected to meet around 20 needs of the world's lithium market. It's an extremely capital thing for this country, if we're smart in the future, and I believe that we are, and I'm sure we are, and we're able to attract to that losin end of investors who are going to be getting out of the Serbian country, to make new factories, which are going to turn that lithium into some final products, it's really one big chance that I don't even think today I'm aware of, or anyone who's aware of what kind of investments it is, considering that it's technological development that's been going on over the past years and decades, or decades, for decades, harder than ever, happening around the world, about electric cars and new types of batteries used primarily by that car industry. If we add to this the potentials we have for lead and zinc, if we add some of the potentials we still have at this stage when it comes to shale, it all imposes the need to have, as a state, a modern, active law on mining and geological research, a law that will try without too much administration, but with one fully responsible approach to these valuable raw materials that we have, put all of this into function and attract investors. It is my belief that this law is such that it attracts investment, I believe that this law will be the wind in the back of all those who make decisions whether Serbia is a good place to invest, that Serbia, in that case – is. This law defines and determines all processes from the beginning of geological research itself to the opening of a new mine, this law gives one serious guarantee to all those who are brave and determined to enter into the process of investing research to know that the moment they enter, if they follow all these steps they need to fulfil in the research process themselves, they will come up with the exploitation right, and that is precisely what is necessary because in modern mining in such large research activities, it is about the very research process itself, the millions of suspicions that are being invested in the research process. What I have to mention, just to have a vision of orderly size, about these two projects that I've talked a lot about "Triport's Chukarov Pek" and "Rio Tinto" Jadarit, these are investments that have already been made in these research activities by more than 50 million dollars and are expected to be spent around $100 million until the end of the research activities that are only in the drilling of research and research activities. For such large investments, it is necessary for someone to enter the research to have our legal framework so that these people and these companies are domestic, and we have a lot of domestic operators dealing with research, whether they are foreign or foreign, that is to guarantee that this money that they invest, if the end of the story turns out to be invested wisely and wisely where there are reasons and where the deposits are good enough for the exploitation itself, that the right to that exploitation will indeed be realized. The law defines raw materials that are of strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. In addition to oil and gas, coal defines as a raw material of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia and copper ore and gold. We're introducing borates and lithium. I thank the MPs who insisted on it and we have had a lot of these proposals regarding lead and zinc, we have further analyzed it as a ministry. Our proposal will be to accept these amendments. For these raw materials that are of importance to the Republic of Serbia, certain work activities are defined which are an expedient procedure for investors in the process of creating an exploitation field, expropriation and all of those elements and conditions necessary for the process to be done efficiently, responsibly and that objectively the large capital that Serbia has in its country, in order to put into function Serbia's development. I'm going to try to taxively, without entering a detailed lab for what's available and time, to count just a few of the most significant segments that the new law provides, except for those I've already talked about. Therefore, raw materials of strategic importance, as I have already said, which allow for the implementation of the special list expropriation process, and then, in addition to setting measures and activities for the realisation of mineral policy, certain measures and activities to implement the policy of the development of geological research, mineral policy in order to achieve strategic long-term objectives in the field of research. Additional competences are given to the Geological Institute, the scope of basic geological research and applied geological research are expanded, the conditions that economic operators need to fulfil in order to carry out geological research are defined to ensure that geological research of mineral and other geological resources is carried out on the basis of solutions and approvals for geological research issued by the Ministry, or by the competent authority of the AP if research is carried out on the territory of the AP, it is possible for the geological research of mineral resources to obtain natural building materials to be carried out on approval for research issued by the Ministry. The conditions for granting authorisation for the conduct of geological research, the length of the investigation period, the possibility of extending the investigation period are more fully laid down. The possibility of a mineral and other geological resource researcher being able to apply for the retention of the right to an investigative space has been introduced in order to prepare the exploitation documentation. The area of the research area used for geological research has also been defined. Certain quantities of mineral raw materials are allowed to be taken for technological testing. Closer is the right to use and make available the results of applied geological research and documents containing the results of these research. The classification of mineral raw materials, groundwater reserves and geothermal resources is determined in accordance with the relevant regulations and rules on reporting and classification. The conditions and means of determining the exploitation space and quantity of resources and groundwater and geothermal resources of a low empapia, as well as the need to monitor the control and use of groundwater and similar resources, have been determined. The exploitation of mineral raw materials reserves as well as the exploitation of non-metallic mineral raw materials to obtain construction material is determined on the basis of approval for the exploitation field or approval for exploitation. The conditions for granting an authorisation for the operation of the exploitation, the suspension of the importance of the same approvals and the like have been defined closer. Closer are the conditions for approving manual washing of precious metals from application, and collecting other minerals from the surface of the earth that can make a physical face. We also had in the media people registering as entrepreneurs and doing it. So it becomes a very, very interesting segment in which people across Serbia are doing. We're gonna fix it. Specific conditions and method of exploiting non-metallic mineral resources to obtain natural building materials have been defined. Closer is the defined type of investment-technical documentation within the meaning of this law. It has been established that mining works are carried out according to the main mining project, the additional mining project, etc. The trusted work of local self-government units for the issue of mining authorisation has been taken away. I know there were objections on the board, but first of all, it was a matter of matter that had to be absolutely arranged. I think Mrs Filipovic gave all the arguments at the board session that were the reasons that led us to do so. On the one hand, a good number of local self-governments did not access it adequately, and finally, no one was involved in inspection supervision in the segment. So this move by us from the ministry was extorted. The construction of mining facilities, the implementation of mining works is determined on the main and additional mining project and is carried out on the basis of a solution to the approval for the construction of mining facilities. Closer are defined conditions that need to be met by individuals to do research and mining work. More fully define the treatment of abandoned mines and mining facilities, which were created until the entry into force of this law. I repeat, remember, we have a lot of problems across Serbia, with such facilities and a lack of regulation on how environmental protection is taken care of, as well as the abandoned mines themselves. More clearly, the obligations of exploitation carriers regarding land recycling are determined in all respects of the technical project, technical, geological, recycling. I would remind you that we are meeting across Serbia with the practice that, I say, the hills of the ruins remain abandoned, that no one is taking care of them, that land re-cultivation is not done. It's something we had to take seriously and far more seriously than it's ever been legal to predict. The obligations of exploitation carriers in all other segments related to the protection of the environment are more clearly determined. Complete conditions are related to the use of data and documentation of basic geological research. The law suggests erasing the obligation to pay compensation for exploiting geothermal sources to give additional incentive to put these potentials of Serbia into office. The very approvals for the exploitation of geothermal resources are abolished in this law, because it becomes part of the matter that handles regulations in the area of water industry. An act laying down how to pay compensation for the use of mineral raw materials is proposed. Here we predict that those who have certain debts open up the possibility of paying these debts to certain wars, i.e. to make certain reprogrammes. That's where I'm going to do a little depression, we've been paying a lot of attention to creating a more serious and responsible process in the charging segment for the use of mineral raw materials. I think we've made a big step in that. As figures that can confirm this looks about like this – since December 2006 when compensation for the use of mineral raw materials has been calculated in this way as compensation of around 26 billion dinars, of which in 2014 and 2015 12 billion. So in a year and a half we charged those fees 47% compared to what was charged over all of these almost nine years. I think these are key provisions. What I don't want to escape from in this segment is a matter of certain fees and their amount, i.e. the distributions that are part of the law in the process of these fees. I would like to point out here that the Ministry of Mining and Energy did not change anything in that segment in relation to the existing legal framework, first of all, from the fact that the Ministry of Finance is preparing a new law on fees which would be a special law and that this law would define all fees charged on RS territory and we felt that it would be pretentious on our part and completely non-functional and non-functional that at the time of such a law being prepared, and we have all the information that this law will be quickly found before the MPs, that we are changing solutions to the Mining and Geological Research Act. Given that this is coming out of our law, we understand the amendments that have been submitted, we understand the amendments, first of all, it seems to me, the SVM regarding the situation in three Vojvodina municipalities, the Srbobran, the Kickinda, and it seems to me, the Kanjiza on whose territory is indeed the largest amount of oil and gas exploitation in RS territory. We understand that there is a need for these environments to return to a greater extent part of this paid ore rent, as we freely call it, since their infrastructure suffers the most in the process and as a ministry we have a high degree of understanding of this problem and in the preparation of the law on fees we will be at the point that such environments need to return to a greater extent some of the funds that we collect as a state based on that mining rent. I repeat, at this point we were unable to change such things for two reasons. First, because these relations have already been established and are part of the budget that enters the Assembly in the next few days, on the one hand. On the other hand, what is more strategically important to me is one system law being prepared to settle all these issues. At the very end, I repeat, I believe that we have come before you with a good legal project and I believe that this legislative project, after the debate and after the amendments that you have submitted as MPs, will come out even better. I want to thank you for the amendments that in the vast majority were absolutely constructive, absolutely essential and professional and which were in the function of amending the law. I thank you for your approach. I expect that we will also have such a debate and that once again on those issues where we may not fully understand the arguments and come up with this law as one of the projects that the whole of Serbia will be proud of and, I repeat, it will be a major invitation for new investment in mining, and investment in mining is capitalically important for this country. They can employ people, bring a large amount of fresh money into Serbia, build a new infrastructure, multiply the number of employees in these mines, because you know that every miner gets a lot more people in these local self-governments. This law should also help those most underdeveloped environments, in which, as a rule, find such sites and deposits, that people in those environments feel the well-being of these investments, to get hired, to stay in those areas. All in all, I believe that we will all be very soon satisfied with the very concrete effects this new law will bring to life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40389	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40390	When it comes to strategy...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40391	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40392	I apologize, colleague Becic, to both you and all the MPs, if this argument was a little more general. I'm kind of on the point that it's one of the really essential legal projects, which requires that, through reason, it points to its importance and importance of all the provisions it carries. I repeat, I hope I wasn't boring, I haven't read the explanation they've already delivered to you. When it comes to the Energy Development Strategy, I must say at the very beginning that this is one of the key issues for Serbia's development. There is no future economic growth, there is no future economic development, there is no new investment, there is no normal life in Serbia unless it is accompanied by the development of energy, unless energy as one of the most important economic activities in Serbia is at the height of the task and the level of expectations and if energy does not ensure that all citizens, all businesses, all those who need energy to have one safe, stable, reliable supply of all those energies that are necessary for life and work in Serbia. Just starting with the fact that all the countries in the world at the top of their priorities are putting this new energy doctrine that first puts the issue of energy stability and energy security, we have come out with this strategy in front of parliament, with a strategy that should give these key directions to the development of the energy segment in Serbia by 2025 with a projection by 2030, as a guarantee that we as a ministry, that the government in general and finally state through this role of parliament, after its adoption, have a clear vision of what will happen in Serbia in that period, what will be our movements both from the point of view of demographicism and from the point of view of economy and economic development, and what capacities Serbia needs, together with all that will happen in years ahead, must be to ensure exactly what I've come from. So, one thing for sure, a stable supply of all energy and one complete energy security that, I repeat, is becoming one of the most important issues in the geostrategic frameworks of every country in the world. We came before you with this strategy. This strategy was worked by an expert team, which was defined in an open procedure, through one acquisition of services for a consultant. I am extremely happy that this role is entrusted to a top team of domestic experts. The project bearer was the Faculty of Mining and Geology, but with a commitment that was part of the documentation, to form a team of at least nine experts from different areas that are capitalically important for the creation of one of these strategic energy development projections in Serbia for the next 10 years, or projections for the next 15 years. I believe that a team of people who worked together with us to draw up this strategy, and I repeat, there was a lot of talk about the strategy, the strategy was part of a broad public debate, we only had six public presentations, i.e. public stands as part of this public debate, plus a huge number of professional, very expert discussions on the subject of certain segments of this strategy. I must repeat that this strategy was part of our bilateral screening in Brussels, that this strategy was delivered to both the European Commission and the Energy Community of Southeast Europe, whose contractual side we are, and neither the European Commission nor the Energy Community have received any fundamental objections to this text itself, i.e. that it is fully agreed. This strategy, of course, comes from energy resources and the potential of Serbia's energy sector. Then, like these key definitions and the key frameworks in which the movement is defined: energy consumption projection, i.e. the observed energy needs of the Republic of Serbia by 2030, established basic priorities for the development of the energy sector of the Republic of Serbia and established strategic directions of action for each of the areas of energy, in particular for electricity, heat, renewable energy, oil, gas, coal and energy efficiency. What I have to point out here is that in drawing up this strategy, energy efficiency, as one of the key places for future energy development in Serbia, is reflected from two angles. From one angle of our need to start saving energy as a responsible society in years ahead, because so far we have been known and all statistics show that Serbia is wasting energy, that we are among less efficient societies and countries, and that there is a need for a whole series of measures, incentives, campaigns, activities, which energy companies, which the ministries, are affecting a reduction of energy consumption, or a more rational use of energy. That's one angle. Another angle - we view through this energy efficiency strategy as an energy source because we deeply believe that every single dinar we invest in energy efficiency represents the best invested dinar in some new energy that we will be able to use and spend in a better way. This strategy contains a framework for the new Energy Act, which parliament adopted in December 2014. This law recognises all those directives and obligations we have accepted as the Republic of Serbia towards the Energy Community, our European integration process. This strategy recognises an increase in the incidence of renewable energy sources in gross final consumption from the current 21-22% to 27% in 2020. This strategy recognises the Energy Efficiency Directive in final consumption and energy services. This strategy recognises our obligation to achieve 9% savings in energy efficiency, as we have committed ourselves to our plans. This strategy recognises the application of the Directive on emission restriction from large deposits. It recognises the need to, as a state and as a society, have to invest in further coal exploitation, as one of the most significant raw materials and energy products that we, as a state, have. I have to, as a little digression, mention that in the past period, as Ministry and as Government, we have worked hard to ensure that the Republic of Serbia gets this right through use, through participation in international institutions, state organisations and through the application of new technologies, to get the right to use coal as our key energy. I would remind you that, unfortunately, we don't have large reserves and supplies of oil and gas, that the greatest energy, and what in our balances takes a key place, which you see in tables, just coal, is in the largest segment of lignite. We recognize the need to define through this strategy the directions and priorities of the use of that coal, in order to achieve this right and to make use of these coal supplies that we have for this century in which we are actually able to take advantage. We have defined all the essential and key directions in which each of these sectors should develop. We've defined what needs to be done when renewable energy sources are at stake, we've fully looked at our real potential, when it comes to renewables. They're not small, but they're not such that they can rule out the use of these conventional, classical, fossil fuels. We continue with a policy of subsidies and incentives for renewable sources. I would remind you that, as a state, we have a decision to grant subsidies for about 1.090 megawatts of renewable energy, most of it from wind energy, mini-hydro, then it's solar, biomass. With these 1,090 megawatts, we can actually reach the amount drawn by 2020 of 27% from renewables in total consumption. We've looked at the state of all the blocks, related to the thermal sector. We've looked at all the investments that are necessary to make, above all, in the process of desuming and denitrisation. We also looked at those blocks whose average age is almost 50 years and energy efficiency is below 30% and which will succesively withdraw from use in the period from 2018 to 2024. We looked at all the scenarios of how to replace this energy through the strategy because we analyzed two possible scenarios -- a reference scenario and a scenario with application of energy efficiency measures. This strategy provides complete and clear answers for each of these scenarios. The strategy is in line with the projection, I repeat, and the estimates of the population in Serbia by 2030. This strategy implies that Serbia, in the years ahead, will achieve economic growth and development of 3% and that total energy consumption will increase by 28% in that reference scenario by 2030 and 14% in the scenario by the end of the energy efficiency measures. We have defined what we need in terms of new energy capacity to realize this assessment. This looks about like this – by 2020 we need 2,620 megawatts of new capacities, of which about 1,100 from renewable sources, and that is exactly what we give incentives for. We need one new thermocapacity of 350 megawatts. It's exactly this thermoblock that we're working on in Kostolc and we're planning new thermocapacitities on gas and reversible hydropower plants like, let's say, a replacement, or a backup plant for renewable sources, considering that for every renewable source, you have to have commercial support because, simply, the wind and energy of the sun are such that they don't give the same intensity of production for one day, let alone 365 days a year. By 2030, we will need 1,323 megawatts of new capacities, from which, according to our projection, about 623 megawatts from renewables, new thermocapacity on coal of 700 megawatts, which all together until 2030 looks like a projection of new 3,943 megawatts of capacity, of which is 1,735 from renewables, 680 from reversible hydropower plants, 1,050 coals and 478 megawatts per gas. We've given a list of projects that can provide that. Believe me, it's not a list of good wishes, it's absolutely responsible projects. I repeat, in the thermocapacity there is a project that begins, a project that is already in the realization phase, that is Kostolac B3. When these thermocapacitys are at stake, here we, as key interesting projects, look at the potential we have in Stavlja. I would like to remind you that in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, i.e. in Stavlje, we have confirmed reserves for a little less than 200 million tonnes of quality coal, that, according to some projections, the total reserves in that deposit are significantly higher. This opens up the possibility of building thermocapacities in that part of Serbia, which is extremely important for us and also from the point of view of energy, I repeat, production of energy itself, but it is important for that part of Serbia who simply need such large investments, which need new jobs, which need a new value. This is also important for the overall segment of our energy production, which should be, I say, better deployed than what we have now because it will give us greater opportunities and better quality balancing of the system itself, which we will also need in support of the development of renewable sources. In addition to this Stavilja, we find an extremely interesting and potentially possible project related to Kovin. You know that we have an underground coal exploitation there, but you know that in front of the Regional Secretariat, maybe 15 days ago, additional reserves have been confirmed regarding that location, which once again opens up the possibility of building one thermocapacity, that we are now not calculating some profession to see what opportunities are and what strength of that capacity. In addition, we have additional opportunities in TENT, which is the potential project Tent B3 that could easily be realised if investors are found. If the investor is ready to generate the electricity there, sell on the market, without the predetermined need for the EPS, or the Republic of Serbia to buy that electricity at the price that would be predetermined. We've got a similar thing in the Colubary. There's a Colubar B project. We have serious intentions to look at the Teton Novi Sad projects. We have great potential in Moravia, Ibra, the middle Drina for the construction of hydrocapacity. A long talk is being made about the reversible Bistrica hydropower plant, the project is also something to think about, which should be analysed, as well as Gerdap 3, as well as a series of other mini power plants that should be run over the next few years. When it comes to coal, we will continue to explore coal beds in Serbia's territory. Replacement capacity will be opened for existing surface spears that stop working. New copies will be opened for new thermal power plants, which is where I first think about the first two projects I talked about, Kovin and Stavalj. The production of coal from underground exploitation will be optimised. At this point, we have nine mines in underground exploitation, of which the Alexine mine doesn't work. In these remaining eight, we have different situations. Some of them, realistically, are at the end of their lifetime. They should be taken with responsibility, from the point of view of preparing for the exit and closure of these mines in accordance with best European and world practice. Where there is capacity, that production will improve. What is extremely important to us when it comes to coal is the system currently in Serbia's Elektroprivreda, which is related to coal quality management. We don't know what composition comes in and what its energy value is. Once we have completed the coal management system, each of the wagons that arrives in the TENT will have its own declaration and each of them will have a uniform energy value of coal, and that will significantly improve the work process of thermopower plants and blocks themselves. When it comes to oil, first of all I have to point out, providing mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives in line with the directives, continuing research to find new beds. What is extremely important to us is the modernisation of the refinery itself in the Panchev oil refinery. We need to get into this deep processing system, we need to ensure through the deep processing system a more efficient refinery process that will essentially ensure that NIS can work under a financial positive, no matter what oil it uses whether it's domestic or imported oil. Of course, there is also a more efficient transport of oil derivatives through the production, it leads to a cheaper transport segment compared to this truck transport that at this point suits the most. When it comes to natural gas, it is of course a continuation of research. Using natural gas as a substitute for electricity consumption, for heat needs, going out into the gas segment for combined electricity generation, regional integration. We have to go past the existing, only gas connection that we have with Hungary, through which gas is supplied to Serbia, that we have additional interconnections. It's our priority with Bulgaria, but we're also thinking about other neighbouring countries. We're going to expand the storage capacity. What has already been agreed and what has already been signed is the expansion of the Banatski dvor underground warehouse, from the current 450m cubic meters to projectables from 800 billion to one billion. We'll continue to study the justification for further investment in the capacity storage facility. First of all, we are thinking about creating one massive capacity in ITB, but it must be part of a commercial understanding of our needs, i.e. looking at the possibility of Serbia becoming a gas hub in some way and allowing one additional supply of gas from neighbouring countries through these warehouses. Simply, you can't put the total storage capacity into function exclusively in our needs, because if we were to look at things like that, we would get into trouble right now, do we need something extra, because simply, nobody stores their total annual needs and it's expensive, it's unwarranted. At the end of the day, it would have a significant impact on the increase in gas prices. I repeat, I could talk about this for a long time. There's also the energy from municipal waste, that's something we're planning, which we're taking seriously. There are spikes as one resource that has not yet been explored enough in Serbia. Off-balance sheet, through our geological reserves, we can determine that our shale reserves are quite large. What is unfortunately a limiting factor is the fact that at this point we have seriously done research and certified reserves exclusively on the location of Dubrava, within the Alexine mines, on the one hand. And on the other hand, there is still a rather strong debate about this technology that separates oil from shale, i.e. electricity as a by-products of its ecological justification. We, as Ministry and as Government, are going to work on seeing and studying the possibility of using these spikes, but they are potentially very interesting for our future energy stability. I repeat, a serious strategy, has worked a serious expert team on it. I believe we will receive support from the National Assembly for this strategy. After that, as Government, we will adopt a strategy programme for a six-year period to ensure that the objectives of this strategy are achieved. Once a year, we will go to the Assembly to make time in strategy. A strategy relative to these passing times can also be corrected. I believe that we have come out with something that is completely serious and responsible for Serbia's future and that in one realistic way we have looked at all our energy needs for the next 10 years with a projection in 15 years and that the result of this will be what I started, that Serbia will be an energy-stable country that will ensure the secure supply of all our citizens and businesses to energy on the one hand and on the other hand that Serbia will be an energy safe country. With another apology for saying this long, I thank you for your attention and wait for the comments from the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40393	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Do any of the committee's reporters want a word? (No) Do you, Mr. Kruzhevich, want a word? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40394	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on mining and geological research and I will present some basic papers, which, in the draft law, is based on the applicable law, which is still in force. There are, as Mr. Minister said, a lot of newspapers I'm going to single out, and that doesn't mean the rest aren't that important. So, this bill simplified and shortened procedures for the issue of all types of licences, licenses to six months to one year. There are then certain mineral resources, i.e. mineral raw materials of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, for which they are allowed to carry out the expropriation procedure according to specific regulations, since mineral raw materials are naturally good in state property. Individual fees have been abolished. For example, a fee for exploiting geothermal sources. For that reason, to encourage the use of the same resources, as Mr. Minister said. The authorisation for the exploitation of geothermal sources is hereby repealed as the use of these resources is determined from the area of water production. The entrusted authority of local self-government units for the issue of mining authorisation has been seized. This is because they exercise that competence in a small extent and most units of local self-government have declared that they cannot exercise this trusted competence. The powers of local self-government units in the exercise of inspection control have been abolished. New licenses for legal persons have been introduced and, ultimately, the area of the investigative space for receiving geological research has been defined. In this proposal, this area is up to 100 square kilometers apart from oil and natural gas research. That's up to five thousand square miles. Research of groundwater and geothermal resources up to ten square kilometers. Research of non-metallic mineral raw materials for the acquisition of construction and industrial materials, not more than two square kilometers. In public debates we heard that the biggest criticism we received, this law has been given to these five thousand kilometers which some critics have said that in the surrounding countries, so in EU countries this area is smaller. Some five times smaller, for example, if we look at Romania, there are about a thousand square kilometers of this area. But according to some opinions, this area of five thousand kilometers isn't so controversial if the number of concessions a company can get is limited so that a monopoly can't be created. So, in a nonpartum, you can accept that. As we can see, the competences of the AP Vojvodina in this law or draft law have been detained and some have been added, as has been applied, to the geological research of minerals or mineral and other geological resources carried out on the territory of the AP Vojvodina at the request of a company or another legal entity or entrepreneur, are carried out on the basis of the approval of the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the geological research of mineral raw materials for the acquisition of natural building materials being carried out on the basis of the approval of the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. As for the fee itself, we call it a folk statement as a mine rent, in this law it remained the same, so 7%. But it should be pointed out that the mining rent or the proceeds from the mining rent are essentially changing. Changing in this law, the bill, the income from this mining rent, the income of the Republic of Serbia is 60%, and the income of the budget of the local self-government units is 40%. If this research is done in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, then 50% of the income of these mines is the income of the Republic of Serbia, 40% is the income of local self-government and 10% is the income of the Autonomous Province's budget. If we look at the current law, if we exploit these natural resources, so far 40% of these revenues, the income of the Republic of Serbia, 40% of the income of local self-government, and 20% of the income was so-called. The ministry's own income. If research is conducted on the territory of the province, then it was still in force in the law 40% of the income from the Republic of Serbia's budget, 40% remains or is the same in local self-government, 10% is for the budget of the autonomous province and 10% was so-called. The ministry's own income. As we can see, the essence wasn't changing, it was those incomes that were so-called. The ministry's own revenues are now the revenues of the Republic of Serbia. They so much, and remain local self-government and autonomous province, as they had been before. If we're already talking about compensation or mining, here we should point out or say that for oil and natural gas NIS has an advantage in our country, because as we have seen in the law, this mining rent is 7%, and they only pay 3% of the ore rent. This is based on an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation in oil and gas co-operation. Some 225 million dinars were paid in 2014, and around 236 million dinars were paid in 2012. As we can see, incomes have been getting smaller and smaller for years, but according to field data and the same from the secretariats, we see that NIS has been doing its research or production for years, in these last three years it has increased. So the volume of production is higher, and the revenues are unfortunately getting smaller and smaller. Based on these facts, as Mr. Minister said, three municipalities from the AP Vojvodina signed one protocol, since about 90% of oil or natural gas is drained in their territories, and these are the municipalities of Kanjiz, Kikinda and Srbobran. In 2014, more specifically on September 16th, they signed a protocol and gave the initiative to the ministry in charge to change the income of local self-government based on a mining rental. They handed it over so that this rent income, the 3%, would be the percentage income of these local self-governments, not to be divided into three or four parts. As we know, Mr. Minister has said that we have submitted several amendments, one of our amendments is just based on this signed protocol, which these three municipalities have signed and we already know what the fate of this amendment is, since Mr. Minister said it would not be accepted, but we had to hand this over after this law regulates the exact compensation for the mining rent. We are pleased to hear that the minister has an understanding of these municipalities, because indeed their infrastructure suffers the most from the exploitation of oil as far as Kanjiza, Kickinda and Srbobran are concerned and that the new system law will be passed as regards the compensation for the mining rent, or compensation, will respect or give some income to these municipalities. The next two amendments have been submitted by the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians regarding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. These are entrusted businesses, as regards the financing of basic geological research in AP territory and the second amendment was written on the adoption of the annual programme of basic geological research on its territory, in line with the long-term programme. We think that these two amendments are logically linked, that if they are to be financed from the AP, then they must also bring these short-term programmes that are in line with long-term programmes. We hope that some of these amendments will accept what we have submitted, thank you. Finally, to declare that the MPs of the Alliance of Duke Hungarians will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40395	Thank you, Mr. Peck. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40396	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, most of today's speech will be dedicated to the energy development strategy, although the minister, of course, well explained the projection for the next ten years, when it comes to development, when it comes to plans in the area which, I am free to say, is one of the key and fundamentals for Serbia's overall social development, not just for economic development. What I can strongly support on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, is the development of energy policy, what the minister is doing with his team, and it concerns the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the European Union's legislation and what it defines as an energy policy of the European Energy Community, where Serbia really achieves excellent results and meets almost all the criteria that have defined countries that are already members of the European Union. Whenever, as MPs, we have the opportunity to go to the European Energy Community, the first time happened months ago that members of the Committee on Economic Affairs were then the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Tomic, attending the European Parliament's Economic Committee. We can say that we are proud of what Serbia has done in that domain and when it comes to gas, oil policy, I hope also renewable energy sources and everything that will characterize the development of energy in the coming period. This energy development strategy sets a lot of ambitious goals, ambitious plans, and I hope that the fulfillment of at least 70 to 80% of these plans will allow Serbia to become a country that is energy-resistant, diversifying its energy policy, which unfortunately is not in this situation today, because we are very dependent, or totally dependent on imports of gas from the Russian Federation, and with oil and oil derivatives, and that in the next period, which is a firm promise of the minister, for a period of four or five years, we will have at least one aspect and another opportunity to supply ourselves from another source of gas, and not now, as we have today, a situation to supply ourselves from one single. This deep-down strategy speaks of the development of energy in Serbia and the parameters that need to be met in order to primarily get energy into the first plan, in order to realize projects concerning scientific research and, of course, the opportunities to attract as much as possible and as high-quality investors, new technologies and opportunities to be an energy-efficient country, that our public enterprises dealing with energy are as good as possible, as possible, more efficiently and productively through the possibility and definition of a clear corporate governance policy, and here I have to mention that what the Energy Community is most opposed to Serbia, which is that they were not separated transport and distribution, that is also done and of course, this represents some 99% of meeting the criteria of the Energy Community when it comes to Serbia. I feel free to say that in this area we are a country that is a leader, which has a clear vision and a clear strategy, that in this energy domain and the definition of energy policy, where we should go and I think for the first time in the last few decades, that this plan is long-term, that it goes until 2025 and even 2030. A lot of things we have to do in this domain and I will, of course, ask some questions to the minister, which are, not that they are unknown, but I'm curious about how the state will be and how the ministry will be put in that practical part of the implementation when it comes to finding new sources of gas supply. I must point out that we have a current situation that is not great, we have inefficient public energy companies, energy security is not at an envious level, the energy market is opening up and liberalising, which is very good and commendable, and we are going to move towards the energy market as goods, becoming a single market where competition will race and, in the extreme sense, have a clear shift and a positive signal and positive effects for households, for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but of course, for the economy. I think we're going to introduce a market price for commercial energy sources and we have prepared projects to encourage and stimulate. 80% of the country's production and 50% of the production concession are projected. That's quite an ambitious goal. I hope it will come true, given that you mentioned earlier when it comes to mining, negotiating, talking and that the largest mining companies in the world are already present here. We hope that's how it's gonna be when it comes to energy. As far as gas is concerned, what I would point out is that it is simply a clear domestic establishment, but we need to work on establishing a clear and good regional gas market, to meet how much it is possible for your plans to have at least two interconnections realised by 2020. We know that you have gone far in negotiations when it comes to Bulgaria. I would like you to tell me something about how this will continue, when it comes to Croatian interaction with Croatia, possibly Macedonia or Romania, which is mentioned in this strategy. I think the most logical thing would be to do an interconnection with Croatia so that we can supply gas through Krk and plants that can be finished and end up there in a year. I think it is in addition to your departures and conversations together with Prime Minister Vukic in September, but also in June of the month, when it comes to visiting the United States, where we were given a hand, and for the first time we received assurances from the United States that they were willing and that there is the possibility of opening up a new system and a new source of supply on their part. I think that along with sources that include "Shahdemizi" from Azerbaijan and the possibility to supply the gas from Egypt, Algeria, Nigeria, Qatar and other countries through Croatia and the pipeline that already exists and through Hungary to provide the necessary energy security. As for the gas reserves, I think it's done a lot. The Banatical Court includes a storage facility of 800 million cubic metres. What represents our potential is another two-and-a-half million cubic metres, and I think that in the next few years you will succeed in implementing these projects in order to ensure energy security and all of this with all these packages of the Energy Community, especially with respect to the third energy community package, it is talking about running one planned, serious energy policy in our country, which, of course, is the basis of overall economic development, because over the past decades has not worked very much on this plan. We've got out-of-date technology. There wasn't much planning, there wasn't any vision. We have come to be completely energy-dependent, that our plants are very old, that unfortunately we have dirty technologies, and in the strategy itself, it writes well how much it takes to invest in both interconnections and new plants and in new technologies, in order to reach that level of production and development to make our energy efficient, to be an energy-efficient country and to be one of the most fundamental and serious and best impulses for our economy and to contribute to the re-industry of the country that is planned. Everything that is done in the field of energy, of course, is done to strengthen the economy and it is done because of the economic growth that we need beyond. If we don't have enough productivity, if we're not efficient enough in this area, of course our economy won't be effective, that we won't be able to compete on a regional, let alone today's global market. I would also point out that it is very good that an Action Plan for mandatory oil and gas reserves has been developed, which is already in the European Integration Office and is waiting to be forwarded to the European Commission. It's something that's concrete, which has been done, that besides the strategy, in addition to those wishes we have defined, we have a clear plan of concrete steps to realise this policy. What we are most interested in and what we are very focused on is the social dimension and social component of energy policy management. It is in line with the policy of the Energy Community, but I think that, as someone who is a social democratic province, you have this sensitivity that those who are the most vulnerable, those who do not have the opportunity to earn money and their existence on the market, we need to pay special attention to them and we need to be energy-sensitive in order not to pay the energy market price. For everyone else, you have full support, at least from the SDPS, to establish market criteria and market functioning of the entire energy system, so that we don't have problems tomorrow like we have in the past 25 years with the work of public enterprises, with full economy, with mutual debts, which has created one huge domestic, and on the one hand, public debt. What I think we could use in the next period, you mentioned, is our resources that exist in the spikes. And you know yourself that in the U.S. oil production and the strengthening of oil production, which has not been recorded in the last 50 years, is being developed precisely because of the shale. I think it is very important to find a strategic partner not because we are not able to do it, but because of the new technologies that would contribute to the conservation of the environment and to the exploitation of the slates being done in the best possible way when it comes to processing them, when it comes to, but also the environmental aspects. So we should take that opportunity and open up a specific and new page in our relations with the United States, especially when it comes to energy. Our chance, aside from energy, is in new investments, in the area of security. I think our new doctrine, when it comes to foreign policy, which is led by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, is in favour of focusing on countries with the highest technological achievements, with countries whose companies can bring and bring investments that have a spillover effect, which will be good for our employees, for the new technology that will come here, but also for the new management systems that we need to implement, especially in the energy sector. Although this strategy implies and defines the possibility that citizens themselves, that it is one of the tasks of the state, are educated in this domain, in this sector, which is very important, in order to have energy efficiency, because one of the basic characteristics and fundamentals in terms of energy, is that it is not inexhaustible and that it must be saved, so that each citizen of the Republic of Serbia must be informed in that domain, informed. And that's the job of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that we all know what resources we have and that in the best possible and most qualitative way possible we should use them. I will also say something about the Mining and Geological Research Act, completely from an economic aspect, from the aspect of GDP and the development of the Republic of Serbia. Currently, mining implies and defines 2% of GDP. We have the chance, according to the latest analyses and research, that mining can reach 5% of GDP, that we can only open five mines, and that you have well stated, many US companies, from Canada, are very interested and are already doing research on the ground, only by opening five mines we can bring and contribute that our country has five billion dollars of investment, to open 1,500 new jobs, and, indirectly, to open 3,500 jobs, which is the most important thing in this consolidation of relations and economic situation, when employment is the first and only thing both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Parliament in the coming period, so economic development and new employment. So, full support for Friport and the Reserve Minerals and all other companies that bring new technology, which are serious, that want to employ our people and, of course, we have to make sure that we have trained personnel, that we invest and that we create the possibility that the Mining College develops, that there is an opportunity for its better and more dynamic development, but also that new professions and interests are developed, such as energy managers and all those in all projects, whether they are building and energy, should take care of energy efficiency, because they are precisely the ones who will succeed, I hope, to save money in the budget, save money to the state, so that we can realise other important projects for us. Of course, in the voting day, representatives of the SDPS will vote for both the Strategy and all that is foreseen in the agenda, of course, and the Mining and Geological Research Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40397	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, Mrs. Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40398	I thank the Chairman, Mr. Minister, today we are discussing, as you yourself have said in your explanation, a very important law and a strategy for energy development. At the beginning of my presentation, I welcome that you and a large number of your co-workers have been in parliament today and that within more than an hour, you have really made clear the reasons why we are discussing today the new law on mining and geological research and the strategy that we needed for our further development. I have to remind the public that we passed a new mining law in 2011, but that after a year we have come to know that we have to have a new law and what was characteristic, following the debate on this law, is a few versions of the bill. They were changing, and I'd say hello. I think it is a good thing that public debates respect the suggestions and the professions and the private sector and that the task of the task of the working group was to reach a comprehensive, good solution that would hopefully be applicable in practice and, above all, to the fact that permanent amendments to the law are not good for one long-term strategic development. The main objective of this law is to simplify the procedure and attract new foreign investment and investment in mining. Of course, the law has a lot of newspapers, and I'm going to continue to base myself on that paper with the conclusion that I'm going to ask you a few questions. A significant novelty of the new law is the introduction of licenses for companies, alongside licenses for natural persons. I think it's important from the point of view of the profession. This proposal also defines raw materials that are of interest to the state, which is important from the point of view of the faster obtaining of permits. It is good that everything is resolved in the Ministry of Energy and Mining, which is coordinated with other competent institutions for obtaining permits. Speed is a very important and important factor for an investor who makes a decision to invest. The first version of the bill envisioned a mandatory strategic partnership between investors with the state in research and exploitation of mineral raw materials. That original variant has been abandoned by the state for not being able to trace the companies involved in the exploitation. Somewhere I can understand the reasons why it has given up, because the strategic partnership with the state is not mandatory. It can be realised, in this new version, at the request of the investor, if he sees his own interest in it. In my opinion, the determination of the mining rent was very important for this law. You've listed two reasons why it's being transferred to the Ministry of Finance. I was thinking that maybe we should have found a solution to determine the amount of rent, after all. However, as far as I can see, the task force has made proposals to the Ministry of Finance based on which to determine an ore rent, so somewhere here I see that there is a connection between the profession, which I think is good. It is very important that the private sector's suggestion of a bank guarantee fell from 10 per cent to 5 per cent. The aim of this provision was to prevent the takeover of an investigative space that was impossible to investigate within a legal period of three years, which was resorted to by certain companies to prevent competitors from exploring. By law, local self-governments have the authority to carry out inspection and issue solutions when it comes to building, mineral raw materials and geothermal sources for personal use. The aim of the legislator, still valid law, was to employ as many people as possible, but in practice they achieved poor results, because of 123 municipalities, only nine local self-governments accepted this provision. As a result, the new bill provides for inspection tasks to be carried out by the sole resolution ministry, which I can practically understand, as a proposal, based on these facts that are very clear. Of course, the new bill also defines that all mineral, geological and geothermal resources are property of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that, as a country, future concession contracts will adequately protect its similar vital interests, and of course the basic interest in hiring new people, the opening of new mines, and I must mention that it is very important that five new mines are employed and that I be even more precise, to say: 3,600 indirect workers, thousands of direct, 976 jobs that are related to the activities of the mine itself. Another important moment in this new law is the intention to finally stand in the way of the practice of wild exploitation of natural building materials, and so that, in accordance with Article 82, the release of these raw materials into the market will be possible only with the guarantee that it comes from a legally exploited field. I think it's very important, because all these years we've been witnessing how many individuals have made serious capital by dealing with, primarily, sand digging, black gravel from river streams. The capital was then washed up in privatisation procedures, so I welcome this country's intention to finally get in the way of this kind of action permanently. The provision of Article 81 provides that the ministry shall make a decision to suspend the validity of the approval for exploitation. Considering that dealing with mining and geological research always, by nature of things, carries a serious risk to the environment, the logical question arises for me – what did the promoter foresee in the event that inspection supervision finds that the restructuring, i.e. the restoration of the terrain is not arranged properly or that it is not done at all? What about the exploitation clearance in that case? I guess it also ceases to apply in that case. That makes sense. But my opinion is that the law should always be as precise as possible, not including logic, assumptions and my opinion is that in this part of Article 81 it had to stand. Article 130 regulates situations relating to economic operators engaged in mining activities and are related to the protection of water and the environment. You also cited good and bad examples from our practice when it comes to this moment. I really think that the damage to the neglect and destruction of the environment is immeasurable and I would have a specific question for you – how will we deal with the pollution of the Adriatic? My question is about the damage to the devastation of the closed Antimony Mine in Kostanik, is there even a permanent solution to this, since after last year's floods we have seen what problems we are facing? Article 151 also provides for the obligation of a company with a majority state capital to submit all available documentation relating to the status of works and the state of resources to the competent authority in case of permanent suspension of mining works. My question is for you – why does this apply only to companies with majority government capital, why does it not apply to other entities with a different ownership structure? I'd have another question about Article 178 that provides for a prison crime of one to five years for all those who bring light-fired or other prohibited material into the pit with methane or other dangerous gases. However, in Article 178(3), in my opinion, it is mildly sanctioned to introduce incendiary materials. Anyone who has the right to access these objects in the nature of things has to know what they can and can't bring in and see at all where there's an emergency room? Personally, I think the damage to the intake of flammable materials is enormous. This is clearly prescribed by Article 178, but then, in one part, money is given, in my opinion, a mild penalty for mistreatment. Why is there even this inconsequential act? Why do you even give room for any unnecessarily acting? I think the punishments were supposed to be stricter. Two more important items at the end. The primary objective of geological research and research involves assessing the spare mineral raw materials and the economic justification of their exploitation, which is firstly, but I think nothing less is important and studying the character of the terrain in order to optimal spatial and urban planning. I think it's very important that the bill provides for avoiding construction on icefields with which we have huge problems today. I also think it's very good that the obligation to pay compensation for using geothermal energy is deleted, primarily for attracting foreign investment. Serbia is not like Hungary where you simply put a stick in the country and some thermal sources come out, but I think as a state we have a lot of thermal sources, that they are not used enough, that the degree of capacity utilisation of this natural resource is only about 10%, so I think that attracting foreign investors to develop as much as possible is very important. According to some data, Serbia could have about 300 bathrooms, and currently there are 39 with five air-conditioned. I would like to cite a classic but good example of using geothermal resources for citizens with the desire to be as many in Serbia as possible. It is the Hotel "Olymp" on Zlatibor, which is heated from nearby thermal water sites, located in 2009. The heating and cooling system of this water is operational from three years ago. About 160,000 euros were invested in its design and construction, and the return period of funds is between three and four years. A monthly savings of over 5,000 euros is realised in this way. The total thermal power that can be obtained using all existing thermal water sources is about 216 megawatts, equivalent to 180,000 tonnes of oil. Finally, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support both the Strategy and the new Mining and Geological Research Act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40399	The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, MP Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government and the ministry, Mr. Minister, citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, have repeatedly felt a devastating policy on their skin when we talk about energy and the wrong energy policy. When I say that first, I mean giving NIS to the Russian Federation and not only the refinery but also the beds, which is unremembered anywhere in the world. We had almost once again a new aspect of energy policy when "Electro Vojvodina" was shut down and an EPS under the cloak of some kind of reorganisation, with the aim of ensuing the losses of Serbia's EPS and of joining the EPS as the only profitable company. But let me get back to the law. The draft law on mining and energy development strategy for us and for LSV shows the continuations of the policy so far, and they relate to further centralisation, concerns taking account of the interests of exactly one of the investors, i.e. co-owners of NIS and relate to the non-compliance of our Strategy with the EU Strategy, i.e. European Energy Policy. As regards the Mining and Geological Research Act, decentralisation is not recognised as an essential condition, let alone one of the strategic conditions. In fact, the current Mining and Geological Research Act provides the possibility for Vojvodina to bring a plan of basic geological research into its territory for a certain period of time and so far. The new bill stipulates that Vojvodina or the Parliament, or the EP government of Vojvodina, only proposes a plan for basic geological research, which means that when a plan for basic geological research for the territory of the Republic of Serbia is drawn up, the proposed plans from Vojvodina can be ignored if someone in the RS government wants to do so. Thus, it is denied further one of the powers of the Vojvodina administration, it is unacceptable for us. Of course, we've given you the amendments you're going to consider and we'll see if you accept them. Also, the proposed area of the oil and gas exploration area means there would be only 17 spaces in Serbia, i.e. projects. If we compare the proposed surface area and the required number of projects to obtain a personal license, it turns out that the chance of a geologist for oil and gas is 50 times smaller than that of a geologist for other mineral raw materials, and even 2.5 thousand times smaller than a geologist who deals with non-metallic mineral raw materials. For this reason, reduce the proposed area of oil and gas exploration in this bill. The licensor should reduce the number of oil and gas projects from five to one. If we understand each other correctly. Namely, four investigation blocks without the South Banat bloc have been defined in Romania's Banat to the Plandišta. A total of three investigative blocks have been defined throughout Banat and northern, middle and southern Banat. Using Romania's criteria only in Banat should define eight to ten blocks to explore oil and gas. For example, Croatia has determined the area of research spaces from 2,100 to 2,600 square kilometers. What is important for the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, as well as for us from LSDV is the treatment of the famous energy agreement and what we have warned about and for years we have been calling for the revision of the famous energy agreement in the part of the mining rental. It is also important for us to allocate funds from the collection of resource exploitation funds, and we have suggested that a member of this law's compensation for the use of mineral resources and raw materials, the geothermal resources, the 20% would go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia 40% would be the income of the local self-government unit, 40% of the AP. Since each exploitation carries also the degradation of the exploitation surfaces as well as the destruction of the road infrastructure, i.e. a certain degree of distortion of living standards for the population, it is appropriate to distribute it in the way we have proposed it, because the funds achieved on the basis of the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials would then be intended to improve life in the local community. As for NIS and 7% mines, what would not be contrary to the energy agreement with Russia, because it would not be practically tax, but would be a fee for exploiting the mineral treasure, is further introducing some percentages for exploitation when it comes to NIS. Our proposal is to make the formulation so that it was not tax treatment, which based on what our lawyers say is possible for now, because it is not about tax change, as defined in the agreement, but on the compensation for the exploitation of the mine and another thing is the freezing of tax treatment in accordance with the energy agreement is valid in the period of reaching the economic viability of the project, which means if the project of investment in the mandatory investment of the Pančev Refinery has become profitable, this provision is no longer in force. The problem is that no methodology has been defined to determine the viability of the project that would be agreed between the states of the signatories of the agreement, so projects can be treated infinitely as invaluable even though the results of NIS operations in previous years show that the threshold of investment project viability has been exceeded. Since the Pancheva Refinery is proven to be profitable and now what we have in practice is an abnormal exploitation of domestic oil reserves. To remind the public, sometimes the exploitation of domestic oil reserves by NIS was about 20% to 30% from domestic reserves, and the rest was imported. Now it's in proportion 50-50. If the domestic reserves of oil and gas continue like this soon, we won't have all that in the period when NIS doesn't pay the mining rent, or how it pays in the home state, the owner of the majority. So we suggested introducing a progressive rate to speed up oil, oil and gas deposits. This exists as a solution in other European countries. So, if you exploit a percentage of your domestic reserves, you have to pay a higher rate of mine rent or whatever you want to call it. What also bothers us in this bill is the surface area of an investigative space ranging from two to 100 kilometers square, except for oil and gas. So the area of the exploitation field is going to be smaller. The area of the exploitation field of up to 100 hectares is identical to the area of one square kilometre and if we have a protection space of 2.5 thousand meters for an exploitation field of more than 100 hectares, the area of the protective space will be 2,400 hectares. For the space of protection, there is no provision for paying any compensation, and as can be calculated, the protection space is 24 times larger than the field of exploitation that fills the budgets of all levels of government, and a certain number of people are also employed. The explanation is that the protection space is needed for possible expansion of reserves and resources. It means that this way encourages the practical failure of jobs and in some ways ignorance, which in this case means that failure to do business gets legal protection. Serbia has been determined to deny itself in favour of practical ignorance without any compensation of 24 times the size of the area from which revenue is realised in the budget. In the surrounding countries it is differently arranged and there are several levels of fees to be paid. I'm going to re-cite the example of Croatia. Also, data and documentation can become state property on a number of grounds, so it is not necessary to define the basis for acquisition, especially if the budget is taken into account. If one of the objectives of the bill is to increase the budget inflow, this is an opportunity to settle it in the way that the EU also solves this problem. If compensations were charged in 2014, the 5th position itself would increase the RS budget's revenue by around 19.6 billion dinars, which I will remind you is greater than the total increase in salaries and pensions granted by the IMF for 2016. As regards the development strategy, the RS Energy Development Strategy until 2025 with projections by 2030, what we see as a problem is that as the basic year of data analysed and presented in 2010, which is not appropriate to the importance of documents. Any government that comes to power of course always thinks history begins with it. I don't think energy like that allows for a similar practice. Also, there is no connection in the initial part of the strategy's proposal for a strategy with the RS Energy Development Strategy by 2015. Then, a reference to the realization of the same and the guidance of changing strategic directions in the new document. Due to fundamental errors in the table, and it is very important that the geological reserves of fossil fuels related to the display of energy mineral raw materials as natural resources are not adequate. For example, the balance reserve of oil adopted in the National Strategy for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources and Goods, published in the Official Messenger 33/2012, amounts to 40.54 million tonnes and total geological reserves of 186,36 million tonnes. The proposal includes 10.14 million tonnes of oil reserves, and total geological reserves are 50 million tonnes. The same situation is with the coal reserves shown, when compared to the proposal for a strategy for managing the mineral resources of the Republic of Serbia by 2030, which is on the government of Serbia's website. The coal reserves in the tables are two to three times less than mentioned in the proposed strategy. These three documents do the same ministry, and they seem to have different data in them. I'll let you or your associates explain it. What we have given as objections concerns liberalisation, i.e. what will lead to competition on the electricity market. The objective of liberalisation should be to increase competition and service levels to final customers, while at the same time reducing prices. It would be significant, since it is predicted that the Republic of Serbia must find a way to participate in the realisation of electricity facilities in the AP Kosovo and Metohija, it would be good if the authors of the Strategy offered some of the ways they think to implement the said attitude. It is, of course, for every commendation, but it would be good if a little more was said on the subject. Chapter 5 does not contain a gas storage facility, Banatski dvor, when we know that a Banatski dvor gas storage facility can be squeezed daily by four to four and a half million cubic metres of gas, and the daily needs of the Republic of Serbia during the winter period are about 12 million cubic metres of gas. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think there might also be an additional explanation. Of course, we are also coming up with a project called South Stream, from which we learned there was nothing. The strategy's authors say it is necessary to provide a new natural gas supply route, with two billion euros invested by 2030, and nothing more. I think we should pay attention to what European energy policy is, i.e., as my colleague mentioned earlier, we have learned from the public information funds that the "LNG terminal" will be built in Croatia, which is practically part of the European Energy Strategy. For now, Serbia, as far as I'm aware, has nothing to do with it, nor is any connection planned to that side. The European Union is funding the project, i.e. project documentation. Maroš Šefčovic, who is the European Commissioner for Energy, also publicly supported US Vice-President Joe Biden, also supported the project. From the project, we understand, the gas will supply Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia and that connection goes all the way to Poland. I don't know why Serbia has never tried in any way to participate in the project, because it is of strategic importance for our gas supply, which, as far as we know, depends more on the Russian side's mercy or impassion and as far as the price is concerned, and as far as the supply direction is concerned, the South Stream has been officially cancelled. Now we've heard about "Turkish Stream". Because of some geopolitical reasons, it may also be nothing. So, within the Energy Development Strategy, it is essential for us to define such a thing more precisely and that citizens simply learn that, not this one, but all future governments think that they solve the continuous gas supply, which is the key energy, as for the population, and for the economy. We have made amendments to the bill and we hope that you will consider them. If you adopt them, I think it will significantly improve the law, but for now we can't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40401	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Kružević, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40402	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister, I won't be paying much attention, or after your presentation, to the draft law on mining and geological research, for the simple reason that you presented it greatly, so that we in Unique Serbia can only say that in the day of the vote we will give support to this law. As far as Serbia's Energy Development Strategy is concerned, I would like to say that it is a logical continuation of the Energy Act as an important strategic document. It is, of course, a sublegal act and represents a vision of the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia and a projection of how to obtain and produce energy over the next 10 years, with a projection by 2030. The strategy is in line with the new Energy Act, which has transposed a complete energy package into Serbian legislation, i.e. the third energy union package, and thus Serbia has become the only signatories of the Energy Community to implement the entire Energy Union package, which we have signed since 2005. Of course, that's what we had to do. I would like to point out once again that we did this first of all the signatories. The rule is, of course, that the strategy brings parallel to the Energy Act. The law was passed in December 2014 and is indeed a strategic act on energy and energy enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. The law has been done thoroughly and as a result of this fundamental work, we have received a law that has received a good reception from the Energy Community and the European Commission. As far as this law is concerned, we have already done, in 2015, the part relating to energy enterprises and we have entered into the restructuring of "Srbigas". The rule that the law and strategy go together has fallen out of the knowledge that it has given up the construction of the South Stream, which means that in the course of the creation of that strategy some changes have been made. This fact has defined in part a different strategy, which says that the energy sector is affected by political and geopolitical events, which is why, of course, priorities change. The strategy is technically realistic, as it relies on co-operation and energy resources in the region. So, over the next five years, and maybe ten years, as I said, no major transnational projects will be built. The "South Stream" has been suspended and the "North Stream 2" is now being built. What's a question that's just being imposed is -- what's unacceptable is working in Southeast Europe, it's great to work in northern Europe? It's a little illogical, but it's a reality we had to face. As far as the Energy Development Strategy itself is concerned, we have the view that it should be sought in its own potential and regional co-operation. Large projects such as "South Stream" do not exist. The Turkish flow has also been realistically inconclusive with developments in the last 15 days. Hence, the conclusion that it should rely on its own strength and strengthen co-operation in the region. Opening up to regional co-operation enables diversification of energy sources, more efficient solutions, better capacity utilisation and, as a consequence, gives a lower energy price. Everything contrary to this leads to energy crises and an increase in the price itself. Strategy in the field of electricity. Building energy facilities with neighbouring countries on water streams, interconnections and a better connection to Republika Srpska's electropotentials. Serbia, as you yourself said, must ensure stable and secure electricity production, although we have committed to producing 25% of renewable electricity by 2020. But what I want to point out is that electricity production is the only segment where we are masters of our own destiny in energy. I'll be free to find out there's no economic development based on the import current. Serbia must use all its coal. Serbia must use all its resources. What is encouraging is that Serbia has carbon reserves for the next 50 years. Much bigger, more developed countries and richer countries than Serbia will be left without that energy before Serbia and, of course, it is up to them to look for new models in electricity production, and it is up to us to fit in. Serbia must soon, when I say as soon as possible, think in the next ten years, build 700 to 1,000 megawatts of thermo potential and as much hydro. I just want to point out one fact that the potential of water flowing in the water streams in the Republic of Serbia is 25,000 gigawatt hours a year. These projects that exist, and you've talked about them yourself, they have to take it seriously, because I'm afraid they'll come back to us in the future as a problem that caused the boomerang effect. Of course, as regards the natural gas strategy, you mentioned the construction of the second part of the underground warehouse "Banatski dvor", as well as potentially two new gas storage facilities for Itebe and Tilvi, both in Banat. As far as other renewable sources are concerned, we have the construction of a interconnection towards Bulgaria, a potential interconnection towards Croatia. As for other renewable sources, on November 12th he was released to work and the first wind farm you opened in the municipality of Kula. The next wind farm is expected to be built in Vrsac. Of course, in this strategy, we must cover and we are expected to accept the EU's general objectives of increasing the share of renewable energy sources. Of course, the highest percentage of this energy is derived from hydroelectrics. For even more production, as I said, of those 25,000 gigawatt hours a year, we can use the potential in both Drina and Ibra and Morava. As another of the most important energy from renewable sources, and to think about the future, is biomass, which is certainly one of the most inexorable potentials and that resource, according to estimates, there are 3,405 million tonnes of oil equivalent in Serbia, which is, you will agree with me, a huge amount. Of course, as for the EU, they also insist on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I wouldn't talk too much about it, but what I want to read, if I didn't say otherwise, is one statement just by Minister Antić, who says first of all should put a responsible attitude to the environment, in terms of the use of fossil fuels and new technologies that need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and environmental pollution. That's exactly what I was talking about. We need to make the most of our capacity. We need to use the maximum production of that dirty energy, but also to invest resources to avoid polluting the environment. I also mention something I talked about and when it was said about the Energy Act in December 2014, which is that big, industrial Germany uses 70% of its electricity production right out of coal, so we don't have to be absolutely afraid of it and we need to use these resources as much as possible. Of course, what awaits us through these EU targets is energy savings. Energy efficiency is a novelty for us in Serbia. The paper requires certain investments, but, generally, it opens up new prospects. When we talk about new opportunities, I only think about opening up production related to new construction and, let's say, bringing into a more efficient role the energy and efficiency of old objects, so I expect some new jobs in Serbia and opening up in that industrial branch, which is important for us from JS and how important and I am sure that the president of our party Dragan Markovic Palma will be able to bring some investors in the next period to deal with this work. I am also sure that we will also work to open our businesses, so that we can be competitors to foreign producers and not only to be competitive in our country, but also to be competitive in both European and global markets, so that we can increase exports a little bit. Finally, to conclude that the strategy is really a list of what needs to be done in the next period. After the adoption of the strategy, it is a very important issue how it will be implemented, so it is expected to create a realistic timetable for the implementation of the strategy, so that the strategy would, of course, not only remain a wish list. Given the importance of this strategic document and the strategic targets of energy development defined by it, the JS parliamentary group will vote in the voting day to give this strategy a chance and support it. Of course, once again, JS will vote for both points of today's united debate in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40403	I thank you, Mr. Kruzhevich. The word is by MP Branko Karavidic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, the Mining and Geological Research Act is extremely important, since it defines an area that should be a very important business branch. This strategic activity today contributes to GDP by about 2%. The development of Serbia's mining sector would undoubtedly be a strong support for overall economic development if the state knew that it values its very rich natural resources, carefully and with due care and attracts investors involved in research and exploitation of mineral raw materials. Today, there are more than two and a half thousand beds of mineral raw materials in Serbia, and besides metal and non-metallic, there are coal, oil and gas, so there are 46 base coals, of which 13 are exploited. Carbon reserves are estimated at 13 billion tonnes, oil is located in 90 ore fields, 250 are lying in oil shale, about 20 seats in Serbia. It's estimated that their amount is about five billion tons. The copper ore reserves in Bor and Majdanpek are enough to produce in the next 50 years. As mining research requires large financial and technical resources, only large companies can provide it. So Serbia is rich in mineral resources, very attractive to foreign investors who want to do research and exploit ore. Is our country aware of its natural wealth? How does he treat his wealth? Is there a strategy for the use of mineral raw materials? Does it have a valid and clear regulatory framework? What does the state do to develop and strengthen an institutional framework that would follow all of this? What are the objections of potential investors? They concern economic and legal uncertainty, a legislation that often changes, and they want simple procedures, transparency in licensing, non-discrimination of potential investors, an up-to-date and responsible administration. And what do we want and how do we do it? We know that our potential for mineral raw materials is great, but we are not adopting a strategic document that will help us manage mineral raw materials properly. In 2012, the Belgrade Faculty of Geology worked on Serbia's mineral resource management strategy until 2030. Why wasn't she adopted by the government and sent to the Assembly? Who's responsible for the fact that this strategic document is in the Ministry and hasn't been released into adoption procedure for, like, three years? We hear from the authorities these days that by the end of 2015, a strategy for managing Serbia's mineral resources will be adopted at the government by 2030. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? Is that the same strategy from 2012 whose construction was paid to the Mining Geological Faculty? Why didn't the strategy first be adopted, followed by the adoption of laws and sublegal acts? It was logical to do so, but, unfortunately, it wasn't. In light of this law, it is said that the basis for the draft law is in the action plan for the implementation of the national Sustainable Development Strategy for Serbia from 2009 to 2017. I'm not underestimating this document at all, but I'm asking what the ministry has been doing, or the government this three years? Why is the basis of this law not a strategy for managing mineral raw materials or the resources of Serbia by 2030? However, the answer was somehow imposed on me if we knew who our mining minister was at the time. The minister at the time had quite another affinity. He wasn't doing his job, but he was heartily pushing for the eternal dream of all Serbs, which is the Channel Danube-Morava-Wardar-Egey Sea. He obsessively sought partners in distant China, allegedly arranged a feasibility study to build a channel. That, Mr. Minister, is one of the reasons the Serbian government has not adopted the strategy so far. The Minister's focus was on the other side. An important law on mining and geological research was adopted in November 2011, the necessary sublegal act was to be adopted within two years, in order for the law to experience its full application. Why did 32 sublaws only bring eight when the deadline for their work was the end of 2013? Who's responsible for not bringing in more than 20 sublegal acts? Has anyone consciously obstructed the adoption of sublegal acts to pass a new law, or is it something else? How can the government assess the effects of the existing law when it has practically not come to life? The senseless charges were made in an explanation for the adoption of this bill, I quote, that it did not come to life because most of the sublegislative acts were to be brought by the ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks, instead of the ministry in charge of geological research. I would remind you that at the time of the adoption of the applicable law, the competent ministry was the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, which means that the law was employed by the ministry's employees in charge of the mining sector. After the May elections in 2012, it was logical that the remaining sublegal acts were made, it was logical that everyone was doing their job, and the Minister in charge of mining, whatever his name was then called the ministry, and perhaps the law was changed only because he was made up by a ministry that had an inadequate name for some. I hope, Mr. Minister, how to have an energy resistor, that you do not expect the sublegal acts arising from this law to work precisely for the energy sector. Why is it that, in fact, a new law is passed when more than 80% of the existing solutions are incorporated into the proposal for a new law, only they are reformed, some are even identical? The applicable law is in line with all EU directives, the procedures in the proposal for a new law are identical to those in force. The same are the fees for using mineral raw materials and not counting further. I also see what good solutions are in this bill, but they could only be the subject of amending the law, because the essence is practically prescribed. All of the above leads me to question the true intentions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether the adoption of a new law aims to ensure that citizens' interests, and thus also to undermine the interests of investors and those who did not work in the previous period in accordance with the law. In fact, the provision of the existing law, which was passed in 2011, was for the first time defined that the investor of geological research rights must implement a minimum of 75% of projected works for the first three years, thus obtaining the possibility to extend the rights to research for two more research periods of two years, making the total time of detailed geological research at a maximum of seven years. As some investors failed to comply with the law of defined obligations, the realization of a minimum of 75% of planned works, instead of taking away their rights to research, the Government's proposal for a new law on mining and geological research intends to allow those who did not respect the law to have the right to manage, in some way, the resources that I recall under the Constitution, the ownership of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With this bill, the government will allow the company's right to go to detailed geological research from the current seven years to practically 12 years. In January 2012, the first solutions for detailed geological research were issued, under the existing law, and this right lasted until January 2015, instead of granting investors who did not carry out a minimum 75% of the projected research research, the Ministry of Mining and Energy right throughout 2015 to other companies that applied for research rights in the same research areas, or to take away the rights of companies that did not work in accordance with the law. The ministry of the same company, without any legal basis, rewards another investigative year. The government of the Republic of Serbia is even more generous. It, by means of a bill of law, rewards the same company with eight more years of rights to use the mineral resources of our country. I ask – why is it that the existing law was not respected, and what is the guarantee that the one that is now on the agenda will be respected? Therefore, such a long period of geological research does not exist in any European country, especially if investors have no obligation to make and exploit mineral raw materials, i.e. resources. Such a bill allows the government to speculate on various global markets with natural capital and national treasures of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is exclusively in the interest of private companies, mostly foreign, contrary to the interests of our country. Such a bill sets out the interest of citizens of Serbia, the interests of poor investors, and unfortunately this is how high-quality and responsible investors with speculators and investors who have failed to meet their legal obligations. These personal interests of individuals and the partial interests of reception companies are placed above national and state. Would all of this be clearer if it were proposed only amendments and additions to the law? Of course you would. Another one of the regrets is that local administrations are deprived of jurisdiction by this bill. The reasons for eliminating local self-government in the bill are to explain that local administrations are doing their tasks in a very small number, around 20% of local administrations have accepted this, that they are uninterested, that this will allow faster and more efficient application of the law, that procedures will be accelerated and so on. The interest, Mr. Minister, is that every local administration knows what is happening in its territory and in the area of geological research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, if it is true that there are more than 300 illegal and wild sites on Serbian territory from which mineral raw materials are exploited, the interest of every municipality in whose territory it is done is, of course, to prevent and sanction such phenomena. You'll say this is the subject of a mining inspection and of course it is, but the number of mining inspectors is negligible compared to the number of illegal and arrogant users of these resources. If we are all on our way to the EU, strengthening and developing both republican and local institutions, this entrusted business should be promoted among local administrations. Why not encourage the association of local administrations that may have been able to jointly take over trusted jobs. The provisions of the applicable law refer to local self-government units as a step towards decentralisation. With this proposal, you're taking local administrations one step back. Most of our amendments again involve local administrations in the procedures prescribed by this bill. By accepting some of them, you would return to trusted business to local administrations. They would thus increase the management capacity of natural capital, which is located on their territory, speed up the development of the green budget of local communities, increase the economic potential of municipalities and cities. It is unacceptable, Mr. Minister, for mineral raw materials users to be allowed by law to postpone any debt collection and on the basis of the use of mineral raw materials. For any possible debt by any company, a debt reprogramme could be made with payment dynamics. Putting into the law a formulation, a way of paying compensation and conditions of postponing debt on the basis of a fee closer to the government, is simply inadmissible, as it practically stimulates and encourages financial indiscipline and thus opens up a space for corruption. Speaking of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, what is the rate of charge this year and last year? What about local administrations that plan these revenues into their budgets, and they don't come true, because individual businesses and mines haven't been paying fees in local budgets for years, even in the republican budget, because they're in restructuring. Is there a state record of how much debt is owed to the Serbian budget, as well as to municipalities across Serbia? What is the fate of this debt? Local self-government with these problems cannot realise their local plans. Local administrations are also more concerned after Minister Kori Udovicki's announcement that transfers to municipalities and cities in the 2016 budget will be reduced. Unfortunately, with this current treatment of the republican government towards municipalities, the least fortunate are those who have resources in their territories that are practically of no use at all, on the contrary. Mr. Minister, Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party "Together for Serbia" -- Green Serbia, will not vote for this law. Our proposal is to withdraw this bill from the procedure, complete the production of sublegal acts, and thus remove any suspicion of this government's ill intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40405	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40406	First of all, I want to thank all the participants in the discussion so far. When it comes to Mr. Zoltan Peck, concerning the amendments submitted by the SVM, it is the Ministry's position, and it will be proposed at tomorrow's cabinet session, that two amendments, related to the authority of the AP Vojvodina, be accepted. That amendment to the schedule in the rent itself is not possible for us to accept at this time. We gave an explanation, and from later discussions it was precisely seen that my position was entirely correct. We had a proposal and SVM that this schedule goes into distribution that 100% goes to local self-government, Mr Stojsic suggested that 40% to local self-governments, 40% to the AP Vojvodina, 20% to the Republic of Serbia and I repeat, the adoption of the law on fees will be the right place and time to conduct a serious debate on all these fees, and for this very reason the Ministry of Finance and prepares such a bill. When it comes to Mr. Marinkovic, he is not here right now, but I will take the opportunity to comment on the three issues he has asked, related to the justice of gas supply. As I said, at this point we only have that connection with Hungary, through which we provide total amounts of gas for Serbia, it is a transit of Russia – Ukraine – Hungary – Serbia. What is our priority, it is a gas interconnection with Bulgaria and the project is in those top six EU priorities. So CESEC has identified priority projects. The first priority in these projects is Greece-Bulgaria Interconnection, the second priority is Bulgaria-Serbian Interconnection. Among these priority projects is the EU's support for the LNG Terminal Krk project, but there is no interconnection between Croatia and Serbia. We, I repeat, are closely monitoring all these gas projects aimed at bringing some new amounts of gas into this part of Europe. We as a state and as a society of great energy devoted to the realisation of the South Stream, this project has been halted and we are now trying to impose a new view of all that from the point of view that Serbia should actively participate and monitor the implementation of all projects. For this reason, Serbia is providing a constructive approach with Greece – Hungary, Hungary and Austria, regarding the Tesla project itself, but we are trying to make contact with these interconnections, above all with Bulgaria, to the Tanap and Tap projects that bring gas from this Caspian base, which can bring tomorrow potentially Iranese gas, gas from Turkmenistan, as well as a project that has to do with possible LNG terminals, primarily those in Greece. Related to LNG terminal in Krk. Someone here mentioned that all the countries are planning to supply themselves through it, it's a completely wrong approach, and I don't know where from a respected colleague, I think Stojsic, that kind of information. The capacity of that terminal, which will be floating, will seem to me to be a maximum of 5.6 billion metres of cubic gas. These really are not serious amounts of gas to supply Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland. It's an entirely random story. These quantities through LNG terminals in Krk can be interesting but cannot be interesting from the point of view of the serious supply of none of these countries in the environment. At this point, we do not have any project to prepare with Croatia, building an interconnection for two reasons. The first reason is simply, you know what priorities are. Priority is Bulgaria and the second reason that there are real problems with Croatia that all have to do with the implementation of the interconnection projects themselves. In line with the European Commission and Energy Community policy, interconnections are a two-way gas communication between the two neighbouring countries. Croatia does not want to build interconnections of a two-way character, but only one supply direction. For this reason, Hungary also has a major problem in realising its interconnection with Croatia, which is part of these projects already. So we follow what's done on Krka. Any amount of gas that will enter this region and which can improve the situation on the market, because I deeply believe that the market is the only answer to the issues of energy stability, security and demonopolisation that should provide even more favourable prices for citizens, every project we support and we will make a contribution to everything to the extent that we can. For us, however, it is the priority of this arm from Bulgaria and we are working seriously with both the European Commission and the Energy Community and our Bulgarian partners. When it comes to mandatory reserves, yes, as counterpart Marinkovic said, we have completed the action plan, but what has been done in parallel with this, and what is significant is the fact that we have already set out to create mandatory reserves, that, in accordance with this dynamic and long-term creation plan of mandatory reserves, we are in 2015, i.e. rounding up a mandatory reserve of oil for nine days as agreed, I repeat, with the European Commission and the Energy Community. I thank Mrs. Filipovski for her support of the law. Regarding what I have managed to find as a possible remark is related to mining projects, plans and sketches that are related to companies with majority government capital where we are asking them to surrender to the custody of the competent state authority. We have a right to do that because it's state property. When private mines are involved in these plans and complete documentation is private property and is held as private property, even though my associates explained to me that we had no space of that kind. With counterpart Stojsic, unfortunately or not, the biggest segment of the remarks absolutely disagrees. First of all, I do not see in any way the seriousness of any claim that the Serbian government is leading any discriminatory policy towards the AP Vojvodina. To ask for an argument in the fact that the company Elektro Vojvodina, which has been in place and has always been in the EPS, has entered into another organisational form, is completely unfounded and malicious, especially when we take into account the fact that the headquarters of significant energy companies is just located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and no one has ever politicized it in this way. I would like to remind you that the headquarters of the "Serbian Gas" in Vojvodina is. I would remind myself that the headquarters of Serbia's Oil Industry is in Vojvodina, and no one in Serbia has ever politicised it, and I don't know how that idea of the fact that the Elektro Vojvodina within the EPS is entering another system of organisations that I absolutely claim is serious, responsible, long-term important to the citizens of Serbia and Vojvodina in a way that you obviously cannot recognize it. Today to find such a thesis is completely, I repeat, politically unacceptable and irresponsible and does not go in the direction of creating a healthy climate and atmosphere in which we, believe me, work with the provincial Energy Secretariat and they are part of a wider energy team and all working groups that participated in everything, including law and strategy. When it comes to the geological research plan. Well, that's where we're getting along. So, when it comes to the geological research plan, we will accept your amendments and these amendments will become part of the text. When it comes to an agreement with the NIS, he was brought in 2008 and he is who he is. It's not like you read it, and we don't have a chance to baptize it differently so we can increase it. I will read for the Assembly and for the citizens of Serbia. That agreement in Article 13 says about three things. The first thing is that we cannot worsen the operating conditions of the oil industry of Serbia. The second is that we cannot do this until we reach the cost of projects, or investment. Thirdly, it lists what is meant by these deteriorations of the terms and conditions and says very precisely – under the deterioration of taxation conditions for the purpose of this Agreement, the introduction of (constitution), new taxes, taxis, customs duties and/or other similar duties, the increase in tax rates of fees and customs duties and/or other and similar duties. So, approximately very precisely defined that anything from the domain of tax, taxi, fee cannot be additionally introduced. When it comes to the data contained in the gas-related strategy for the quantities of gas and oil, that's the data we received from the Regional Secretariat of Natural Resources and I absolutely believe that they are correct. When it comes to data related to coal and other segments, it's data from our secretariat and they're the result of either certified reserves or balances that I absolutely don't doubt. When it comes to gas storage, I'm just asking that we understand each other. I agree with you that a warehouse of 450 million cubic metres should be increased and that is why we are working to expand the special storage facilities of Banatski Dvor, but no country in the world has ever built storage facilities for its total annual needs. It's just impossible for us to do it now, for us, for God's sake, gas consumption to come out at three and a half billion cubic meters in 2030. It just doesn't make sense that we're all three and a half billion cubic metres of storage here. Investments in these warehouses, storage, to that extent would be expensive, using that gas, to make gas from one energy that should be favourable and used for industrial purposes for heating, would get it to be completely commercially invaluable. We have at this point a study of justification, we believe in that 800 million to a billion. This already requires an additional analysis for Itebej, an additional assessment of whether this gas can be used, I repeat for commercial needs and for Serbia to be a hub for supplying both Republika Srpska and BiH and other surrounding countries. Serbia has this imbalance in gas consumption throughout the season. It goes from a few million cubic metres in the summer period, which is mostly for industry and certain remote systems that deliver to citizens warm water in apartments, mostly about nine to ten million metres of cubic gas per day in winter conditions, to a maximum of 12 million that go to those extremely cold ice days. Simply, in such situations, these storage facilities do not target that highest point, but generally go to this middle point, to make the system optimal. It's like dimensional traffic. Neither do you dimensional it to a minimal amount of traffic, nor can you dimensional it to the maximum, but to the optimal, as well as in this segment. I thank Mr Kružević for his support of both the law and the strategy. When it comes to this set of remarks by Mrs. Karavidic, I really heard them. First of all, it's a well-known handwriting, we all know it. I have to say that it's one set, in my humble opinion, arbitrary estimates that have no basis in either segment or law, or what I believe you have absolutely responsible and seriously approached and brought it out. First, if I understand correctly, the biggest observation is why the 2011 law has not been implemented until the end. It's really not a question for me and the representatives of this team. Whether this law was good or not, I am not now so professional, nor am I giving myself the role of judge to evaluate it, but to this existing law, or to this day the existing law, was a lot of objections both from professional circles and from industrial circles, and it was, above all, indisputable as if we were changing it. You are in one segment of shade right. Our first idea was indeed to make amendments and amendments to the law, but the percentage of amendments and additions to the law was such that the Republic Secretariat of legislation asked it to turn into a new law and we turned it into a new law. We weren't pretentious, nor vain that those members of the existing law that were good de facto passed into new law. We took advantage of the old law of everything that was good, and what we changed, we changed it, and believe me, I am absolutely convinced that we have changed in the interest of Serbian citizens, in the interest of new investment in mining, not in the interest of any investor. We've just introduced capital changes in relation to the mining rent. You probably weren't in the O.R. or you weren't listening very well, from December 2006 to October 2015... Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac, for taking care of my time... 26 billion are charged, of which in 2014 and 2015 12 billion. At the time of 2011, when some others were in charge of the mining rent, and perhaps they were writing you some suggestions for your discussion, the charge was about two billion. There were debts at the time. Last year's bill was 7 billion. So, in a situation where debts have arisen and accumulated, we have no other solution than to try to collect them. Since we can't charge them at once, then we're trying to charge them through a certain reprogramme and it's responsible behavior for us as governments and us as ministries. Finally, I really believe that this government has absolutely one decent, responsible and fair relationship to Serbia's future and that this law is going in that direction. Any kind of attitude is entirely one political story, which for me is absolutely unfounded, and I was hoping we wouldn't politicize here today. If the time in which others were engaged before Mr. Bačević was good for mining, we would have some investment in that time. At that time, I'd get a story from someone close to opening a mine. Since there was nothing in that time, then let us judge our results after some things have been realized. I, as someone who has somehow been in some ruling structure and these years, and now, I just have to appeal that we have one responsible relationship with assessing things, not that it's one politicization and most often and unfortunately, just a political issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40407	Thank you. (Branka Karavidić, from town: Replica. ) No, the minister summed up every exhibit. So he didn't answer anyone individually in such a way as to cause a replica. This is what the minister used to say, take the stenogram - you are, well, in your presentation, in your presentation, you are no misunderstanding. He understood you all. If it wasn't for understanding, I'd have let you have a conversation. But he understood you and answered you. He answered seven discussions. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40408	Thank you. The bill, which is before us, on mining and geological research, should give us in dialogue with the minister, but primarily for all in Serbia the answer to three important questions. It would have been nice if the minister had proposed the law the way I suggest. Maybe he listens to the game of cases this time. It's a case and that game, it's a miracle. So if there are two laws at a close time distance, as is the case with these two laws, then it's important for everyone to be absolutely clear what the difference is, what it is in this law compared to the previous, as much of the matter in the law. I don't think it was necessary to amend or supplement or a new law, both ideas are legitimate, but I think it's important to make it absolutely clear what the reason for the new law is and what it is is that a key change is in relation to the existing law. What we are offered is a description of how different concepts will be solved within the Mining and Geological Research Act, but it is not that accent – and what is different. So what's the idea when we look at the law? The minister will agree or challenge what's different. There are two or three EU directives that we directly transpose into our legislation. That's the first thing. The terms are defined differently. To me, it remained unclear, comparing the 2011 law and this, what are the competences of the Geological Institute, or the Institute, then and now? It would be good to hear a few words about it. In defining or in terms of terms, I miss words – oil flush. The explanation that the definition in the article implies oil flushing did not seem sufficient to me on the Committee. But, by the way, our committee session was a pretty sad event, so I wouldn't refer to an attempt at dialogue with the Ministry's representatives. It is the responsibility of the Assembly, to allow such a thing to happen on the Committee on European Integration, as we have allowed. But by chance, that's the way it has to be now. People don't like, they don't understand what the role of the executive government is, and what the role of MPs is and what the minister can do, and what any representative of the ministry can't do in the nature of things. But it's to the side. So why the new definitions? How does the profession tell the lawyers, and the lawyers to us, that the oil spill can be seen in today's definition? For me, an important issue that is left unexplained, consistent with the ministerial perceptions that mining and geological research and environmental protection have a problem at the level of legitimacy, but also have a problem at the level of communication or economy, I am someone who is committed to protecting the environment, but I am certainly not someone who will not understand what it means to be exhausted, inexhaustibility and sustainable exploitation of resources in the environment. As it says here, how you look at the law that is now in force, the previous law and this one, and this law plans to be damage, or it remains unclear, therefore, that there will have to be recovery, recreation and so on. When you tell us at the same time and that hopefully we will open chapters concerning and protecting the environment and therefore you are talking about energy efficiency and when you talk about our assumed commitment to energy renewable sources, then it is not going to be that you have a law to say – well, we will now continue to degrade the environment, because we do not know otherwise. Except that's not true, it remains unclear in this law what it means. One part of the previous law that you passed, which was inadmissible to me, and at the time when the previous law was passed, and then it was explained to me that this had to be because not all the provisions of the strike law were agreed on, are members of the definition of strike from 154 to 156 and criminal provisions for the crime of strike. I am then, and now I have a serious objection as to why the Mining and Geological Research Act takes into account the miners' own self-steering. Only they are subject to the provisions of the strike, and the minister is talking to us with the right to both oil and gas and coal, that it is research. So it's not just the miners, and the provisions apply only to them. The explanation during the previous law-making process was that all the provisions of the law were not in line, and now they are in line. Therefore, I find it inadmissible to remain a member to organise or participate in the conduct of strikes in cave rooms or other facilities and premises referred to in Article 55(2) of this Act will be punished by imprisonment from one to five years. You can't punish the strike by law, because you have the Strike Act, especially not this way, because in article 155, not only mention the cave rooms, but all other rooms. I also asked all of this on the Committee on European Integration and the Ministry's representative told me that this applies to meth pits, that I can't read. So I would ask you to spare me such an answer, if that is your intention to explain to me what is meant or to give me an amendment to mention the meth pits because we read the law, based on what we read and ask. What about the fees, at last? In the previous law, you have fees for geological research. In the presentation of the law, the minister tells us that compensations for geothermal resources go into water, that is, that all fees go to the Law on Refunds, and it calls for the suspension of compensation. It's removing the tax definition from this law, but it's not erasing fees as such. Whether or not it's going to be in the Compensation Act and whether or not we're going to see this law for mining and geological research by the end of the year, of course, I don't know how to judge it. I suppose the idea of how to make unique compensations in the Law on Compensation will not go to harm those who need to make revenue from compensation, and then those in local self-government, in Vojvodina, at the level of the Republic, which from these fees should make something of revenue based on their own plans. The conflict of the environment, i.e. the basic parameters of environmental protection and mining, is often thought to be because the economy wants to do some work for people to earn, to keep people busy, to exploit the ore, not to give as guards. I think that this is a profoundly wrong approach and that we should not separate any sector that depletes any natural resources from the environmental protection area, especially because a lot of it, which is the result of working to protect the environment, is also in a strategy that the minister, not without pride and no reason to be proud of this document, has presented here. Why do I say that? Because we're talking about renewable energy sources, we're talking about the commitments we've made, but we're not going to say that renewable energy sources, that energy efficiency commitments go to the burden or budgets of the Republic of Serbia or the pockets of citizens. I think it's bad that we don't want to talk about it, like it's bad that we don't want to talk about there's no investors in mining, in research, in whatever research you want, in which you don't want an incentive from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's the time we live. If we say that the renewable energy sources that I am, I wasn't up for this deadline, I was up for the longer term, but I stayed in the minority, so it's not unusual for me, I don't have a problem being in the minority, and if I know I'm right, if we're going to have renewable energy by 2023 or 2025, that we're going to cut the show, then we need to know that we're talking to people in Serbia what that means? This means that Serbia's budget will, again of all of us, have to invest in these kinds of energy. If we're talking about energy efficiency, because we have the most polluting part of the shed, because we're heating up on coal, solid fuels and so on, then to explain that, energy efficiency, we now have no easy potential to give people favourable loans from the budget, so they can carry out their legal obligations regarding energy conservation. It is not a reduction of the merits that the government has in this area, this minister or anyone or any previous government. This is something that we will not talk about when we talk about the energy balances of the future and I find it terribly wrong because when the Energy Development Strategy is proposed, when we share with people the commitments we have made for Serbia's energy future, then it is an obligation to say how much it costs, who will pay it, and that goes from the budget of all of us, because otherwise there is no. This sends a message that investors are somehow a magical solution that will make for us both renewable sources and geological research and eventually privatise what is now state, when it comes to mines, open new mines. Not without us, we'll all be there, if we're lucky to have an investor, and we'll see how much I decide to encourage him or help him per employee or whatever contract he has with the future investor. So, to conclude, we would like the members of the strike to be left out of this law, as are left out of other laws, especially a member who is being threatened with prison, for the simple reason it is unnecessary. It represents a relapse because of what was in the previous law, I also know how, because it was an explanation that it was a 1991 strike law when such a provision was put in place for Albanians who were strikers in caves, so I ask you to gather ourselves together with reality and with the time in which we now live and it would be a good explanation on these four simple questions. So, are there, if there are, what are the differences in the jurisdiction of the Geological Institute, or the Institute? Does the minister feel that oil flush is well represented by a description that treats waste management? How does the minister feel that it is possible for investors, without intervention from the budget, to access research and purchases or start work of mines? A question I didn't specifically mention, which is the strategy of this government. There is no way of knowing what to resent, and that is the reason for the virtually local self-government to be left out of this process. It remains for the dilemma, I would like to hear from the minister why this solution now, given that on the Committee on European Integration we first received the answer that there were only five-six municipalities, which is also unacceptable, you know, to have a representative come to you, so that you ask how many and how with municipalities there were, when it comes to the request for geological research or anything, he says – there were five-six, and then we hear that there were no five-six, but that there was a list that could be delivered to us. I'm not asking to get a list, I'm asking to hear from you the argument, if that's okay. What is the key to deciding that local self-government should be left out? It works for you, much more than it does for me, because I don't want it to remain a shadow of doubt that it's because of the famous conflicts between local self-government and investors, when it comes to geological research of nickels and similar semi-incidents, without dialogue, processes concerning minerals, mineral management and permission for geological research. I would also like that, if it could, the ministers who have laws that will be applied, if they remain in this form for five, seven, ten or 15 years from today, that the negotiations and the opening of chapters go, and that's clear, not because that's what the minister would say if it wasn't applied it wasn't my fault, not that, but because we need to share with the citizens awareness of what the process is, how long the process of European integration and what it means for the law that we're passing. You can offer us more laws from that area. What it means is that some members only take effect when jobs are done, so it can be in five, seven, 15, or even 30 years. And to repeat, do not leave out that renewable energy sources, that the transition to a renewable energy source, that clean energy, that investors investing in clean energy, will always have part of the total total money from the budget. That's how green energy works. Whether it's right or not, it's not a subject, but it's good for citizens to know, because it's about their, our, our, the common money, that they know that if something is given as an incentive, that it's given with a great idea and a plan that we all live in a healthier environment and by the rules of those in whose society we want to join in full EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40409	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40410	Thank you. I thank Mrs. Komic for this set of suggestions, remarks and suggestions. I thought that in what Mr. Sutanovac would say, not so short of an opening, I was able to point out, precisely all the differences that are crucial, regarding the new law, or the previous one. Chuck, I've been taxing, I think, 30 items, that's one thing. Next, we've been considering your amendment to the oil flush, and we'll accept that amendment, thanks for that remark. When it comes to local self-government, we haven't abolished jurisdiction from the mining domain by local self-government. So, connecting it to the situation, local self-government and nickel doesn't exactly stand, because local self-government never had any connection or authority regarding raw materials like nickel. They were able to participate from the point of view, I don't know, the spatial plan, the detailed regulation plan and similar issues, but from the point of view of granting permits for investigative or exploitation activities it was never in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but only in the jurisdiction of the Ministry. What has indeed been taken away from local self-government is the competences of research, primarily building materials, for the reason that: under one, we did not have an overview of it, under two, not all local self-governments did so and under three, inspection supervision of it absolutely did not exist. So, de facto we think that this provision and putting it in the jurisdiction of the Ministry and the construction inspection and the mining inspection of our ministry will establish one new control over it. Because it seems to me that there are a lot of abuses in the construction system, and I think there are a lot of completely illegal and unreported exploits going on right now as we talk about it, and that in a system like this, no one attaches adequate importance to it and that no one is involved. I believe that now that it takes over, first of all, our inspection will introduce one additional and new control. Which, I just remind you, we are notifying local self-government and local self-government by the Ministry has one full overview of all those activities carried out on their territory, and that the ministry has given adequate permission and adequate approval. When it comes to the Mining Geological Institute, above all, these powers are an increase in the segment of geological gambling where they will be an institution that makes, I say, a map, a map of above all those sites where there is geological gambling. They wrote it all to me but it's not so clear, so maybe I'll take a little longer or in some next answer. When it comes to strike, in principle the provisions of the previous law have been transposed and, above all, those provisions apply to those cave rooms, with methane, other flammable gases, dangerous coal dust, oil and gas fields, meaning those segments in which any strike can be maintained, any suspension of work to endanger human health. What Mrs. Komic can promise you, we will give until tomorrow's session of the government at which the amendment will be discussed to go through once more in detail each of these members and to fully consider the amendment, as well as everyone else, but the one with special attention. Have you looked at Articles 177 and 178? - Okay, we'll look at it one more time and we'll talk about the amendments in the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40411	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40412	Dear Chairman, Honorable Minister Antić, fellow MPs, these legal solutions today when we talk about the Mining and Geological Research Act we practically interrupt a legal vacuum, which has been the government since 2011, the first solution for the mining area was 1994, and the second we had in 2011. It is obvious that after 2012, when the SNS committed the government along with the SPS, there were attempts to continue through certain legal acts, i.e. fully enforce the law. However, through European means of determining the strategy in general and the Government of Serbia's policy towards European integration, it is obviously necessary to create a modern new law that will also be in line with EU energy policy, but also with European integration and all the chapters that we need to open. Thus, the Mining Act apparently experienced its new suit, since it is obvious that certain changes and additions could not satisfy all the standards that we now need to adapt to and our legislation. It is therefore entirely for the reason that today we have a new draft law on mining, and I will thank you in general Mr Antić and the Ministry for your participation in the work of the Parliamentary Forum for Energy Policy, namely informal parliamentary groups, in which there are representatives of many committees that claim energy policy at all. So we devoted a forum to this law in general, where they were representatives of the NIS and of the EPS and of your ministry, as well as certain companies that had just had certain requirements for mining. We have translated this into certain amendments, us several MPs who were present until the end and stayed in this debate. I see that these amendments will be accepted, especially when predecessors spoke about the width of the field of exploitation. We've suggested a much smaller width, then a part that refers to mining work, especially when it comes to drilling and those related to oil and gas and the part that concerns lead and zinc. I think it was probably a technical failure that was forgotten to be included in the strategic raw materials of the Republic of Serbia. What I was going to say is that with this law, a little bit of liveliness so that it wouldn't be dry, it just defines this whole area that has not been defined yet. When certain sublaws with local investor self-government push between local self-government and the ministry to walk several times, you simply come into a situation that as a state you send a message that investors have big problems if they want to deal with that activity at all. So foreign and domestic investors in this area have indeed welcomed these legal solutions, and that is what is very important, especially when it is said that the ministry is making decisions and approvals for research rights, and of course the ministry will not be able to make a decision unless there are urban plans in local self-government and there are no environmental impact assessments that will simply respond to any investor's elaborate that wants to get permission. Only in the third degree of decision can the ministry grant approval. What's good is that natural persons now appear for the first time as title holders of a requirement when it comes to obtaining certain permits. For example, there are individuals who want to explore in a certain way the gold that exists in certain water streams in small quantities. They may want to explore something that relates to certain parts of less production, which would be in the domain of smaller businesses, that is, shops that deal with this kind of business. Therefore, you are now sending a message to this law, that even the individuals who may have actually been engaged, some families located in the eastern part of Serbia, known to have certain gold sites, may be able to actually report to local self-government today and in a certain way to obtain approval for such a job. He won't be in violation of anyone who wants to deal with this activity. So now, for the first time, you have that debt-solving question. So no one here wants to talk about how the mines owe a great billion to Serbia's budget. These vast billions in a certain way, if you don't mention them in the law, they won't be charged and there's no way essentially for you to get into the debt reprogramme. So this is what you're essentially binding on, that financial debts won't go out of date, and even if it's "Parmacom" and "Bor", so it's something to praise, it's especially commendable to other investors who have to pay and who, for example, have paid their fees, or so on. ore rents. What's very interesting? It's interesting that certain research can't be easily predicted. For example, there are companies, we heard it at the forum, which for seven years have invested in research and spent $65 million on research, and only in the eighth year have they come into the situation that they've discovered certain sites and that you're now going into exploitation you need to have very good documentation and you need to make bank guarantees where investment capital for the mine's opening is not below $500 million, and it even goes to a billion if it's bigger beds. Therefore, these are investments of strategic importance for RS and I think that you are really opening up this law to give research rights to those companies who will be in a position to obtain all this documentation, to pay, to fill Serbia's budget and to introduce many investors through these research rights and to establish a competition system on the market. As soon as you have a system of competition, more companies appear. That's why you're opening new jobs. It is a budget for seven to ten open new jobs in service jobs to come to an open job for miners. Therefore, I think that this action and the launch of the initiative in such legal solutions are opening up a new investment environment, that the creation of new jobs will go safely to Serbia's development. What we need to say when we talk about mining in the future will be the need to adopt a mining development strategy. We have had this in practice today, which is why many of the amendments submitted to the Energy Development Strategy have not been accepted, because the need for the mining strategy to be particularly adopted in relation to the Energy Development Strategy. As for the Energy Development Strategy, it began to be written in 2010 by defining the Energy Management Committee because the earlier strategy, which was practically defined by 2015, ceases to apply by adopting a new strategy. So, the need was to open up all the interested entities in the matter of energy and open the door and say in a certain way what they have. What this has proved is that there are five priorities, five topics discussed by the forum for Serbia's energy policy here in the community on September 2nd because the Strategy came and was published on the site on June 2nd of this year. In September, five parallel round tables were held on various issues and as part of this Strategy, it is the one relating to chapters 15, 21 – consumer protection, electricity, third one relating to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, third one concerning coal, oil and natural gas and the fifth one was to protect the environment and climate change. What came out after three hours of debate are certain types of recommendations that should have been made to this Strategy because it was realized that many things could not be introduced through amendments, but that national action plans would have to take into account such recommendations. Many have also made some new solutions, i.e. some new proposals that will surely come to life in the future, which is that it has been realized that engineering in Serbia must first be united in a certain way, and this has also been shown in the Mining Act. There is no institution at this time, nor an association that has at all the opportunity to issue any licenses to mining engineers for the simple reason that somewhere in the 2011 law, which was so brilliant and so brilliant, did not give the possibility that mining engineers could work and denied the right to work. They have also become members of some international organisations today, and they do not have the opportunity to obtain these licences at all, and therefore for the first time, this Mining Act gives rise to the possibility of an institution or an association giving that possibility. At this point, it will be the Ministry of Energy, but we believe that in the future there must be a united system of functioning of general engineering in Serbia, a united system of licensing, because when we talk about engineering it is obviously a great need to unite all technical professions that will make a major contribution in the future especially to the development of all strategic projects. We now have these projects that we are talking about when it comes to construction, such as "Belgrade on Water", we are talking about building the Budapest-Belgrade-Pogorica-Bar railway line and we are talking about the need for engineers, and now when we talk about geological research and mine opening, it will be necessary for engineers to have a coherent integrated licensing system. What is as a conclusion, as well as as a recommendation one when renewable energy and energy efficiency have given, these are one new solution concerning funding models and we will also hold a session of the forum on Thursday that will provide financial models to finance energy efficiency in Serbia and I think it is good that the finance ministry is involved, as has been included for the issue of mining rents and the question of financing energy efficiency. It is true that certain subsidies will have to go from the budget, but it is also true that for now with this 2017 Strategy, they can only be through a certain part of the project financing of certain banks, certain credit lines that Serbia's budget will have to place in a certain way either through business banks or through a certain fund defined by the Law on rational use of electricity. Finally, what's interesting is that climate change and even environmental protection are actively involved when we talk about the Mining Act, but also when we talk about the Energy Development Strategy. Of course, both the Committee on Environmental Protection and the President will be involved when it comes to the World Conference on Climate Change. It is certain that we will have to adjust our budget functioning system to that. What is very important is that the database, which energy will provide and through its strategy, should be made available in a certain transparent way to the public. This was in a certain way one recommendation in the NGO sector, as well as all those who participated in this forum at all. The issue of the overall functioning and implementation of such a strategy, which has given some financial framework in the future until 2025, or 2030, about 14.36 billion euros, is something that may be a list of good wishes, but is somewhere a goal to seek. What has to be said is that Serbia and this Assembly will become an integral part of the Parliamentary Plenum of the Energy Community, which will be formed on 14 December and that this parliament will have to form a permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Plenum of the Energy Community, so that it is some work that follows us in this parliamentary part. Together with the Ministry of Energy, we will certainly work on the development of energy, as you suggested the date of the strategy. It is good that you cooperate with both civil society and the sector that deals. What we heard on the Committee today is that the Action Plan for Chapter 15 has been submitted. To the European Commission. That means you're kind of taking a deep step towards opening a chapter when it comes to energy. In Voting Day, the Serbian Progressive Party will surely support the bill as well when it comes to mining, geological research and the Energy Development Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40413	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two important documents on the agenda of the Republic's Parliament today: a draft law on mining and geological research and a proposal for a strategy for the development of energy by the Republic of Serbia by 2030. When it comes to the legislative proposal that we are talking about today, the opinion of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club is that this is in fact a confirmation of the clear and firm definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the restoring ministry that this extremely important and important area in Serbia, the area of mining is the basic medium of economic growth, development and progress in Serbia in the coming period. You, Mr Antic, have said that the great chances and if these opportunities are used in the right way, it is possible to make rapid and dynamic progress in a relatively short period of time, not only in the field of mining, but in the fast and dynamic economic growth. The potentials are large in the mining sector and the possibility that these potentials are exploited is certain. This particular certainty, when we talk about the use of potential in the next period of time, will contribute to this legislative proposal that we are talking about today. New open mines in Serbia mean new jobs. A short time ago, counterpart Tomic reiterated that about one open job in the mining sector comes from between seven to ten jobs in other activities and other areas. According to some data, and you correct me if I'm wrong, there are about 250 exploitation fields in Serbia today, in which mining and mining operations are carried out, and there are about a hundred research fields that work and some of the world's recognizable and important companies. You mentioned some of them, such as "Rio Tinta", such as "Friport" and some of Canada's very important and significant companies. It's just that foreign companies invest between $10 million and $100 million annually in investigative operations. The presence of foreign companies in the field of mining in Serbia is encouraging for us when we talk about the prospect of mining in the next period of time. It's not a dispute. Foreign companies are interested in our mineral raw materials. On the other hand, there is what is the government's intensity, what is the goal of the restoring ministry, which is new investment, investing in this extremely important and important area. An open mine in Serbia can have a percentage impact on GDP, and more open new mines can certainly change the entire economic picture and the economic environment in Serbia. Speaking of GDP, mining as an area of GDP today I think it has a stake of about 2%. We are deeply convinced that mining in the next period of time can certainly be one of the most developed industries and that this participation can be up to 5%. You were talking about potentials, you were talking about capacity. Only in eastern Serbia, I think you mentioned it in the opening exhibition, are large sites of gold and silver and copper. If these sites are used properly for the next period of time, they are precisely a guarantee of the accelerated dynamic development of mining and economy in general, but they are also a guarantee of new jobs. Only eastern Serbia is guaranteed over 1,000 jobs. So it's important and we need to restore first and foremost trust and faith in what we have, in what we have. When we look at the mining area from that aspect and in this context, then I can safely say that mining is one of Serbia's most realistic development opportunities at the moment. I think there are about 25,000 miners working in Serbia right now. That's some data I came up with, and you correct me if I'm wrong. They do one of the hardest jobs in Serbia, a job that deserves both respect and respect, but the work they do in the mine has a far wider context. Working in the mines, they are actually the ones who run all of Serbia. We are talking today about a system and roof law that represents a strategic definition and strategic approach of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution ministry on this extremely important and important area, the area of mining in Serbia. I would say modern law and we believe one of the most modern in this area in this part of Europe. True, he corrects those perceived shortcomings when it comes to applying the current Mining Act. We believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will remove all the obstacles that existed in efficient business. Stimulative and attractive, I would say a legal framework for investors who certainly want to enable greater economic efficiency. So, what is a concrete goal that is to be achieved? Extending current capacities and attracting new investments. The law we are talking about today, the draft law on mining and geological research, is an additional incentive to develop mining in Serbia. With this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the resolution ministry makes a huge step forward, a huge step forward in attracting new investments, and new investments are an additional momentum, additional energy and for the mining area, but also for the full economy in general. You were in your exhaustive presentation, not so short, talking about the numerous newspapers that this legal proposal brings, and I'm not going to repeat it. We believe that they have complete justification, but as a key promotion, I want to highlight the simplification of the procedures for obtaining permits for exploitation and research. So there are no additional administrative burdens when we talk about investor work and we think it is crucial, if we look at the goal we want to achieve, which is to attract new investments. It is important, we agree fully with you, Mr. Minister, to provide security for companies investing in Serbia, because those with great uncertainty invest huge money. It is this legal framework that provides additional security for investment in Serbia in the area of mining. So from the moment the potential investor, when a potential company invests the first money, is clearly defined by the order of moves. On the other hand, an atmosphere has been created to make the money depositor realize that he has all the necessary support of the state, the government, the resolution ministry, to reach that ultimate goal, to finalisation, which is the opening of the mine. Looking at this legislative proposal in general, I would like to say that we believe that this business has a future in Serbia, and that this is one real, stable and secure basis for attracting new investment in the mining sector, and this will certainly start, I repeat for who knows which time, economic activity in general, will trigger Serbia's economy. It's very good and you've talked about it, so behind this legislative proposal is great work and great effort, a large number of quality public debates, where suggestions and suggestions and sciences and professions, professional associations and industry could be heard, and when I say industry, I mean representatives of domestic and foreign companies. I repeat, the presence of foreign companies in the field of mining in Serbia is very encouraging for us. When it comes to the second document we are talking about today, therefore, the proposal to start the energy development of the Republic of Serbia by 2025, with a projection by 2030, this is one of the most important strategies in the country. This strategy, together with the Energy Act, is the basis for energy policy in Serbia, namely this document and the Energy Act define a clear direction towards development of energy policy in Serbia. It is very important that this document is realistic and feasible. If you were to draw the line today and look at the strategy adopted in 2005, I think it was also established in the stratification of the Strategy, if you were to draw the line today and see what was done from what was defined in the previous Strategy, that is about 20%. So we say that it's important to have a real and viable strategy, and we believe that when there's a new projection, and the projections are about 15 years, and when we're able to draw a line and look at the results of the strategy that we're talking about today, the percentage of the realisation is about 90%. So the strategy is a list of what needs to be done. It routed the way for the development of energy policy in Serbia. It is very important how it will be implemented, i.e. it is very important what the colleagues in the JS spoke about, the implementation plan. It is very important how and how the objectives defined by the strategy will be realized. As far as we're concerned, politics is clear, the goal is clear, and what's far more important, that goal that's set, is real and is feasible. The strategy is actually a long-term basis for energy development and contains some of the essential principles and principles on which this development is based. When I say the essential principles and principles, of course I mean energy security above all, I mean the sustainable development of energy, but I also think about the development of the national energy market. We are convinced that the realisation of what is defined in this document will enable and secure and reliable and quality energy supply, that it will also enable business development and market development and that we will be able to create cleaner and more renewable energy, but also cleaner environments. What I also want to say, and what I think is very important, is that Serbia has shown its commitment and readiness when it comes to harmonising our energy policy with EU policy. It was done, clearly and clearly, that it was done during the previous time period in the implementation of EU energy policy. At the end of last year, therefore, in December 2014, Serbia adopted the Energy Law proposal, and the EU's third energy package was incorporated into this Energy Act. So, once again, the energy development strategy itself is consistent and adapted to changes in the world. As with the previous law that I was talking about, the draft Law on Mining and Geological Research, as well as the strategies, seems to me, since 2010, to be one great effort and work, a large number of quality public debates where suggestions and suggestions from all relevant factors could also be heard. At the very end, of course, we are ready to discuss in particular, but I would like to say that the SPS Parliament Club will also support the draft law on mining and geological research and the proposal for a strategy for the development of energy by the Republic of Serbia by 2025, with a projection by 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40415	Since the authorised representatives have exercised their right, we are moving on to the list of MPs in order and the first one is MP Branka Bosnjak. Here you go, Branka.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40416	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the Mining and Geological Research Act is a system law, as it makes assumptions for overall economic development. It also provides for the country's energy independence, but also ensures the sustainable development of society and the economy of a country and the protection of the environment. That's why the SDPS will support this bill in the voting day. In my presentation today, I will refer to those parts of the law that are too much about my profession, which is architecture and construction, but I will look back on the topic of energy efficiency, since this is the topic I've been working on for almost 20 years. I'm going to talk about the part of the law that defines geological research, which is actually members from 16th to 57th. Geological research is divided into basic geological research and research is of public interest and is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, there are applied geological research, which are actually the subject of my current analysis in today's address, and it represents a rather wide range of research, mineral resource identification, geological research, hydrogeological, geothermal. The aim of these applied research can be to analyse resources and exploitation reasons, but it can be spatial and urban planning and disaster prevention, designing in line with the geomechanical properties of a field, environmental protection and of course sustainable development. Geothermal research can also provide seismic data, and I would like to focus something today in today's presentation on the subject. Please, Mr. Minister, make a personal contribution to the development of geothermal atlas which is actually a set of investigative actions on potential geothermal energies, but what matters is he gives a lot of information on seismic risks. Belgrade is one of the two capitals in Europe that does not have this seismic atlas. In your presentation, Mr. Minister, you highlighted the importance of energy independence. I think I've talked a lot about it when we talked about the previous law, but I think it's very important today to stress the extent of Belgrade's energy geothermal potential. Belgrade is simply lying on geothermal sources and I think the whole of Serbia with Hungary is actually the richest of these potentials in Europe. These are quality energy sources. They are highly renewable, they are very accessible to Serbia and they are ecologically ideal. Belgrade's airport has built its own study on the potential of geothermal sources in layers below their parcels and has obtained results so that these potentials can cover the energy balances needed to heat and cool all their facilities. The Mining and Geological Research Act abolishes jurisdiction over the rent for geothermal sources, however, it retains jurisdiction in the procedure. I want to give you a very complex, complicated procedure that often discourages you. In our practice for the past 20 years we have been involved in designing objects that use geothermal energy in drilling on the plot as a source of energy for these facilities. I also have a lot of experience to tell you that this complex procedure often discourages investors. I agree, of course, that there must be an appropriate procedure and that there must be precise records, otherwise the holders of the permits may be disabled in relation to those who use the same hydrogeological layers without authorisation and could actually be in a situation where those who pay and get the permit are threatened by these non-solids. Finally, an analysis of the law, I want to say something on behalf of the SDPS about the current very current topic. In Paris, the Summit is held with the theme - global climate change and at the end of the summit, we expect a final document that should actually be an upgrade to Kyoto protocol and is currently under discussion at the Summit on global risks. The main problem is over-emission of carbon dioxide. Most developed, the world cannot make its contribution to reducing this mission through changes or at times through changes in its production processes, and in other ways they are involved. One way is to trade carbon-credits and I don't think Serbia has taken advantage of its chance on the world carbon-credit stock exchange, and Ministers ask you to initiate activities within the capacity of your ministry that could lead to activation in that sense, because I think that using these credits that are actually donor funds, I think we can initiate and finance projects that are very important to us. Here, as I mentioned today, are some geothermal research, but also making a seismic atlas of Belgrade, it is quite certain that these funds can be used for this and that this may be one of the ways to think. In turn, the SDPS in the voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40417	The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, and then Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40418	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, I would take this opportunity, since you are not in your reply to my colleague Branko Karavidic say some things, so let me try you to repeat that, so I can get an explanation about the law that is before us today, and it's about deadlines, about the geological research of mineral raw materials. Namely, by proposing a new law, this deadline is basically given for three years, and then it can be extended to three plus two, with the fulfilment of certain conditions, which is a condition that at least 75% of the projected scope and dynamics of research work have been carried out. What is the situation on the ground is that the first approvals were granted in January 2012, when that deadline stood out in January of this year, nothing happened, they did not send any extension requests under the current law to two years, and then two others, but no one did anything, nor did the ministry ask those who did research how they worked and did these 75%. Our question and the dilemma of this whole law is whether now that this law is being applied, whether you're going to count the deadline from the beginning, so you're going to issue in three plus three plus two years or you're going to do something for those who have so far used the right to research, which these researches started recently, now for more than four years. It remained unclear and it is a very important topic, because as we read now, it turns out that someone will be able to investigate, not as it is under the current law for seven years, but 12 years. It's one of the explanations that is very important to us, in the determination of support in this law. What I wanted to talk about was the strategy, the development of energy, by 2025, this document should inherit a strategy that was valid until 2015, and it is such a beautiful document, I believe that it was written by professional people, much more professional than I am, giving a vision of Serbia's development, and I was intrigued by a few things that you said about this strategy. You said you'd come to parliament once a year with a report on how this strategy is being implemented, and then, compared to how the strategy is being met, we'll change certain things and deadlines. That's what worries me the most, and that's some of those deadlines and things that are here, say, are in the strategy, and you were saying in your presentation a little bit different than that. For example, there are investment tables, in sources, that is, bringing gas and saying here, there is a table on the 51st page and it says – new routes of natural gas supply and investment. It says, by 2020, investments for new routes -- zero, and by 2025 -- zero, and then by 2030, we're going to invest two billion euros. This tells me that you have no idea where there can be a new gas supply route in Serbia. You said, South Stream, there is no more, I'm not saying, of course, it's not the fault of the Serbian government, but did the government find any alternative? You were talking about interconnection to Bulgaria as a solution, and you weren't saying anything about the Trans-Adriatic pipeline, the possibility of getting attached to it or any other project. We here, I don't see the possibility of getting a new supply direction, and in that sense, I don't know how you're designing that by 2030 we're going to practically double the amount of gas used today in Serbia and where that gas is going to come from, especially if we know that the 2018 agreement with Ukraine for the transport of gas, Russian gas through Ukraine, which is now the only direction Serbia is supplying and what we're going to do in 2018. That, Mr. Minister, is very close, less than three years and I think citizens should be concerned. The second concern is investment in electricity production capacity. You're saying a few things here, because of the application of the large-boiled directive, and I've also asked a parliamentary question on this subject, so now I have to say something about it, I need to invest a total of 634.5m euros in modernising the ecological improvement of the power blocks of over 300 megawatts, which has an installed power of 3,3160 megawatts, and that the blocks below 300 megawatts will be shut down in the period from 2018 to 2024. What does that mean? These blocks that need to be shut down, they have about a quarter of the installed power, they produce a quarter of the electricity in Serbia, according to the directive these six years as you do, and maybe it sounds so calming to the citizens, it practically means, those six years, these power plants can do one-third of the time. That doesn't mean they can work eight hours every day, so they're on fire, they're on fire, we need electricity, but they can work for two years and then they shut down, because they can't start that production every day. So, we will be left without one quarter of electricity production by 2020 and Serbia will become, in addition to our dependence on oil, gas imports, we will unfortunately become a country that becomes and depends on electricity imports. The situation is likely to be more difficult, as in this first part of 635m euros to be invested in modernising 300m-megawatt blocs, nothing is currently being done. I asked the question here – what about the $200 million loan from the Japanese credit bank for the TENT's absence? That tender was supposed to end in June of this year, here it is December nothing was done. Where do you plan to get the funds and complete these complicated works? You're here to assure us that we don't have to worry about this until 2024 to finish. What's still valid is that we have to start working on these objects so those blocks can continue to work after that remont. These procedures are complicated, tenders require a minimum of one year from the moment it is scheduled until the beginning of the works. It's usually the beginning of 2016 in a month. I doubt that you will succeed all of these facilities, which are the blocks on the TENT A3 to A6, B1 and B2, Kostolac B1 and B2, to run this process in time, because I don't know where you're going to find the money, I don't know how you're going to carry out the procurement process, find the performer and start working. What I, with my modest knowledge from this area, can see by reading this strategy, is that Serbia will come into a problem, that from a country that had the potential to be an exporter of electricity, we will come into a situation to import electricity, become dependent in this area too, and make future economic development of Serbia more difficult, because we agree that one of the preconditions to have the growth of the social product is what we expect, that serious investments in energy infrastructure are needed. If that development happens, although with this government, I'm sure it won't happen, we won't be able to get out of that energy angle. I'd also have a question, you said you had fulfilled your obligation this year to keep the oil reserves, the strategic reserves this year in nine days. Is that by signing that contract with a Swiss firm at five million euros to buy options for oil and oil derivatives in Germany? Is that the fulfillment of these strategic reserves in nine days, as you said, by paying five million euros to a firm, which is from Novi Sad, but has some representation and in Switzerland, and then reporting to the tender, and then this firm has taken possession of five million, to sell us options? And now that those options are up on December 31st, they're gone, the fuel's gone, and we're starting again from the beginning of next year. Are you going to buy options again or are you going to buy real fuel, or are you going to start investing in building storage capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40419	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40420	First of all, what I stayed with my colleague as an esteemed answer means the new law does not mean that there is a new deadline for investigators – three plus three plus two. So they have their own solution that has its own date, and compared to that date, the situation takes place for them. So it doesn't start all over again now. But on the basis of the amendments, Mr. Zivkovic and Pavicevic, we will further, let me say, express and confirm. When it comes to your other questions, I have remained in debt to Mrs. Komic. The question is about renewables and incentives. I don't think the citizens of Serbia are in any kind of error at all. Everyone is aware that this segment, related to renewable sources, we pay de facto, we citizens, through our accounts, and it is the green tax and it is on every account very transparently, and for this very reason this government is leading one, let me say, policy that dimensionals our activities regarding renewables and we are trying to meet this 27% requirement just in 2020, when the obligation is signed. Simply, there has been this commitment since 27% of 2020, and therefore we make sure that we get close to that goal that year, so that our citizens do not, at this point, "unnecessarily" burden our citizens. When it comes to mining, we other than JP The underground exploitation of coal “Resavica”, we do not give anyone any incentives and incentives and subsidies to carry out mining activities. It is simply that no company, domestic or foreign to us, which is involved in the exploitation of mineral raw materials and other activities, is asking for subsidies. This subsidy only goes to a public company that is doing underground coal exploitation, simply throughout the world, this underground coal exploitation is in some ways stimulated. Whether it's stimulated through, I don't know, the calculation of the energy value of that coal, so whether or not something is paid out of the budget, but it works all over the place the following way. When it comes to gas pipelines and the possibility of Serbia getting some alternative gas supply routes, and I simply think it's an unserious comment that says -- what did you do as a government to replace the South Stream project? It is clear to the citizens of Serbia and to anyone who has a clear dose of well-meaning in its political functioning, that Serbia is one small country of which it does not depend on the crucial and capitality of major infrastructure projects and pipelines to work and realise. I would prefer that during 2008 in January and the energy agreement with the Russian Federation, Serbia was a little better protected in the whole NIS arrangement, the South Stream and the like, than you are now dating me with such a remark, but well, what's there. Serbia does not cruelly wrap from transit of gas with Ukraine. We have a contract with Gazprom. Gazprom has an obligation to deliver to us, under a long-term contract that lasts until 2021, the quantities of gas provided for in the contract. At the end of the day, we as a customer are absolutely not interested in which side Gazprom will spend this gas on Serbia, whether it will work through Ukraine, whether it will work through the Bat Gardner gas warehouses and other gas warehouses in Western Europe. I repeat, we are making efforts and running a very active policy on all other gas projects. The gas interconnection with Bulgaria is exactly a project that should connect us to that southern gas corridor, but not on the Trans-Adriatic pipeline, but on the part of that tap pipeline. So as you know, it goes from Caspian Base, first Tanap to the Turkish-Greek border, from the Greek border goes Tap. The EU's priorities and as one on priority projects co-financed by the European Commission, number one is from the Tap Interconnection of Greece-Bulgaria and from Greece-Serbia. If there's an adequate amount of gas, we'll do the maximum that depends on us, that we can provide certain amounts of gas on that side, we'll do it for the market. I repeat, I think you've gone out, and I've also talked about LNG Terminal Alexandropolus, since I see that there are very strong advocates from certain parliamentary clubs, that we are relying on LNG Terminal Krk. I am not quite convinced that this is a long-term solution for Serbia. I think, if we're looking for an alternative in LNG gas, that it should be tied to these Greek LNG floating terminals, through which with already defined priority projects of Greece-Bulgaria and the Bulgarian-Serbian interconnection, certain quantities of gas can come to this market. The amounts of gas that can reach that pipeline are measured in billions of cubic metres, as it will be the capacity of the Serbian-Bulgarian interconnection. There will be, of course, a problem to provide the necessary amounts of gas, but this is what commercial negotiations are for. At this point, when Russian gas is extremely cheap, as a result of the oil formula, the price of this LNG gas may be unfavourable at this point, but in the long run we'll see what these match markets will bring. So, we work, we follow, we are part of all projects, we also talk to Romanians about "Agri", that is, the interconnection that through Azerbaijan should provide certain amounts for Romania, via the Black Sea, Azerbaijan - Georgia - Romania. There is one option to make some interaction between Serbia and Romania. That's seven kilometers from our side, from Mokrine to the Romanian border. There's a problem that's up to Arad, where there's going to be a share of that pipeline, 70km that Romania should finance, so we'll see how real it is. I repeat, we do all this very carefully and we take care of all the elements and don't need to worry, as you should be even less concerned about yourself, and I would ask you to stop spreading that concern among citizens when it comes to the electricity situation. So we have fully clearly defined dynamics and very precise plans regarding the necessary amounts of electricity. If you listened carefully to what I was saying at the beginning, we from the thermo-sector, when it comes to small bars, in the period 2018 to 2024 should, I should say, in some way gradually emerge 1,120 megawatts. I've been very precise and counted what we're doing to make up for it. So, by 2020, we have 2,620 megawatts in the plan, of which, what is absolutely already certain and agreed, it is the 1,100 from renewable, 350 coal Kostolac, which has already begun to work, and we are in a serious phase of negotiating and negotiating these capacity on gas and we are doing another additional analysis of the justification of the project - Reversible Bistrica Hydropower Plant. So we're not going to get into that kind of trouble. We're moving within that framework, and if we add that we're planning and working on, let's say, developing projects of another 1,323 megawatts, of which the thermal capacity is 700 megawatts, I think we have one very solid, clear and defined situation. When it comes to mandatory reserves, we are trying to comply with all directives that clearly define and commit certain quantities to be in derivatives, and that certain quantities may be in futures, or in these financial elements, to provide the necessary quantities in accordance with the plan... the formation of mandatory reserves and we, and we, or by the end of the year, are in payment dynamics which for the nine days, Mr Đurišić, there are approximately three billion in derivatives that are de facto derivatives purchased in all tenders and for crude oil and for diesel and for Euro diesel and for maput, won the NIS and we have these option contracts worth over 400 million, which is the most favourable bidder to win. So in order to meet those nine days, we've spent about three billion on buying raw oil and derivatives and 400 million on these option contracts, which, I repeat, all countries are working, all countries have optional contracts and all countries are doing it with a wave, even though we didn't agree to it last time, but I called and invited us to see each other and to look at it all together. All do so with Germany and BAP, their state agency at the Ministry of Economy, which gives these confirmations that these reserves really exist and are secure and that within 24 hours they can be delivered to the lieutenant country. We plan to increase these reserves next year and again, in accordance with possible capacity, buy derivatives. One smaller financial amount for options and one part of the funds goes to investment. So we want about three items. One is the procurement of derivatives, which first fill our national warehouses. In this year, we have primarily filled in the stock reserves and the trans-naphtha and we are already somewhere close to having these facilities completely, maybe I'm not exactly accurate right now, but I can get you some very accurate data, some of the options and part of where we're saving with options, we're going to be developing our storage facilities, because I repeat, at the end of the day of 2023, we're going to have to have 500,000 tons in the derivatives themselves in storage capacity. It would be good for the state to take that role and be at least a majority partner in building these new storage facilities. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. If there's any need, I'm here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40421	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40422	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers and other members of the government, since I am an ex-worker of the Kolubar Mining Baseline, which is our largest coal producer, I need to talk about this bill. Mining in Serbia has a long tradition and represents an important business branch, whose importance for the state we could see for ourselves during last year's catastrophic floods. However, mining also represents a branch of the economy that also requires large initial investment and continuous innovation, as well as work on the discovery of new mine beds, since it is non-renewable natural resources. It is therefore important to make this area as legal as possible, so that these natural resources are managed in a rational way, and I think that this is achieved by the proposal for this new legal solution. First of all, I think that the key importance of the provision is contained in Article 4. It's a bill of law. It envisions for the first time what resources and raw materials are of importance for the Republic of Serbia, so they are projected to be coal, oil, gas, oil shale, copper ore, gold, pine and lithium, as well as other mineral raw materials designated by the government. For research and exploitation of these raw materials in the future, it will be possible to expropriate the immovableity in accordance with the rules on exploitation. I believe that this provision is of great importance and that it will speed up the possibilities for the exploitation of these resources and raw materials. Also, it is good that the Geological Institute of Serbia is given the legal authority to do for the country's account, and according to the government's approval, geological research can also be done, because we already have state and public enterprises hiring other legal entities to do so, instead of doing this institution that is already on the state budget. Parts of the law, which treat the rules relating to research, are now significantly more precise and more detailed and I would particularly highlight the provision in Article 45 which speaks of how much raw materials and samples are allowed to be taken for research, as this shows the insistence on preserving and protecting the environment. Also, what is most important is that they are now parts of the law, which relate to the issue of research and exploitation permits, as well as which documents should be collected for obtaining these permits, are significantly more quality and more clearly defined in the law, which should reflect the effectiveness of the specific administrative procedures in which these permits are issued, which should also speed up the efficiency of these research and the opening and exploitation of new ore and raw materials sites from which both the state and the local community where these sites are located will benefit. Also, resources, reserves of mineral raw materials, resources and reserves of underground waters, as well as geothermal resources are determined by confirmation of the reserves or resources of mineral raw materials and groundwaters, as well as geothermal resources issued by the ministry’s solution, i.e. the competent authority of the autonomous province, on request of the researcher and exploiter. Article 71 also provides for the extension of the protection belts around the exploitation fields compared to the existing law, which I also think is a good newspaper because it is much cheaper to think ahead and plan for future spatial expansion of these fields. More comprehensively, handling of mining waste and abandoned mines has been regulated, which is important, as in history mining has shown that the improvement of the techniques of exploitation that they eventually have been able to reactivate and exploit or subsequently establish significant reserves that have been missed by some previous research. I consider it a positive side of this law and that there will be no increase in compensation for the exploitation of ore and raw materials, i.e.. that they will remain at the same percentage of income as in the current law. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that the proposed Law on Mining and Geological Research in one more quality way regulates this very important area for our economy and will therefore give its support for its adoption in the voting day, as well as for the proposal for a strategy for energy development by 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40423	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. He's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40424	Dear chairman, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will repeat what my colleague, the head of the parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic, said in his presentation, that the Serbian MP's party will give full support to the Energy Development Strategy proposal and the draft law on mining and geological research. I will just say a few more words to add to what my colleague Milicevic has already said, as the parliamentary group's position, and I will be a little more from another angle what it means for Serbia, given that the minister rarely elaborated on the bill's proposal and the Energy Development Strategy. When it comes to the Energy Development Strategy, I would like to say that this is the most important document for the development of the energy sector in Serbia and that without a good energy policy, there is no economic development, no employment. In addition, it is the main reason to invest in energy because the development of energy contributes to faster development and existing and new production branches. This means that it will enable more efficient economic life, better quality economic growth, and provide longer term conditions for higher employment, and employment to Serbia is the top priority of this government, increasing standards and better overall living conditions. How important is that question? Just one piece of information, presently current, given that current movements in the economy give optimism compared to the one envisaged for this year, but one detail very significant. Mining and electricity production have reached their level since 2013, and following those catastrophic consequences that were around the flood last year, affecting the growth of energy production of 39.3 in the third quarter. A little recognition for the bearers in this area from the Government, the Ministry to employees in mines, or surface spears. The strategy sets long-term objectives for the development of production capacities. The security of environmental security, the development of a portable, transport and distribution system and electricity markets are in place, and what I particularly want to stress is the development of the use of energy from renewable and new sources and the improvement of energy efficiency. The strategy comes from the fact that energy was both a driver and a key factor in economic change, as well as a backbone of economic development, energy based on the efficient use of relatively clean and from different sources of energy available, that production and energy consumption leave as little negative effects on the environment, water, air, land, human health, economic efficiency and market. What I also want to point out, as a member of the SPS, is that the development of energy would have to be and, what the Strategy means, socially tolerated. I therefore point out once again the need, in order to succeed these changes in the energy sector, that it is necessary to establish adequate social dialogue within energy companies and at the level of society, i.e. the state, but also at the level of solidarity with socially endangered categories of the population, which is what the Government already does. She's detached some funds, and she's going to isolate them further. What the Government proposes in this Strategy, as priorities, is energy security, the energy market and sustainable energy. Of course, energy security is the most important, fundamental, and that means, reliable, secure, efficient and quality supply, as well as safe work and sustainable development of energy systems and energy sectors in general. It is already envisaged through this Strategy and the relativisation of existing, building new capacities, with the aim of ensuring reliable, smooth, quality electricity supply. But what I want to point out next to the energy market is those three issues about sustainable energy, and that is why I want to support this strategy in particular. The first question is that the government insists on ensuring conditions for improving energy efficiency in performance and energy performance, as well as energy consumption. I think the minister himself said and many have already said savings, i.e. ensuring energy efficiency is considered a major new source of energy. That's where we support this strategy. What is also very important is that the strategy insists on increasing the share of energy from renewable energy sources. You know what, we have a lot of coal and the base is still on that, of course, to be cleaner production, we have hydro potential and it needs to continue to develop, but, coal, oil, gas, water or you don't have, the state has nothing to do. But when it comes to renewable elections, the state can work a lot – wind parks, solar energy, biomass, etc., etc. I want to give full support to this very direction of development. Of course, what I'm also trying to say is, energy is, as I would say, someone who's the most vulnerable to the environment. A very important place in this strategy is also dedicated to this in terms of preventive prevention and in terms of the determination of obligations and compensation for damages, the elimination of adverse consequences, etc., etc. So that you don't owe much for it, there's more of my colleagues to talk about, I just want one suggestion. Energy is a very sensitive area. It is subject to various changes in the world and the environment. So as important as it is to implement the energy strategy, what we expect from this government, it is so important to monitor these movements and at the same time adapt all the measures necessary to bring them into this area. When it comes to the draft law on mining and geological research, the law regulates the performance of geological research and mining, various types of mineral raw materials and geological resources and clearly determines the conditions under which they can be used. In addition, they shall take into account the protection of public interest and the need to attract future investment and investment in this area. The government comes from proposing this law, that mineral resources are naturally non-renewable or heavily renewable and that the state must take care of them in a responsible manner and ensure their but sustainable use. What has also been said here is that Serbia is rich in gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, coal, mineral, thermal waters, etc. This valuable natural treasure represents an extremely valuable economic and development potential. Exactly what this law wants is for potentials to be exploited, to create legal conditions and attract investments in this area, which are very important. We've heard many times today what it means to open a mine, how much money it brings, how many people hire both directly and indirectly around that facility. Of course, mines have always been the bearers of economic development. They are today following this failed transition with a fairly outdated technology, they need investment investments. The concessions the state gave did not have a positive effect everywhere. This often comes to terms, that concessionaire's wish to get to profits as quickly as possible with as little money and less protection for low-income workers. It is precisely this law that the government wants to create a basis and wants to relate to it in a different way. With regard to mineral resources, the mineral treasure to show one more responsible relationship, provides an exploitation that will benefit both states and workers and communities and concessionaries. When it comes to local environments and they have to have, let me put it this way, because that's where it happens in that area. Not only are mines used, infrastructures are used, roads are destroyed, water, air, land, etc. And it is therefore very important that it is provided here in this law that even in that area, the polluter pays must be provided, the compensation for the use of that. What is most important when it comes to this law is that the government has a firm definition that mining is one of the supporters of economic development and growth and that it simply made such a law that it is an invitation for investment, an invitation for the private industry to invest there, in that area. Of course, we've listened many times today, Serbia's great potential in the area, it's a great opportunity to get fresh money and hire a large number of workers, which is the most important thing. It is precisely the law that reduced procedures, shortened procedures, allowed investors to get the necessary permits in the easiest possible way, thus providing them safe and secure business. So, besides the concessionaires, besides local communities, besides the state, we think that this law will be expected by the workers of the miners as well. There are about 25,000 of them in Serbia. That job is one of the hardest jobs in the world. Investments in mining should, among other things, be a turning point for miners in order to provide better conditions and greater security, higher wages and labour rights, given that they work on the most difficult and risky jobs. So they need to have scales, too. The law establishes the obligation to run a geological-information system and catastra research and exploitation fields for all mineral resources for mining waste, abandoned mines, etc. This shows the government's responsible attitude towards non-renewable other mineral resources, whose existence is a gift of nature, whose sustainable use is a human obligation. We'll support both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40425	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40426	Although I wasn't in the O.R. all the time, I listened very carefully to everything Mr. Petronijevic said and, of course, with gratitude for the support of a legal project and strategy, I would only in one segment supplement myself in the part where I talked about it, and then there were certain questions, so I forgot to answer. Yes, I fully agree that the entire development of energy must be socially sustainable, that it must be monitored both by dialogue and by a series of measures that should enable citizens in Serbia to during this period when we have to carry out the transition of our energy system and to bring it into line with all the world's criteria and criteria, so that period is set to have support. I want to tell you that the Government of Serbia is planning significant funds for the energy-hazarded buyer in the 2016 budget. In the 2015 budget, 700 million dinars were allocated for these purposes, which amounted to 1.6 billion dinars in 2016. It is about one significant increase in resources that will increase and include people and additional amounts of free kilowatts of electricity and gas cubes. This is an even greater increase in the absolute amount that I'm talking about because the 2016 budget doesn't predict, let me say, the aid for heat energy, because heat needs to be subsidized by local self-government, so this entire amount in 2016 means, I repeat, a billion, more than a billion and 600 million dinars only goes to free kilowatts and free gas cubes and I believe it will be one good news for those who need support and help most. We have brought an end to this regulation on the socially endangered buyer and I expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt in December and start from 1 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40427	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40428	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, so in these little over two minutes, I will try to state my position and position as our parliamentary group, which is why we will not support these two laws, and this is the proposal for a strategy and development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia from 2025 with projections until 2030. My colleague Marko Djurisic elaborated it extensively, and I can only say that I absolutely agree with him, because I think this strategy is a list of good wishes, without precise goals, deadlines and certain predictable and stable sources of funding for such a thing. As far as the draft laws on mining and geological research are concerned, there are a few issues. In fact, the provisions of the existing law, which was passed in 2011, defined that the investor is the rightholder for detailed geological research, must for the first three years of research realise a minimum of 75% of project projects envisaged, thus obtaining the opportunity to extend the rights to research for two more research periods of two years. What happened over the last three years is that no one, i.e. None of the investors have lost the right to geological research, and even more so by this law we are giving, we are probably introducing a new round that gives them the opportunity to continue to deal with what they were doing in the next seven, eight years, and what the current laws still need to lose that right from 2011. The second thing that bothers us is the further centralisation of Serbia, the exclusion of local self-government to give its own court and opinion on possible geological research and the exploitation of mineral resources in their territory, with the minister's explanation that they will only be notified and that they will be detailed, and the reason is that they are insufficiently efficient, unprofessional. I just remind Mr. Minister that they rule the territory of the entire Republic and that they should be with their party, coalition friends to discuss it, but further centralisation is not good for Serbia's development. Decentralization is something that gives the possibility...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40429	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word is Milinko Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40430	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Honored Minister Antić with his associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, we are facing today's proposal for a law on mining and geological research, which is one of the fundamental laws for Serbia's development. I've read the law five times, and after the fifth reading, I'm still mixed with feelings. On the one hand, there are phenomenal solutions, and on the other hand there are gaps to which I would appeal, point out, and pray for certain corrections. Today I will speak exclusively from the point of view of the economy and the application of the Mining and Geological Research Act in practice. For starters, I must commend certain provisions that the group together with the ministry eventually led to good and phenomenal solutions. First, the beginning of mineral raw materials, certain mineral raw materials, gives the status of strategic raw materials for the Republic of Serbia, so that I do not convince everyone, because the distinguished minister has tactfully lined everything up, what I think from this proposal, is a good solution, is of interest, and these are abandoned mines and mine closures. So, we have a temporary closing of the mine, we have a final closing of the mine, and we have a re-cultivation of mines, and what's particularly important, we have re-reculation guarantees based on various bonds and guarantees. Therefore, RTB Bor has only one billion and 700 million tonnes of technogenic raw materials in that part. It contains two million and 200,000 tons of copper and 188 thousand pounds of gold. What I wanted to show further in practice is that this reculation can't be like in many other things because it can practically be some kind of conservation and storage of that technical raw material for the start of exploitation when it comes, when a new technology comes up that at their time, at the time of that exploitation, couldn't get out of these technical raw materials to extract a certain amount of metal. In practice, respected ministers, we had last year, and this is what your associates, state secretaries and one and the other know, it is my suggestion that this law on the exploitation field and in the field of investigation take precedence over other laws. We had examples that we had been experiencing discontinuity in production for six months as we pursued various opinions in various ministries. This law must take precedence over the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Waters, the Law on Forests, the Law on Transport, the Law on Construction, etc. When you get the field of exploitation in it, the elaborat is a high value of the field of exploitation and everything that lies on the field of exploitation falls into another plan than this law. If you get into a situation where you have to change the waterway, you have to. If you get into a situation where you have to move the electric pole, you have to. Traffic, you must also not allow further construction and facilitate migration from an exploitation field or from an investigative field certain objects that are not in the mining function. What's good in one piece, what I've heard and what I'm suggesting, to include lead and zinc in strategic raw materials, I'd say nickel and nickel, and I'd say we should also have precious metals. No matter what anyone tells me, what precious metals are an integral part of some other raw materials and I will show later on that they are very important for Serbia's economy. I would further like to point out that simply for those companies that have processing capacities in Serbia and which have research potential for research simply cannot be allowed to export ore and export concentrate abroad. Simply, at least to the amount that it takes for our processing facilities to be filled out. Namely, the export of concentrate is only possible in two cases, I'm talking about copper because I come from Bora. In one case, when our processing capacity cannot process that amount of concentrate or when there is potentially a delay in the process of production due to the remonting, and the economy should live or in another case when there is a large disturbance of harmful substances, such as arsenic, mercury, cadium, copper, zinc, zinc, etc. Therefore, only in these cases can ore be exported, ore and concentrate, with the consent of processors and with the approval of the Government. In both cases, exporting ore is only possible to allow for processing. This means that exports are exported, and the raw materials obtained, or metals from the concentrate, are returned to Serbia. It's our raw materials. Especially to return the gold and deposit it at the National Bank of Serbia. There's another problem here, when I'm talking about not exporting the concentrate. Namely, you in Article 159 paragraph 4(2) predicted that a fee would be charged 5% of the net income of the smelter. I'm asking a question - how are you going to charge 5% of the net income of the watermelon from abroad? The net income is when the sales price we have, which certainly won't tell you who processed it, you take away the costs, which are the melting, it's the refinement, it's the overload and it's all kinds of insurance. We're going to get into a situation where we don't know two things, we don't know what the price is at which he's going to sell metal and what the cost is. In the world, technologies are different, so costs can be different. I mean, they can be mounted. What I'm saying is that there can be an increase in costs, and by the way, when the sales price is subtracted from the increased costs, the net income remains lower and is charged 5%. I'll take two examples. One of the states is from the environment. Macedonia, which has no processing capacity, how does it sell ore and concentrate? How did they protect their raw materials? On the one hand, they charged rent that usually goes. On the other hand, before the concentrate comes out, make analyses and make the contents of copper, gold, silver, paladium, platinum and other precious metals and charge 2% immediately. We have to wait another 30 days for the net income of the solvent, how much the concentrate melting process is, and yet we still don't know how much of it we're going to get. After that, they charge 10% for profit. In the end, if someone wants to export funds to some islands, etc., they charge another 10%. So they also protected their economy and their mineral resources and their monetary system. The second example is Indonesia, in which Friport works. Indonesia passed a law to pay export taxes. They didn't like it and they said you'll be building two new solvents by 2020. Those two new solvents are worth four billion dollars. One is built for a million and 600 million tons of concentrate, and one for 600,000 tons of concentrates. They protected their raw materials that way. As regards the approvals he would also comment on, the approvals are not a good solution as planned. I'll show you on the Bor case. In a magical way, between 2000 and 2004, geological maps from RTB Bor disappeared. Based on these missing cards, foreign companies have emerged that have started drilling and received an investigative right to the edge of RTB. RTB is on all sides surrounded by companies such as Avala Resource, Mineral Tank, then Friport Mcmoran, then Betex, then Rakita, etc. There's no more room to spread. RTB and the protection belt around RTB are not the same as the seat belt around a small bed. For us to expand and two kilometers is little, and for others we return to 500 meters, which again for us, I say, is not a good solution. Now we're getting into a situation where, on the other hand, where those strangers came from, we've had investigative drilling. They were infallible for copper, that they knew where he was. Now the situation is next. We as hosts operate by exploiting copper from 0.14 to 0.24, to have it for the next generations, and Friport found copper on our bed with 2.6% copper and 1.5 grams of gold at 65 million. So, he's got an investigative right. It's automatically under this law, which is not good, it's also entitled to exploitation. Exploitation law and investigative law are two different rights, separate. There must be an opportunity for our companies to take part in the exploitation race. If we have a drill, a hundred wells need to be done to find one or two wells to work. They unmistakably came to the copper that existed there. Now we're coming into a situation to get an automatic membership, first they've got an automatic right under Article 36 who first reports to get an investigative right, and by Article 69, the automatic exploitation law. In Article 28, you said they should only make a draft, an annual report and a periodic report, that 30 days before the deadline should appear in the ministry and get three years to collect the exploitation documentation. That's not good. It's not good that we want to take part in the race to get a bed for exploitation. Someone will say, "They have invested money." Okay, they've invested money, but the mineral raw material that was handed over to the draft ministry is state property. Whoever did research has confirmation of how much he actually spent money on it. Let's show up with him and us. It has the right to prevent purchases under the same conditions, or to prevent exploitation. If I have better conditions for the state, I'll give him the right to work on those terms again, because they're better for the state. If he refuses, I get exploitation rights. What's the problem then? So no one can come to the threshold. Why did we build a 400,000-dollar smelter? To resell iron tomorrow? Well, let's fill our capacity first. Second of all, it's not even the goal of having everything we've got... And you know, there are now a billion and 350 million tons of certified reserves in Bor. Shouldn't have given you the first search right to drill. Why isn't she in second place? Well, we've got 65 years of production next. We have a billion and 800 thousand tons of potential reserves that could be in the next 90 years. So we've been exploiting the investigation for almost a hundred years. If the state needed money, the orthopedic could give someone there who was supposed to drill for zinc, for anything, not what was created to destroy or narrow us down. It'll destroy an entire business branch. What is even more devastating, I can understand and that it should be done and that investments should come and that we have no money, everything is fine, but I can't understand that with the arrival of new investors we can't put in one member to work with a strategic partner and that the strategic partner has a maximum stake of 49%. Because if there's more to it, then our strategic raw material loses its meaning. Then our strategic raw materials don't become our strategic raw materials and then they shouldn't even be in Article 4. Then she becomes a strategic raw material of some foreign country, not ours. We have a solution for that, too. If he as a strategic partner with a minority investment, let's give him a majority package in the decision-making process, run the firm properly, along with the representatives of the ministry and have everything completely protected. A country with no more than 51% strategic raw materials, no strategy and no strategic raw materials. In the end, what I was going to say is, somebody's gonna say tomorrow, we're still saying -- now that he's got any protection, he's not gonna have that concentrate that he's producing, and when he gets the exploitation right, he needs to work at my place. If you don't process it at my place, but you take it out, there are problems like they were before. If he takes it out, then the state has nothing to do with it or metal, or anything. The point is, someone's going to say it's a game of competition, he's going to drive his raw materials wherever he wants. I agree, but I'll always be cheaper than him for transport costs because there's my raw materials, there's my processing capacity, with him. And may, under the most favourable conditions, have an obligation to work with me. If we don't, he'll do the next thing. He's going to export a year or two abroad and more expensive than I do to lock me up. That's pure logic. So this doesn't come down and that Bor is a bunch of big numbers and a lot of people, what do we have to do? We should do exactly what the Democrats are between 2000 and 2006, just the opposite, and we will raise Bor right. During that period, 15 factories were sold that made more profit than all these raw materials and copper. Those 15 factories cost RTB $370,000,000, sold for 12,000,000 and RTB remained $300,000 in loans and interest for 30 years. There's money in processing, in a higher degree of processing. They'll answer, have problems and our processors, we now sell 50% of copper on the domestic market. What's going to happen to Sevojna? What about Jagodina? What happens to the little processors who take copper from us when all the raw materials are exported. The copper has its own history, almost 120 years in Bora and has it for at least another 120 years of exploitation reserves. So the reserves are confirmed. In history, he also had the rule of foreign states that were before the war and during the war. That time is called the time of bloody gold. In that period, Germany, Austria and other countries, all that was important, they carried out. They exploit it by just following the wire where the highest percentage is, they extract it, and the rest remains the ruins. That's what we're afraid of. In Bor, there were always 15-20 thousand campers who had been practicing blood gold for Germany. From this processing, the copper was made in the former Yugoslavia and the railways and lakes and lakes and hydrocenters Đerdap and electric networks and temples Orthodox and two cities with complete infrastructure, etc. At the pine cemetery, 7,000 Hungarian Jews from World War II were buried, all working on bloody gold. So I'm just saying, if there was any intention of this being like this, I can't fix it, and this speech of mine won't have any effect on it. But if there was a coincidence, there's a possibility that what we can make right, we can make it right. I welcome you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40431	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40432	First of all, I have to point out that RTB Bor was involved in writing this law. RTB representatives were members of the commission and were very actively involved in all these solutions that I absolutely claim are a reflection of the 21st century and the need for mining in Serbia even if it is in some segments of mining in the modern world. To me, as a representative of the SPS who has, to say, a legal basis in the Union of Communists and in some socialist and self-government segments, your discussion can please me, my senses of hearing, but objectively it's something that doesn't fit the time in which we live. Mining must develop, it must be modern, it must be consistent with some principles and some framework of the legislative EU that we are seeking but also the whole world that does something similar. Of course, there are some differences, there are some nuances, and I repeat, the Working Group took care of this law. This law cannot be a lex specialis compared to other legal solutions. The Mining Act is one of, let me say, system laws, but it can't take precedence in an exploitation field compared to other laws. That is why we define raw materials of strategic interest and define for these raw materials certain procedures that should allow the process of research and exploitation to take place in a faster and more efficient way. If a special purpose plan had been adopted in Bor for RTB's needs, both Bor and Majdanpek, it would have made the whole process, when it comes to our Bora Copper Mine and Copper Mine in Majdanpek, more efficient, but while it is not and since it is not, requires full compliance with the relevant institutions, which are the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and which are probably well-intentioned. We're talking about ministries here, we're talking about Serbians, Serbians, Serbian Ways that simply require that certain procedures be respected. Without any planning, without any agreement, without any decision to get out of RTB, changing streams of rivers, changing roads, it must still be part of certain planning activities in the Republic of Serbia. We respected your remarks, not only were they yours, regarding lead and zinc and their accommodation in strategic raw materials, we were also for gold. For other precious metals we are not because the essence of something put into the framework is strategically also related to certain quantities, certain distribution and the like. I have a pretty close view of your export-related concentrate. I don't think that's good. If you listened very carefully to me when I talked about lithium this morning, I think we should as a state provide a set of measures to stimulate our ore treasure here to turn into final products, not to be exported as raw materials. I guess we can stimulate that without destimulating or finding some balance between those two things that sound similar but not the same. For this very reason, I repeat, we haven't changed anything in that section of the law that treats compensation for why the Ministry of Finance is preparing a new law that will take into account all the fees that as a state we charge for natural resources. I agree with you that the melting room should be competitive and that what you said should be fought to make sure that what is being dug up around Bora and processed there, if for no other reason, precisely because of what you said, travel costs, or transport costs are far less. I really don't know what happened in 2004, and we can't go into it right now, what happened to the RTB file in 2004, and whether any particular amount of that file was misused and based on it knew where to look for new findings, but I know we don't have the opportunity to ban those who want to do research in the empty space, to do research. Unfortunately, at a time when these investigative rights were sought, far before this government came and I became a minister, which is ten years old, those points were free and people were looking for investigative rights in free territory. On today, no one can dispute, as no one can even dispute the fact that a certain investigative right has been invested between $50 million and $100 million so far and that it has been invested precisely because of the existing law that gave the order of things. If the space is empty, someone may seek an investigative right, and if, in accordance with our law, they carry out all the research within the deadlines provided for it, they have the right to exploitation. That's why people invested $100 million and what now, as anyone in this country thinks, and I know it's not your opinion, say hello to Blagoja, how someone thinks someone invests $100 million in researching something and then let's say the dots aren't valid, you invested that $100 million, altruistic because you love Serbia, and now I want to do the exploitation. It's simply impossible, on the one hand, and on the other hand completely unnecessary. You yourself said, 1.3 billion certified reserves available to RTB Bor and that's more than 60 years of exploitation from the point of view of the current certified reserves. The Bor mining artillery base has no way of opening up and entering a serious story about financing the mine opening, where there are certified reserves. We don't have the money to invest in an increase in production in the Majdanpek Copper Mine. We're looking for strategic partners for that, and RTB Bor didn't pay us a mine rent, so I don't talk for how long. I absolutely respect the need to take care of Serbia, but we must also consider that in the mining business it is all Serbian companies, every company that opens and starts and works around Bora or anywhere, it becomes a domestic tax-paying company, all in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At the end of the day, it is a key question for me and this government whether they will pay us a fine rent, whether they will pay our taxes, whether they will pay for the profits, whether all the contributions will be paid, and that is the only difference we make between companies operating on the Serbian market. All the other differences are imaginary, all the other differences are just one empty story that always serves to lift a handpiece and do nothing and not develop this country. This government stands firm behind these solutions and goes without any dilemma in the development of mining in Serbia and no one will be able to hold his paw for decades in certain fields of investigation and justice with some patriotism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40433	The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40434	Madam President, honourable ministers, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only relate to what the minister has just said. We disagree with you, Mr Antiću, when it comes to the development strategy of the Serbian economy and everything that goes with the energy sector, above all about mining and geological research. First of all, the Strategy is written and it seems to us every time some elections are approached, that the strategies that are written as a list of good wishes, something that is difficult to implement in practice, something that does not correspond to the real state of things, when it comes to energy infrastructure and when it comes to the reality of energy in Serbia. We have lost track of whether Serbia will have reduced energy security over the next three years. You're saying that Bor participated in writing this strategy, and we think it's completely wrong that RTB Bor, I think you mentioned the Strategy and Bor in that sense, whether it's a strategy or it's a law, it's completely irrelevant, because we believe that Bor is in no way competent to give any suggestions or any suggestion or draft law, for the simple reason that his business is purely a state secret. If they told us how much Bor is due today and to whom it is all due and how much money it is and how much Bor is on the back of the state and how much it burdens the budget of the state of Serbia and many of them it would be clear why I am saying it. You yourself have said how long the mining rent has not been charged, and these are some things that must be taken into account when consulting the Resoring Ministry on such important drafts of law or strategy. There are no mixed feelings, as some have said even after the first reading of the law and the Strategy, and we have seen that the representatives of the ruling majority are also very skeptical when it comes to the implementation of the Strategy. What is related to the Mining and Geological Research Act itself is the first thing I notice, why or why the previous law could not be applied in practice. Whether it was the shortcomings in the sublegal acts, which was obliged even by your predecessor to bring in on behalf of or at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to implement the existing 2011 law. The interests of private companies or private entities in relation to state interests must not be more represented, and we believe, if they come into conflict, those two interests, that of course the state interest must be in front of the private ones. We must not allow the laws to be written in favour of tycoons, but must be in the public interest and therefore it is a matter of whether or not we are accusing, but now we are asking, certain tycoons, when it comes to mining and geological research, are behind the bill. What is the difference between the two laws, and this is what many MPs have asked today, among other things, and Mrs Comic, who is the authorised representative of the DS on this subject and what is the reason for the new law being passed, because we had a situation that in many parts of the two laws coincided and then we asked the question, okay, which is why there are no changes and additions, but also why in many things there are two laws, and we said that the first one is not enforceable and that it cannot be implemented in practice, first of all, from, of course, the negligence of your predecessor, which is not your personal responsibility. It certainly is the government's responsibility, because the government has had the opportunity to change politics several times or ministers, but the government as such has remained from 2012 until today in a more or less similar system. Investors, will money from the budget be spent to what extent when it comes to geological research? That was also one of my predecessors' questions. Is the licensing area subject to corruption, for example? That's also one of the questions I see is that there is a mix-up among guests in the National Assembly. And why didn't the law ultimately consult the strategy that was written in 2012? Unfortunately, the strategy has not been adopted, but it is surprising that new strategies are being announced, and it was written by the same experts who are sitting in your ministry today, as in 2012, before the new government took office that year. The strategy for the use of mineral resources by 2030 was in many cases a good basis for a new law and it is somehow illogical to pass a new law on the one hand without having previously adopted a strategy. I think the order of things is perfectly clear, that first we have to bring a strategy and only then adopt the law and we think that in this way some things are done faster and better and we ask and we don't know honestly why and for what reasons? Mr. Bačević, as minister, or your predecessor, failed or found that the 2011 law should be implemented and only a few sublegal acts should be adopted. I don't know if the public in Serbia remembers the minister, but he was very impressive, above all, according to his statements and announcements tens of thousands of euros in investments in Serbia, Eastern Europe, but also that famous channel via Morava, Vardar to the Aegean Sea. What remains somewhere is Bačević's dream, I'm sure there won't be a dream that will happen to all Serbs, as he says, but in any case he left a lot of bad things behind in those two years, that simply there were no things possible in the first year and your mandate to correct. What could have been corrected, and it wasn't, it certainly was a sublegal act that had to be adopted during these years while you were the minister. And this 2011 law we are certain that it could, or was possible to implement it even though it was obviously not of interest by the ruling majority. You say that the law provides sustainable development, protection, pardon, environment, and yet there is a lack of the strategy itself that needs to be talked about. All the other changes we have made, and we have also consulted those who have tabled proposals for the very draft of your solution, is the very university of the University of Belgrade. The Mining and Geological Research Act, according to them, was to be called the Geological Research and Mining Act, primarily because of certain chronology, primarily because of real activities, since geological research was first carried out and then if it was shown that it was technically-economically justified to access the design of mining works. We have also had a few amendments that I sincerely hope will be accepted since they do not represent God knows what, and no, they do not essentially interfere with your proposal for this solution. What's our skepticism from the beginning is to explain to us, if the one from 2011 couldn't be implemented and it works in practice, how are you going to implement this one from 2015? We believe that there are various restrictions that this law introduces should be corrected. First of all, we felt it was very bad that a long period of geological research moved from seven to eight years and a lot of other things, so now we don't get into little things. Citizens don't get it anywhere, and often they don't understand when it comes to various solutions, but we require answers to some basic questions for the simple reason why it's a great deal of interest. And when it comes to the energy strategy and the Mining and Geological Research Act, are there any side effects? Is the public interest above all and do you guarantee as a minister, since you are the minister who participated in the adoption of this energy strategy and this law, you guarantee that Serbia will have energy security not only for the next three years, which is also our skeptic, but in a period that represents decades and decades ahead of us? I would ask you, even if a few of these issues are dealt with today for the simple reason that we think it is important because of citizens who are quite certainly interested in the future development of Serbia that does not exist without these areas and when it comes to energy and when it comes to agriculture, these are, you know, the two greatest development chances of Serbia, food and energy. And for that reason, the DS insisted in its election programme that these two things be really essential to Serbia's development, and I'm sure that's how it's going to be for the simple reason why I'm asking you to join this debate because it's important for the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40435	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40436	I thank you for this discussion, of course. As far as the strategy is concerned, I have some impression that you've been a little confused with strategy and law, but let's first go when it comes to strategy. So we passed the Energy Act in December 2014. The Energy Act de facto gave some framework for the energy development strategy, in 2025 with a projection at 2030. After the strategy this Parliament will adopt, which we will report to Parliament, i.e. I think to the Committee at an annual level on its realisation, it defines as the next step of the strategy implementation programme. So, the strategy programme that the government will adopt for a period of six years is this detailed plan that will have all elements, deadlines, financial structures and the like, with passing times. I guarantee Serbian citizens that Serbia is an energy-resistant, stable country, which will not have a problem supplying energy, although in Serbia, due to various socio-political frameworks and political situations in Serbia, no new large energy facility has been built in 25 years. The last serious energy facility was built in 1991 and the first, first government, the first ministry to move into the new 350 megawatts from the thermo is this government and I expect every day that, after all the contracts have been signed, the preparatory activities are under way, that concrete activities on the ground related to Kostolac B3 will be launched. I repeat, we have no problem with our energy balance, first of all, for the reason that we have managed as Government to apply the directive on large pads to delay, to find solutions for these large blocks in this delaying application of the Big Bin Directive. I didn't have time to answer because there are always a lot of questions that require answers. When it comes to Bone B1 and B2, we're doing a detour. It's part of the project that's under way. In the case of a project related to TENT and decommissioning, unfortunately, for various reasons, which were, above all, related to certain irresponsibility in the earlier period, it was agreed that a Japanese non-responsibility loan was engaged for the thermoelectric power plant, without serious study of the rate of sulphur in colliberal coal being carried out. The project contained a project task to deal with the TENT's dedication process, saying that all the coal from the Kolubara that comes has 0.9% of the sulphur. This is not true, for the simple reason that the results of the research that were done in the Colombian mines gave a parameter that the maximum amount that was sampled in the Colombian coal was 9% of the sulphur and that the dimensioning of this project task on such a high scale was completely unnecessary when it was already known that the coal management project, which will lead to the homogenisation of coal from the Colubarian mines, and that this process will be completed in about 2017, and that each car of coal from the Colubarian mines will have its own declaration, which will show exactly what energy value is, which is the percentage of sulphur and other materials and is assumed to be all forecasting that it is from 0.6 to 0.7% of sulphur, and that it is a project at 0.9% of the total unnecessary cost for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because maintaining such a facility costs a lot of money and everything else. We deeply believe that we have time and I am absolutely certain that we have time, to first complete the coal management project, and only then do we go into providing these conditions for decommissioning in the TENT. So when it comes to energy security, we're done. The study of metal for 12 years, i.e. eight years, has been seven so far, and we have now predicted eight. The world's practice says - for a broom test for 12 years. So, we're still trying to press investors to speed up their activities, and I'm personally aware that it's a pretty tense deadline. So we didn't meet anyone or give any favors. Finally, I really think that it is incorrect in the lack of quality arguments to transfer the matter to Professor Bačević, who before me was in the role of the minister, who in one part dealt with mining affairs. The 2011 law was not good, and that's why it had to be changed. I'm saying today that the problem is the law, not the problem with being in a period of time when he was a professor. Bačević, in one part or in 2014 and 2015, when I was there, no sublegal acts were adopted. The problem was the law, not the lack of sublegal acts. For that reason, he's still a professor. Bačević went into the draft of the new Mining Act, and we just continued the process, or that process was in some, let's say, initial phase at Professor. It's a keg. We've created a new team, refreshed it with ideas and made this law the way it is and we stand firm behind the fact that this law is good. I repeat, it is not correct to mention now a man in a lack of quality arguments, because it is a professor of university, an extremely decent man, who performs the responsible function of our country's ambassador to the People's Republic of China and is really making every effort to provide for this country good contacts with Chinese companies, and it was really important, to say, a dizziness to the quality results of the visit to China that we had. A team before the tycoons were present, Mr. Bozovic, before this government, before Professor Bačević. At that time, the tycoons were buying mines and doing law writing, and these same tycoons destroyed all the mines they bought and I bought today, for a year and a half, I don't know how to get out of trouble with those big businessmen and the environmental disasters that they left me as a result of all that. Finally, if I understand you correctly, your only concrete objection to the very text of the law is that it's called the Mining and Geological Research Act, not the Geological Research and Mining Act. If that's the biggest remark, let it go on my soul, it's my fault and it's called the Mining and Geological Research Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40437	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Bozovic, do you think you have a replica? On what grounds? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I am mentioned. ) The minister only answered your questions. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: The minister mentioned me in a negative context. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40438	Because you talked to Mrs. Comic, and you didn't closely monitor my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40439	You see, we have the answer to that, too. The Minister didn't mention you at any time in a negative context. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I am mentioned, replica.]] (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: That's what you think. You think so? So, all that the minister said, you saw it as the truth that's directed to you. Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40440	It's a little strange, Mr. Minister, that you consider the period before Bačević bad, since we were together in that government, since you voted with us for all the legal solutions, including that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40441	Mr Bozovic, you think that you are tolerated by mentioning the former minister and something that has nothing to do with this subject, so I would ask you to try to avoid it, if you just want to replicate the minister, because you think he has offended you. Please speak in that direction. Everything else, and mentioning the former ministers, I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40442	Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40443	No, I don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40444	You don't want to, so you have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40445	I don't want to, because I had to interrupt and give an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40446	I just want my time back. Thank you. What's the point is it's strange that Mr. Antic, as minister in this case, has a rather controversial view of the period when his colleague Mr. Skundric served as minister in 2011 along with the DS, passed a law that you say is not good. We don't understand how it's possible that some law isn't good, and then you overwrite it, so you put it like now your law in 2015. It is not correct to be in that case unprincipled and to say that what happened before Mr. Bačević did not work, and Mr. Bačević was doing well. Well, if it was working, then why don't we have a channel to Thessaloniki? Why wasn't it good that Mr. Skundric...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40447	Mr. Bozovicu, do you think this is the topic of the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40448	Yeah, of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40449	Just explain to me, since I haven't read the Mining Act, just tell me where it stands in the law, the mention of the canal and everything?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40450	It's not only that you haven't read the law, Mr. Becic. You haven't read much of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40451	Mr. Bozovicu, I did read it and that's why I can interrupt you and say you're not talking about the subject. Thank you. It's been two minutes. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40452	You're funny, sir, if you don't let me finish, and I'm entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40453	It's been two minutes and 10 seconds. Please don't throw it away. At least that's how correct it should be on your side.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40454	I am absolutely a responsible man always behind what I've been doing. I absolutely support everything my party did years ago. However, I just need to warn you of two small details. I did not deny the whole period before Professor Bačević. I did not deal with such categorizations, but the Mining Act has nothing to do with Professor Skundric. It was brought at a time when Mr Oliver Dulic, on the one hand, was at the head of the cabinet, so the 2011 law was Dulic's law, although I didn't essentially think about it with you, but about the tycoon privatisations that were realised in 2007, Mr... (Zoran Zivkovic, from NIS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40455	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't let Mrs. Comic affect you when you throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40456	So, Mr. Bozovicu, with the end of this controversy with you, yes, I am absolutely behind what the Socialists are and what I was doing, the Dulic law, the privatisation of the mine in Serbia in 2007, all the privatisations led to these mines falling apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40457	I thank you, Mr Anticu. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40458	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so it's not easy, Mr. Chairman, to speak after the previous speaker. I think of the previous speaker before Minister Antić, the previous speaker of the great expert on this area, a well-known expert in the field of mining, energy, geological research, etc. You know how, Mr. Chairman, Dusko Radovic described it well. "There are many incompetent people who have come a long way, incompetent people can do anything, able only to do what they can." That's what I quoted Duško Radovica as saying. So the previous speaker even understands the digging of canals, navigation channels, so today, who knows what time, we had the opportunity to hear again about some channels, Morava, Thessaloniki, but also a few days ago in "News" to read the previous speaker's statement – rather the channel to Thessaloniki than take Vračar away from us, so he says – rather the SNS will build the Morava channel to Thessaloniki than beat the DS in the local elections in Vrakar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40459	Mr. Markovic, I'm asking you not to look like the previous speaker, who at the moment is throwing it away. Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40460	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm no expert on this area. I don't know much about mining, and I don't know much about digging canals, and I don't know when the famous Morava-Salun channel will be built, but what I know and what I know reliablely is that DS will lose to the Wizard in the next local elections, and that's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40461	Please, Mr. Markovic, give me something new, it's common knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40462	I thank you for warning me. When it comes to the draft law on mining and geological research, I would point out, for the sake of time and the SNS parliamentary group, only the most important elements that I believe will produce all the positive effects and contribute to the improvement of this area. So, I would stress, first of all, that by adopting this law, we create all the necessary conditions for the transparent issue of authorisation for the conduct of geological research, as well as the exploitation of mineral raw materials. By providing these conditions that will help to achieve the desired level of economic research, i.e. the exploitation of mineral resources and raw materials, we will directly stimulate further economic growth, as well as the chance of, I would say, strengthening sustainable development in the mineral raw materials sector, which will benefit the entire community, i.e. all citizens of Serbia. As no less important, I would like to point out that this law will make it possible to do more effectively the work of geological research on mineral resources, i.e. all mineral resources and raw materials, and especially research for the needs of spatial and urban planning, for the purposes of designing, building the facility, as well as the rehabilitation and recreation of the terrain in a preventive sense, and of those problems that can be caused by possible slides, which we have heard a lot about today, and I would not repeat all that my colleagues have already highlighted, as the most important. What is important, given the obligations relating to full implementation of EU rules, which we are simply obliged to apply to domestic legislation, which is another reason why I would call on us to support today's draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40463	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. He's not in the O.R. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister is not here, but I welcome him anyway, as well as all his associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat something that has been said countless times today, but I simply have to put this law on a much more serious foundation of one of the basics, I would say, first of all, strategic branches of the economy, which is mining, and with it, geological research. The law is very large by text and by number of members. I'm not going to say there aren't any other laws that big, but it certainly belongs to more than that. In addition, it is characterized by the fact that, as far as I'm concerned, not counting on the strategy to be adopted, it is envisaged by it, no less, no more, 15 sublegal acts to be passed over the next two years. But regardless, let's make this some kind of mild remark, because it's a matter of choice, but I think the accession of the law has come quite extensively, which doesn't have to be in itself a flaw. The question is who wrote the law whether it was defined as an extensive variant or something. In a different approach, of course, it could have worked differently. I think that, regardless of this large number of sublegal acts, which are foreseen, which the minister should bring, with several other such sublegal acts, then I will say something about, the law could be relieved of some ballast and it would be much, let me say so, I am not a lawyer, more usable, more operationally used, especially by non-legislators, as I am, and they are a predominant number among those who use the law and at least can essentially interpret it. I think the law in many segments is hard to follow, because you have members of the law that are written on a page, page and a half, and it seems to me on two sides. In addition, the very term, which has been made, speaks of interpreting the concepts used in the law, and then you have an interpretation of one concept on half a page or I don't know how many. Thus, such things could have provided, in addition to many, additional quality of this law. Then I'll tell you all about the law in general. I think the law lacks a more explicit component of data security, their secrecy, because they are of crucial importance to the country, so before this issue is of great importance because it is normal, the minister explained it very pragmaticly today, because we are in a situation, as it is everywhere in the world and he spoke about it, that first and due to the lack of funds that more and more foreign companies will come in and deal with geological research. I think the law makes up for the two things in it. So, a large number of everything that circulates, including on the security plan through this law, is placed in the power of the ministry itself, so there is no dispersing responsibility but responsibility is centralised and that's good. The other thing that can provide it is that the inspection was elaborated very broadly and well, but I think and I suggest that with those 15, that's one of the ones that I said should be another sublegal act, which the minister would have done, where many things would still be specified when it comes to labour inspection, because it applies mainly to the professional side, but should be incorporated into its workaround and this safety component. The minister made it very clear that we will be taking care of it and that we have to take care of it, because it is our treasure, but I think that the component should be more directly installed to ensure that some of the security stuff in this economic branch, which is very sensitive to it, is being represented. This strategy is mentioned, of course, not this strategy that we are discussing today, the Strategy on the management of mineral and other geological resources. I mentioned earlier, when you read the law in Article 12, the strategy is treated so you can't escape the impression that this strategy needs to be worked out through another sublegal act. She'd have to be wider than the law by her nature, at least that's how I look at it. And I don't think it's a mistake, especially because it's been made, don't let me make a mistake, I think by 2012, it's been working on that strategy, and then suddenly it's broken, so it's a good thing that this Article 12 that's going to make us do it and we have to do it as soon as possible. In that I would say and I would pray, Mr. Minister, that all these sublaws will be passed in two years, of course I can't be right away, but let this strategy have priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40465	Thank you. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40466	I'm just finishing up. I'll just say the next one. Allow me those few seconds. I think the law, no matter what I say, is one you can't get away from that impression, I've been reading it thoroughly, one of the best prepared with everything I've said here today, one of the best prepared, most comprehensive, most fundamentally done with a very broad public debate involving both science and practice and companies and all the institutions that touch this area. That is why I welcome this law and the PUPS parliamentary group will, of course, support this law and the strategy that is on the agenda today, which I have not talked about. Thank you for these fixed seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40467	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40468	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, it is no doubt that both sets or both of the legislative proposals in this set that we are discussing deserve extraordinary attention, as they are systemic legal solutions with far-reaching consequences for the future of the Serbian state. In my discussion, distinguished ministers, I will refer exclusively to the strategy of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, that is, to the development and in this direction not only to what our head of the parliamentary group pointed out through the support of this law, but also to certain suggestions that could contribute to the further period of development of the energy strategy which is beneficial. We must, first of all, look back at what is irrefutable, and it is unquestionably that through this energy strategy we are linked simultaneously to harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. As a reminder, the National Action Plan for the Use of Renewable Energy of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2013, was in force and as a document, was a kind of basis, a legal basis that should represent the possibility of stimulating investors in the area of renewable energy sources. The renewable energy sources are undoubtedly a cornerstone in terms of their participation in something that represents gross final consumption and a cornerstone of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia's energy strategy. Speaking of which, then, it should be pointed out that the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to have renewable energy sources participated with 20% of gross EU-level gross final consumption by 2020, with the Republic of Serbia obliged to increase and improve energy efficiency by 20%, and correct me if I am wrong, I think that there is also an overly ambitious goal that I believe is realistic, that in 2020 this participation in final energy consumption with renewable energy sources is 27%. I don't think that's unrealistic, and I think this government is on a good track for something that means faster and more effective implementation of this goal. Of course, this energy strategy also implies something that is also very important, which is a reduction in import dependence on energy from the one hand, on the other hand, the balance between energy production and available sources. In any case, it is about the goals which are and how important to the Republic of Serbia. It is about the objectives that make it possible, as described in the opening part of economic prosperity and economic growth. However, what seems to me to be being marginalized somewhere, and in any case should have very significant attention, at least here in parliament, when we are talking about an energy strategy, is integrated waste management in the Republic of Serbia. In this direction, neither legislative regulation nor anything that is actually done is enough that this waste could be used as something very important, so that it could be used as energy and could be used in energy production. What the European Community has long realised in its concept, Serbia still has at the beginning, and this is the excessive construction of a burner, then accumulation of waste and waste material needed for these burn plants and what is mentioned quite often today, where local self-government is. So here's where these criticisms are concerned, here's exactly where local self-government can be affirmed. To be affirmed exactly in the part where it is precisely pointing to what I now consider an important goal, which is what is institutionally defined or termologically defined as integrated waste management. The whole of Serbia has one problem that relates to insufficient concentration of waste in a way that implies its use for useful purposes. The most useful purpose is to convert waste into heat energy from which only citizens of Serbia can benefit. It seems to me that, in this direction of local self-government, not only because they do not have good legislation, but because there is a certain internality, they have not taken certain measures and activities that are related to identification and, after that, the concentration of so-called. wild dumps where there's a large amount of waste. One burner to work and produce enough energy for one city, a city of 100,000 inhabitants, those who understand this matter better, may correct me, but I hope I won't make a mistake, that from about a kilo to a pound of waste per capita, to form a quantity of 150,000 tonnes per year on that population. That's quite enough to build one burner that can service the needs of the entire city, so 150,000 inhabitants. We had such an example in the Zlatibor County and the initiative to build such a burn site on the territory of Užica City. Unfortunately, such a concept, although there is an idea, is not realised, but it is not just Užice, it is the whole of Serbia where this waste accumulation can be used in this way, where we can affirm this concept of bringing investors into Serbia and thus enable, under one, a large number of employees in new burners, another, to service the needs of citizens when what gives heat energy to them and so, in terms of living standards and basic elementary needs of the household, necessary, and finally, what is related to further stimulating precisely this concept of work. The reminders are that in Vienna, such a burner is placed in the city centre, so that citizens' prejudice about the potentially harmful consequences or negative emissions of such burners absolutely do not exist. There is no reason why technological processes and technologies have come to such a level that there is simply no possibility of having an impact on the environment in a negative sense of the word. I hope that in this direction, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will make additional efforts to make this very concept as I mentioned it, at the same time being parallel to other concepts that relate to biomass, wind parks, solar collectors, as energy production methods. In addition, I think that attention should be paid and something that is not used enough, is again linked to the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Serbia, which is insufficient use of hydropotentials, especially water streams that enable the establishment of so-called. mini-hydrocentres. In Serbia, however, this concept of building and establishing a mini hydrocentre has been under way long ago, but it is also a questionable fact that these potentials are being used insufficiently and that they have not yet been used in the way that the Republic of Serbia needs, and yet it has the consequences of bringing investors and all of the effects that arise as positive effects through investment. I call again to the end from which I come because these hydropowers, where they are located, are intended for construction, are something that can mean incentives for economic development and the Zlatibor County and other parts, or the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I, of course, apologize to you for not covering everything that the national strategy implies, but I focused on those points that I consider to be and how important they are when it comes to the energy development of the Republic of Serbia. All of this, along with what our authorised representative said, gives enough reason to accept exactly the proposal for a strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia's energy by 2025, with all that I have pointed out as an extremely well-intentioned suggestion, so that what is related to the energy strategy, or the development of energy in the Republic of Serbia, will rise to an even greater level. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40469	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, has the word, and let the Messenger Vladimir Orlic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's sessions, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Antić, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry. I'm not the field expert we're discussing today on these two agenda points. But, as is the order, gentlemen, we, the MPs, have consulted with members of the New Party Council, who are researchers in these areas. After these consultations, I can freely say that this is about one thing, Minister Antic, basically a good bill. However, we have submitted 25 amendments. And I look forward to the amendment debate to see where it is possible to agree to the approaches of you who wrote this proposal and us who, despite the fact that this is a good bill, have submitted amendments that we believe, if adopted, could make this law even better. And I guess that's the idea of making MPs in the legislative body. Here I am, through several examples of respected gentlemen, going to state what our intervention is about. For example, Minister Antic and we feel that we should consider this name of the law. We offered an argument, and we also believe that geological research should go first, then mining. Here I have A and B, so you do a little bit of thinking after facing arguments to see if it stays as you suggested or as we suggest. We believe that geological research precedes mining. They last while exploiting raw materials. It's under A. Pod B, we claim here, many of the geological research mentioned in the bill have no direct link to exploitation or mining. It's enough for us to conclude that it's convenient to consider changing the name, for example. We'll wait for an amendment debate to determine if you'll accept it. The second thing, in terms of definitions, we suggest changing the definition of two concepts. Probably your associates and associates have noticed that our intervention, but I'm only going to point out that we've been looking for one intervention since it seems to us that it's not sufficiently precise what needs to be an exploitation field and that it leaves one opportunity to define different levels in depth now to the centre of the country. If we didn't go to the center of the country, we'd have to define here as precisely as possible this term so that there wouldn't be a dilemma for those people who do research in this area. I think we've done it very precisely. The third thing we suggested, it was heard today and here, there are probably more identical amendments, to be classified into strategic raw materials lead and zinc. I believe there's no dilemma about it. It is likely that the amendment will be accepted, but the same amendments in the same text of other MPs we also propose. This is an important place for us, Minister Antića, and for these discussions on the future of our country, that the fee paid by the exploitation carrier for oil and gas is 10%, not 7% as you suggested. Of course, always mentioning this thing is one opportunity to remind ourselves of the adverse effects of signing those agreements that were mentioned in 2007 and 2008. We believe, Minister Antic, that the debate on this matter is a good reason to think about revising these contracts, because one thing that was related to these contracts, the most important thing, I think Mr. Zivkovic will talk about it more, it no longer exists. If that important thing doesn't exist, then what obliges us to bind ourselves to this percentage without changing it to more, honored gentlemen? And of course, since we're pedantics in terms of spelling and grammar of Serbian language, that we always read first whether there's a literal error, whether there's a note, a letter, a sign of a missing interpretation, we've noticed that there are some minor shortcomings here too, and, of course, we've submitted amendments in this section in order for all of us here together to have one agreement that the laws have to be precise in terms of language. It's the only way we can ensure respect for the great rule of law. I believe these amendments will also be accepted. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40471	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. And I, Mr. Minister, join the application to accept some amendment, because it will be at 8.5% of the gentlemen if you accept any amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40472	I'd first of all like to thank all the debaters since my last announcement. Mr Kovacevic, thank you for supporting the law and thank you for pointing to certain issues that need to be regulated by sublaws. In line with what you said, the sublegal act should be passed and adopted quickly, efficiently and should respect the greatest part of your suggestions. We will take your attention once again, after the session session, a stenogram of your presentation and try to operate through the sublegal act. Also, I would like to thank Mr Jovanovic for one thing, it is really not my place to appreciate the discussions of the MPs, they all have, of course, their own quality, but at one reference to certain issues from the energy development strategy. I want, of course, to underline exactly what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about. The issue of municipal waste, the question of putting it into function to build new energy facilities, which by definition should be combined nature and to produce heat and electricity, are indeed at the top of our priorities. First of all, we need to know that it's a significant energy source. It's about annual capacity, or an annual potential of 250,000 tons of equivalent oil, so we simply don't have the right not to use it as energy. For this reason, I welcome all the activities that local self-government implements on this issue and invite them to be even more active. Waste management is primarily a communal topic, from the domains of local self-government and, together with the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in this triangle we need to ensure that such projects are implemented. What is important is that Belgrade has gone really far to realize its waste management project, which includes building heat to waste. They're close by, they've passed a serious procedure in the process of providing partners for the realisation of the job. It's an international tender. I believe it will be a good incentive for everyone else. An additional incentive for everyone else is now an agreement that we signed in China with representatives of the Chinese state-owned company CMEK, a memorandum of understanding that is heading towards the realisation of the construction of waste plants. This agreement is a good wind in the back above all for Novi Sad, I believe Nis and Kragujevac, who should seriously analyse the possibility of building these cogeneration plants for, I repeat, electricity, heat energy, and I also think that this option that is now current, the creation of regional dumps should lead to a correlation with the use of municipal waste. I highly respect and respect every effort of the Members of Parliament to repair the legal project, the legal solution. When we analyse the amendments in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the ministries, we do not really see whether they came from the ranks of opposition or ruling parties, but are approaching their consideration from the point of view of the promotion of the law. I repeat, we have received hundreds of amendments from MPs and the ruling majority and opposition and we will come out in the government tomorrow with a proposal to accept 35 amendments. Among them are some of your amendments, Mr Pavicevic. I repeat, we appreciate the effort you've had to really come up with some solutions that will improve this law. We've already said this about lead and zinc. On certain technical matters, I really think that when we prepare the law, we're going to have to hire a top-notch lecturer. If there wasn't a conflict of interest, we'd hire you, but it wouldn't be right. And finally, I really didn't experience the question of the name of the law to that extent essential. De facto, the final product is mining and we're starting to make sense that this country must have a mining law, of course, and geological research. We're starting with a final product. Let's just think about it a little bit more, and we'll be out of here tomorrow by the government's meeting with some of our attitudes. At the very least, when there's a debate on the amendments here, we're the last time we've adopted the Energy Act, it seems to me, eight amendments when we heard their argument from the MPs. I know my associates aren't very happy about my soft personality structure, but we'll see and hear the explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40473	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I think she was happy with this information, because it will significantly improve the percentage, even over 9%. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40474	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the proposals on the agenda today. First of all, the proposal for a strategy for energy development in our Republic, and in this sense I join a common convincing assessment set up in this room today, that it is in today's form as a good, strong, modern response to those challenges that exist in this sector today. A modern, strong response, which I consider to be the most important quality in relation to the proposed text. I also commend that it foresees an increase in the incidence of renewable sources in total electricity production, which provides for an increase in efficiency in this process. These are all important aspects. On my side, I'm undermining two more. One aspect of energy security, discussed today by counterpart Marinkovic, and in the context of the diversification that has been mentioned today, but also in the context of the reduction of dependence on imports, i.e. on external parameters. This is particularly important because any kind of project, any common social tendency of this kind, is potentially a significant investment. For example, introducing diversity and reducing external dependence through, here, just one example, let's look at it as it looks. Some inter-city hotline that would go, say, from the direction of Obrenovac towards our capital. Although, truth be told, it would mean a significant investment in all current studies, it could be paid very quickly, and it would be a very good answer to this very question. I'm convinced there's more than one such example. Also, the proposal for a law on mining and geological research, due to those differences compared to the existing law that was spoken about in this room today, although in one I agree with my colleague Zivkovic, who I share with the MPs' benches, in general in this sector we could not say that the 100 per cent situation is pink, if we compare it to some personal desires about the reality that is in the sector. I respect reality, and that's why I don't have a huge problem with this bill, but I remind you that it doesn't prevent us from doing it together in the direction that when the conditions come together we might be correcting. Political work and implies exactly that, the formation of the reality that we consider most acceptable, which we consider to be the most approximate of any common state interest. Let's go back to the differences compared to the existing solution. First of all, since this bill of law, and I particularly welcome it, provides continuity in law enforcement. Continuity that has long been gone due to the problem of the relationship between the local self-government units to the collokial powers offered, or powers due to lack of interest in them. Now that question is properly resolved. Also, because of the measures that achieve a more efficient realization, more effective research work. More efficient in what way? Through the simplification of procedures, through clearer general conditions, through clearer conditions for technical documentation, through clearer and more precise deadlines, as we heard today, it is a sector where investment is significant, the order size is really large, they are long lasting, and the value of the end product compared to all this relatively small. Therefore, in terms of cost-effectiveness, it is crucial. I also welcome the introduction of the definitions of those materials, the resources considered of strategic interest, the possibility of strategic interest, that is, the declaration in this sense, that I interpret as the possibility that the system is further responding to the question of improving efficiency where it is particularly important, and everything is very important, the order of size of hundreds of millions of euros that have been spoken of today in all investments in the field of research to date, is becoming a potential investment for orderly size, more significant if this leads to some end of the story in terms of opening the mine, as I believe, we all wish together. At the very end, you know that I always welcome when such a thing can be pointed out and seen, and I welcome and increase the level of availability and the public, i.e. the promotion of this aspect, through the security of an adequate modern information system. Transparency and accelerated modernisation remain the focus of our political interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40475	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The word has a folk MP Ivana Dinić. Here you go, Mrs. Dinic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40476	Dear President, the honourable ministers with representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are presently two very important draft laws that will fundamentally change and improve areas that define and what is very important so far and that it will open one big and huge so far only partially used the potential of investment in the area of one of the most significant economic branches. It is, in fact, a draft law on mining and geological research, as well as a proposal for a energy development strategy by 2025, with projections by 2030. So far, there have been insufficient rational laws on mining and geological research, but the major problems that have accumulated over the last years and even decades have burdened these areas. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the great pawnage of the Ministry of Energy and Mining along with a large number of experts and experts from this area from universities, colleges, from different professional organisations, from the NGO sector, etc. public debates confirmed the circumstances of the adoption of these laws, to complete a cycle of reforms that began before and continued the government of the Republic of Serbia. These reforms include, in particular, legislation on the adoption of laws that are applicable, which are effective, laws that allow new and provide for new investments, laws that allow new jobs to be opened, compliance with the regulations and legal provisions of the European Union and, of course, laws that can be proud and timely to those who use them and those who apply them. When it comes to the draft laws on mining and geological research, the reason for the regulation of these areas is one law, not specific laws, or specific legal solutions, which are essential in nature and is reflected in the relationship between these two areas. Because without geological research, first of all, mineral resources and reserves wouldn't be exploited, and without exploiting geological research, I wouldn't have a purpose. In fact, in the history of the legislative regulation of the Republic of Serbia, it is known that issues in the field of mining and geological research have been regulated by unique regulations since the Law on the Mines of the Despot of Stefan Lazarevic in 412, later the Mining Code of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and until today. However, what actually interests citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens is what this law adopts, in which it facilitates the functioning of everyday life for them and how it regulates the energy sector. The proposed law lays down mineral raw materials which are of strategic importance for our country and regulates issues of transfer of authorisation for the conduct of geological research, as well as approvals for the exploitation and compensation to the owner of land to the Republic of Serbia or an autonomous province, in the event of illegal research or exploitation. This law took into account all the necessary alignments and translations of the European Union Directive into our legislation. The new law that we are talking about today enables more efficient work of geological research to be done, also enables more efficient exploitation of mineral raw materials, will encourage the development of mining, will regulate the prevention and elimination of the harmful consequences of mine exploitation and closure. The new law will also allow effective collection of fees for the performance of these research and exploitation activities, also defining the state's revenues, will realise the issue of licences in the field of mining and geology and will increase sanctions for the conduct of geological research and exploitation, contrary to the provisions of the law. What is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, trust has been taken away from the units of local self-government. It is proposed to delete the obligation to pay compensation for the exploitation of geothermal sources to attract investments in the area of use of these resources. Also, a major contribution is that natural persons will be able to use these resources for water supply and for the purpose of providing heat to the family household of a natural person. The adoption of this law will create conditions for the transparent issue of authorisation to carry out the work of geological research, as well as the exploitation of mineral raw materials, further, will reduce the number of documents that are necessary to propose, i.e. improve the conditions for creating a greater contribution to the future and stimulating economic growth. However, what I must consider is safety at the work of our miners. There's a big problem in the field of safety at work. Also, there is degradation in the area of environmental conservation, and major problems arise in the health of people in municipalities where exploitation is carried out. That is why it is very important to continue the process of modernising our mines, and more importantly to keep it safe and to start doing a little more environmental conservation, because, the fact is that Serbia is extremely rich in ores and mineral raw materials. Serbia is a country which, thanks to the reforms it is constantly implementing, can provide itself with a good path, a good basis for development, especially those of undeveloped parts and regions of Serbia which are also the richest regions in Serbia in terms of ore and mineral raw materials. After discussing previous speakers from the SPS parliamentary group, I will look a little at the energy development strategy by 2025, for the reason that the Republic of Serbia has a great energy potential that has so far been partially exploited, insufficiently and perhaps inadequately exploited. That is why, however, and because of great potential, it is necessary to define a path and a strategic definition on which energy development in the Republic of Serbia will actually be based. What is very important is that the positioning of national energy leads towards market restructuring and technological modernisation of Serbia. In this respect, it is precisely this strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia that should produce one relevant energy policy, because energy is the backbone of one economic development, it is a key factor and a driver of all economic change. This energy policy should aim at several things, which is to start reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing electricity production from renewable energy sources and increasing energy efficiency levels for all directions of energy development. Realising the importance and importance of adopting these Bills, which, in a very transparent, systematic and systematic way, make it possible to create a well-organised, stable and developed energy sector, and thus also to create businesses. The SPS MPs will support those draft laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40477	Thank you, Mrs. Dinic. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40478	Dear chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow the public work of our parliament. Today, we have a very important proposal for legislation and a proposal for a 2025 strategy with projections by 2030. According to our discussions today, this is a very important topic that we are dealing with today. How important this area is is the fact that we are yet to be expected by investment investments by economic operators in the areas concerned. Mineral resources, groundwater resources, geothermal resources are natural goods in state property and have strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, which allows for the implementation of the expropriation procedure according to specific regulations. This law characterises that they've been deprived of their trust in the task force of local self-government and I would now say that it's not the happiest solution, but the state has to find some kind of moduso that local self-government is going to ask whether something is right for them and for their interests at all. Also, this law is closer to defining the conditions for obtaining licences from the same areas. They shall be regulated and defined by the means of issuing licences. The law should make it possible to perform more effectively the work of geological research of all mineral resources. The law introduces control over the use of resources and reserves of groundwater and geothermal resources so that personal benefits will also have natural persons when it comes to individual water supply or the provision of heat from family households, natural persons, and all this with the consent of the ministry responsible for the affairs of geology and mining. What will be achieved by passing this law? Well, first, conditions will be created to stimulate economic growth and sustainable development will be supported in the mineral raw materials sector that benefits Serbian citizens. This law allows for more effective geological research for the needs of spatial and urban planning. When it comes to the effects of this law, it leaves me with a special impression that this bill has an immeasurable impact when natural disasters are at issue and the fact that we cannot control them, but through this law we can at least reduce their negative impact on nature and objects by quality planning and sustainable use of space, and by geological research we come to data on the categorization of the building grounds, where unstable slopes and potential slides, where the deposits of mineral raw materials, where underground waters are located, all research allows for the production of engineering geological bases, which create the possibility of proper selection of the purposes of certain space and safe construction, which reduces the risk of geological gambling and risk. So the experience of European countries clearly states that one dinar invested in prevention returns seven dinars, in the event of natural disasters, and we will achieve this if we have adequate engineering geological and geotechnical documentation for each level of spatial and urban planning. As an example of good practice, I would like to highlight the activity of my local self-government which, in the second half of 2009, in collaboration with the Mining and Geological Faculty, took on certain investigative works, to realize the study of the evaluation of groundwater resources and the possibility of multi-purpose use in the territory of the town of Cačka. The survey was conducted in December 2009 – August 2010, it was conducted full of research in methodological terms, I mean field, laboratory and cabinet research. The basic idea of making this study was to collect, process and analyse all data on the hydro-geological characteristics of the town of Cačka and therefore establish a representative hydro-geological observation network where multidisciplinary research of groundwater was conducted over a period of eight months and, as a final result, the reonisation and valorisation of the most prospective areas for future detailed research, in the sense of practical application of the results obtained, i.e. the start of investment in relation to commercial use of groundwater in the territory of the municipality. Based on the research carried out, the synthesis of the results obtained, the relevant conclusions were carried out, the most prospective locations were isolated and a recommendation was given for future work. The study covers the territory of the town of Cačka, the area of 636 km square and Cačak is the first city in Moravička County to implement a study of this type. Perhaps as an example of good practice, this activity should also be done by other local self-government. When we talk about the strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025, it is essential to say that it aims to achieve energy security, create energy markets and function sectors according to the principles of sustainable development. For optimal energy development in line with modern society requirements, it is necessary to significantly improve the educational, professional and scientific research potential of the country, and by coordinating the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Science and Education, it will affect the country's education system and the creation of strategic, scientific and economic programmes, which will monitor and support the envisaged number of energy development, energy technologies and related legal and economic areas. The strategy provides for systematic work to raise institutional capacities and units of local self-government due to their competence in the area of heat energy, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources, but also because of the fact that local self-governments are working directly with citizens, so their role in the motivation and promotion of rational use of energy is very important. The key starting point of this strategy is that energy development must be in the function of economic growth. Energy development should contribute faster to the development of existing economic branches and allow for the development of new production and service activities of energy development in Serbia, and this has a very social dimension and therefore changes in energy must be socially acceptable and sustainable. For sensitive and socially endangered consumer groups, the state provided adequate treatment and introduced measures to improve the position of socially endangered energy-protected customers. These measures will continue to develop and certainly improve. State aid in the Republic of Serbia is a particularly sensitive institutional and legal issue, as many energy entities are public enterprises. Public enterprises must respect the right to competition, because only with respect to the principles of transparency can the energy market function economically and technologically efficient and with respect to the rights of producers. Sustainable development in the field of energy, is globally oriented towards a policy to combat climate change, but is fundamentally directed towards a balance between economic development objectives, the right to energy, as part of human rights and the right to a healthy environment. In the Republic of Serbia, it is very important to create a critical mass of necessary personnel, projectors and contractors in the next medium term, which will be able to monitor and stimulate the growth of the use of renewable energy sources and in the period until the middle of the century. In the voting day, I will also support this legislative proposal and the strategy proposal, along with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40479	I thank Mrs. Djokovic. Ljiljana Malusic has a folk letter, and let the Messenger Milos Tosanic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40480	Thank you. Dear Chairman, guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the proposal for a strategy to develop the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030. This Law proposes the path of market restructuring and technological modernisation of the Republic of Serbia's energy to better prepare for a period of growth of general demand for goods and services. A strategic approach to energy implies that the process of economy and the state, as well as in the lives of citizens, takes place at lower economic costs and higher levels of social and environmental sustainability, a higher standard of population with a reduction of pollution and better protection of nature. First of all, it should be said that energy is the backbone of a complete economy, unfortunately it is also the largest polluter of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the rise in population in the 20th century, which reached 3.7 times the increase, energy consumption itself has increased by 30 times. That's why this strategy is being made. It stands out in 2015, so in a month, and the new one has projections first in 2020, then 2025, then 2030, which is very important. What to say is that the strategy should contribute to economic and social policy, as well as other policies, primarily environmental protection, a better standard, a better complete society. International energy agencies have estimated, based on research, that between 2005 and 2025, energy consumption will increase rapidly and will increase by 40%, which is a high percentage. That's why we need to do it rationally and do this strategy well. You should also think about future generations. Energy represents one of the largest contaminants. Unfortunately, we have quite antiquated technology, I hope that this will improve in some foreseeable period. What else is capital to be said for this strategy? First of all, global development assumes an economic, or economy based on efficient use of relatively clean energy sources. That's the most important thing. Then, it needs to be based and it is a projection for 2020, to renewable energy sources. Then, attention should be paid to the environment, in terms of environmental protection. As far as the environment is concerned, there has been a large summit in Paris for two days, where 147 statesmen and governments have gathered. In fact, there are two capital issues in the world, i.e. three. These are climate protection, i.e. climate change, wars and terrorism. What I would point out is that I can't talk about wars, I'm not competent and I don't want to hear about them, but the climate, that it's necessary, to use renewable and clean energy. That's the point of this whole strategy. What else do you say? First of all, we need to pay attention to the prices. Of course, energy is a commodity and as such must be competitive on the market and must have its retail price. The point of the retail price story is that all types of taxis, environmental taxes, or environmental protection, must enter that price. Energy resources, of course we divide them into four basic species. These are, above all, fossil, then conventional, they include coal, oil and natural gas, then unconventional oil shale and I would mention the most important, renewable energy sources, that's also the point of our entire strategy, which is the energy of water streams, wind, not accumulated solar energy, then the mass, was mass of animal origin, geothermal energy, biofuels, bio gas, synthetic gas, etc. As far as coal is concerned, the highest percentage of coal in Serbia that is represented is lignite or dark, soft coal, care has 97%, only 3% of waste on other types of coal. The largest percentage of reserves is located in the Kosovo-Meto-Meto-Hian base, with 4.5 billion tonnes, and the rest is in the Kostalack and Kolubar base, with four billion tonnes. As far as oil is concerned, it's quite exploited. The highest percentage is in the AP Vojvodina. The largest sites are in the Pannonian Base. Scientists, or our experts, came to the knowledge that in 2000, they did research and oil reserves in 2010 amounted to about 10.14 million tonnes. The oil was quite exploited, which is why oil production fell. As for oil shale, the highest percentage, or reserves, are located in the Alexine Basen, then in Krushevac and Vranjska Basen. As for oil shale, their reserves are 4.8 billion tons of shale. The Republic of Serbia does not have nuclear or balance-cutting nuclear raw materials. There are supposed to be only about a thousand tonnes of uranium in all of Serbia. What else do you say? It should be said that renewable energy potentials, the highest percentage is also in the AP Vojvodina. The resources are 6.65 million tens per year, as far as the potential of the energy source is concerned. Then, bio mass represents a significant energy potential. It's got about 3,448 million tans. Of which, the largest part is wood biomass, 1.57 million tens and the potential of agricultural biomass, which is 1.67 million tens. The wind energy is extremely favorable. I hope that in the near future that energy will be used much more, as will the solar energy, because we have an extremely large number of days. Of course, the wind energy is where the blow works. So, part of the Bather, Zlatibor, south Banat. As far as geothermal energy is concerned, Serbia is filled with thermal waters. It is not known which one is more beautiful in the Republic of Serbia, than Vranjska Banja, Bogotačka, Vranjačka Banja, Sijarinska Banja, and not only that it will be, not only are these resources and they are pure energy for the future but also potentials for tourism and, above all, health tourism. The energy system of the Republic of Serbia consists of the oil sector, the natural gas sector, the coal sector, of course, and the electricity sector. The electricity sector consists of electricity sources for electricity generation, then thermal power plants, thermal power plants and hydropower plants and electricity transmission systems through which an efficient energy transmission is carried out. What should be said is that currently in Serbia 57 cities have remote heating, which is very good, with a tendency to expand it. The total consumption of final energy in the Republic of Serbia in 2010 was 9,696 million tens. What else would I point out? The key priorities of the energy development of the Republic of Serbia are security primarily energy security, then the development of the energy market, what is very important, the overall transition to sustainable energy. The Republic of Serbia has accepted and signed, ratified a treaty on the establishment of an energy community, which is very good, primarily because of cross-sectoral business, and then because of the security of the Republic of Serbia and the stability of our country. It may also be said that the five main priorities of energy development in the Republic of Serbia are, above all, the technological modernisation of energy systems, the efficient use of energy, the benefits of using energy facilities that simultaneously produce electricity and heat, the use of renewable energy sources, that is, a projection for 2020 and perhaps building energy infrastructure, so that it relys more specifically on the European infrastructure plan and infrastructure systems. The problems that the strategy should address are, above all, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing electricity production, increasing energy efficiency levels, and the goal of adoption, I have already said and it should be stressed, in fact, and the whole point of this strategy is based on clean and renewable energy. What I'd say about the end, thank you for your attention and of course the SNS will vote for both of these laws. I didn't mention, the second law is the Mining and Research Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40481	Thank you. The word is Mr Milos Tosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40482	I thank you for your word, Chairman. Gentlemen and ladies of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this Mining and Geological Research Act is concerned, the reason for the adoption and adoption of the same law has multiple benefits that he brings. The first reason is better regulation of matter, which this law regulates in terms of clearer and more precise definition of the provisions themselves. All this was done in order to improve efficiency and to improve the application of the law itself. One of the things that shows seriousness in the making of this law is that it has been done systematically and most importantly, the results of the current law have been examined. What made me the strongest positive impression, is that this law also makes a detailed regulation of the rules relating to the recycling of closed mining facilities, i.e. the surface. In this way, from abandoned and useless surfaces are created something that is essentially the opposite, an extensive range of work, and it can be, for example, a working surface, a hammock area, a space for some factories and something like that. Also, this law brings important changes and additions to areas such as the right to use natural resources, regardless of whether they are geothermal springs, groundwater and so forth. Also, compensation for the use of geothermal energy is being abolished, in order to encourage the use of it due to the reduction of pollution, economic viability, as well as the attractment of investments in order to economic development of the Republic of Serbia. All efforts made in the making of this law are aimed at making mining as productive, more efficient and environmentally acceptable as possible, with the ultimate goal that goes far into the future. Generally speaking, this law in one right way shows the government's quest to make as much progress and modernisation as possible, and what is very important to be applicable, not only in terms of criminal provisions, but all those that make it possible to work in new fields, which has not been the case so far. Another positive way to characterize the work group's work, which I would like to praise at this time, which has prepared this law, is that there was no mere copying of EU law, but was in one systematic way a step at a time, fully in line with what Serbia has and is within the scope of mining. In this way, the abundance of the law itself has been avoided, as well as the inclusion of some concepts of mining that have not been achieved with us. I hope that with the adoption of sublegal acts, which will give full meaning and value to this law, this law will be the support of both the existing systems that we already possess in the country and the opening of new ones. It's this particular sentence that I'm finishing the discussion about this law. I move on to the strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia's energy by 2025 with a projection by 2030. This strategy also provides for a detailed regulation of the future structure of the energy system in terms of how much energy will be represented, e.g. for the production of electricity. Anyone who has read this strategy can clearly conclude that the advantage is given to obtaining energy through the use of renewable sources, hydrocenters and the use of energy that are least polluting the environment like natural gas. From this point on, it can be concluded that this strategy is in full compliance with regulations and regulations not only of the EU, but also of all other countries that are struggling to preserve the environment and a healthy ecosystem in general. It should also be noted that all results, at least not this high, cannot be achieved, as the people say, overnight, but it takes time. Therefore, this development strategy also covers the period until 2025 with a projection by 2030. During this period ahead of us, we need to work hard and invest in what we certainly know will be worth it. Because another positive thing being created is that at one point in time, when energy reaches certain capacities, we will be able to export electricity, which is our goal. As for mineral resources, i.e. coal, gas reserves, etc., a detailed analysis of the situation was made. This analysis implies a precise assessment of the quantity of ore. Also, a plan that implies using ore, i.e. fossil fuels, has been made, taking into account all aspects that must be met. In particular, it refers to the reduction of greenhouse gases, as well as all other harmful impacts resulting from the use of fossil fuels. What could also be pointed out is that this development strategy sets long-term targets for the development of production capacities that have the capacity to provide security in energy supply. All objectives set are of course in line with all economic and technological criteria, as well as those relating to environmental protection. This document, this strategy, represents one serious plan, a study of energy sector developments over a decade and more. It relies on the previous Strategy, and will also provide future planning and planning for the energy sector. It certainly plays a major role in monitoring all energy resources, as well as their exploitation, both in non-renewable and renewable energy sources, until their end-use. One such strategy can provide a real analysis of all parameters, which participate in the production of final energy, and therefore make an energy budget of investments from which profits will be clearly seen on the basis of the market that can be estimated based on the previous supply and demand period. This balance, not only must be positive, but the energy wallet must also satisfy and allocate funds for as much investment in renewable sources as possible, more efficient use, as well as conservation of ecosystems. This strategy must become one dynamic application with all relevant data to create a situation in the energy sector, starting with available resources, supplies, facilities, and until final energy consumption. Finally, it could be said that this development strategy covers all elements of importance for achieving all energy policy objectives. Therefore, the conclusion is only one, which is that this strategy, in each respect, is elaborated on a system of details and will certainly contribute to a better, safer, more stable, economically more cost-effective and greener economic system of the Republic of Serbia as such. I wish the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia a lot of success in further work and I express my gratitude that you have invested so much that this strategy is brought to this end by the Mining and Geological Research Act. My little one will vote for both these proposals, both for the law and for the strategy. In that name I welcome you and thank everyone else for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40483	Thank you, Mr. Toshanic. The word has a National MP Branimir Rancic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40484	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Becic, Mr Antiću, the Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is in front of us today, in my opinion, very important, if not the most important, law – the proposal for a law on mining and geological research. I feel the need, as well as the moral obligation to talk about it, because I was born and I finished primary school at the Alexine mine, which will say that I spent my childhood with the life of Emile Zola. The reasons why it is proposed to adopt a new Mining and Geological Research Act are reflected in the need for a more complete regulation of the performance of geological research and mining activities. The analysis of the effects of the implementation of the Mining and Geological Research Act, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 88/11, identified the need for a change and addition of certain standards, in order to achieve the goals that were intended to be achieved by its adoption as best and more effective. This law, in Article 1, also defines the measures and activities of mineral policy and the way it is implemented, the policies of the development of geological research and mining, as well as the management of mining waste, as well as the process of rehabilitating and recultivating abandoned mines, mining facilities, which will be the motto of my today's presentation. The paper in the proposed text of the law is to define more fully the treatment of abandoned mines and mining facilities which have occurred until the date of entry into force of this law, and due to the irregular suspension of mining works and the abandonment of mining facilities without the technical and technological recovery and recycling procedures applied, which are not known or no longer established by the authorisation holder for the exploitation field and cannot be determined by ownership of the space in question. In order to take a closer look at the effects of amendments and additions to the applicable law, this law should address the issue of dealing with abandoned mines and mining facilities that have been created until the date of entry into force of this law, as a result of the irregular suspension of mining works and the abandonment of mining facilities and issues related to land recultivation following the completion of mining works which are essential for the protection of the environment and the safety of human health. Also, according to the proposed changes, the economic operator will bear the costs associated with the procurement activities necessary for the recovery of mining works, including the cost of biological and technical recycling, and as costs for the same operators, it can be expected to provide 30% of the amount foreseen for the main mining project for recovery and recycling operations, with 30% of the average costs of the same area being about 5,000 euros per hectare per hectare per hectare on the day of work being carried out. The management of mining waste, abandoned mines, temporary suspension of mining works, permanent suspension of works, planned permanent suspension of works, as well as rehabilitation and re-culation has been defined by members 144 to 153 of this law. In particular, I underline that the Government will determine the conditions, criteria, programming, procedure and way of resuscitating and resuscitating abandoned mines and mining facilities as referred to in Article 146(1) of this Law. The funds needed to resolve the resolution and re-cultivation of abandoned mines and mining facilities are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. From a socio-economic point of view, when a public company conducting an exploitation in the event of a planned suspension of mining activity, Article 152 is required to develop a mine closure programme previously. The programme contains, among other things, very important measures such as one – the need to address the problems of local communities caused by the suspension of mining activities in the mine area that is closing. Under two – the adoption of an extra-employee resolution programme in accordance with the law, under three – solving the problem of environmental protection caused by the closure of mines. Finally, in order to protect the lives and health of employees, the economic operator is obliged to adhere to the safeguard measures of Article 129 to 143 in order to avoid mining accidents as it happened in Aleksinc at the Aleksinian mines in 1989 when life lost 90 miners. I will end my presentation with a mining greeting, a greeting from the Camarada – HAPPY. In voting day, as they say, I'll vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40485	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40486	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are facing today a very important law, a law that has capital importance for energy, but only for energy, it has capital significance for our country's economic development, which is certainly one of the strategic definitions and priorities of both the government and the competent ministry. It is the Mining and Geological Research Act, and my colleagues have already pointed out that this law is of great importance, above all, from an economic aspect precisely because the opening of new mines, the employment in the mines of one worker, draws seven more to ten workers from various service activities, so that the adoption of this law is certainly important from the point of view of improving, i.e. increasing the number of employees who all contribute to the economic development of our country. The Mining and Geological Research Act and how important it is also from the point of view of the identification of mineral raw materials and this law have established mineral raw materials that are of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, but geological research has also been established in terms of hydro geothermal water and groundwater which also represent great importance and great potential in Serbia's energy development. Of course, many experts, above all from the Mining Geological Faculty, participated in this bill, that there were plenty of public debates, that all relevant factors were involved, and that they were all able to make their remarks, and those remarks that were of an impact on the improvement of the text itself were accepted. In addition to this law, what I particularly want to highlight as significant, it is a strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia's energy until 2025 with a projection by 2030. Why? Because the Strategy came from the Energy Act, which is in line with the third package of the EU Directive and adopted by the National Assembly at the end of 2014. The strategy is also important in terms of which it accurately sets strategic goals based on realistic and feasible foundations. Of course, after the Strategy, there will be a plan of activities where the activities and concrete measures with the dynamics of taking these concrete measures will be envisaged precisely and precisely, in order to reach positive results in 2025 to consider the effects of the implementation of this Strategy, i.e. those effects that have been drawn up. This strategy has shown that the participation of renewable energy sources in total final consumption is 27% and that the participation of renewable energy in the transport system is 10%. It also came from real assumptions, the basis on which Serbia is resting today, which is that the overall energy potential, primarily the thermal power plant and at this point, will be restored, the recovery of TE “Kostolac” which otherwise contains very significant reserves of coal coal and an increase in its capacity to 300 megawatts. By 2025, this capacity increase should go to 700 megawatts. What I particularly want to point out is the use of the potential of hydro geothermal sources. I must say there are 238 geothermal sources in Serbia. According to some of the data I've seen, it's that the Bundestag facility in Germany is heating and cooling up precisely on the basis of hydro geothermal sources. It's a renewable energy source. Serbia has great potential, in 60 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, there are found to be a hydro geothermal source with a temperature of more than 30 degrees. In six municipalities, that temperature is over 40 degrees. Water betrayal at the source is also high, e.g. In the Pribojska spa, betrayal is, where the temperature is also over 30 degrees, betrayal is 50 liters and in Banja Koviljaca is 100 liters per second. Of course, hydrogeothermal sources should be a good basis for later energy development, precisely when it comes to the use of renewable energy capacities. What I have to mention is that coal reserves, mostly dark lignite, are such that they meet the needs of the end of this century, that oil reserves and gas reserves are much less and that, of course, the proposal for a law on mining and geological research also provides an opportunity for research in this area. Finally, one of the objectives of the strategy is certainly to reduce the loss in the transmission network. I have to mention the opening of a Belgrade 20 trafo station in the Mirieva settlement on November 2, 2015. I must tell the citizens of Serbia that the Republic of Serbia has secure and stable sources of energy supply primarily of electricity, and not only safe and stable sources, but Serbia is also a leader in this region. I must mention again Belgrade 20, which has been opened precisely for the reason that the annual transmission network will be saved here, which is exactly one of the strategic objectives of the energy development strategy. I also have to mention one more important thing, which is that this 17.9m-euro trafossance was built out of the funds of the Serbia Power Network. So, it wasn't built out of any loans, not out of any major credits that followed the loans, it was built somewhere from the funds of the Serbia Power Network. In voting day, given that energy is a very important driver for Serbia's economic development, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40487	I thank you, Mrs Jevtović Vukojičić. The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic has the word, and let the MP Marko Atlagic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40488	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with their people, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will honor the agreement of the MP club and its president, Mr Zoran Babic, to shorten the discussion of the time we are in, and I will take all of this into account for about three minutes. So, like all other laws that have been passed and edit their own area, so we will also bring this Mining and Geological Research Act to fully regulate the conduct of geological research in mining, taking into account all the diversity of various types of mineral and natural resources, so that we can clearly determine the conditions under which they can be used. This would protect the public interest of the Republic of Serbia in the area with such a regulated law and probably attract foreign investors. For example, there are several companies in Serbia that are looking for various minerals. Only the gold site is explored by foreigners at as many as 50 locations and lithium at 22 locations. Serbia has more than 200 mining sites of different geological resources, as well as dozens of metal mines, which should justify every investment in the area. Serbia is rich in mine wealth, and it needs to be used. Many important newspapers are in the proposed text of the law, and in this law they predicted that mineral wealth and wealth of groundwater, geothermal resources and other natural resources are in state property. So, this law is a natural wealth of strategic importance for our country, and this way allows for an expropriation procedure to be implemented according to special conditions. This requires the introduction of measures and a lot of work on the realisation of mineral policy. It is necessary to establish measures and great effort to realise policy and develop geological research, as well as natural resources, in order to obtain a strategic policy of long-term objectives. In the area of geological research of all kinds of mineral resources, everything is done for the purpose of using mineral resources in an adequate way and for the Republic of Serbia to benefit from that. That is why the Geological Survey of the Republic of Serbia is formed as a special organisation that conducts basic geological research and is financed from the budget. The Institute can carry out other geological tests based on specific decisions made by the Government on the proposal of the Minister. Closer are the defined conditions that economic operators need to meet in order to conduct geological studies, as well as the conditions for which they carry out technical controls, projects and expert supervision of the conduct of geological research. The quantities of mineral raw materials that can be taken for testing during geological testing, for the purpose of establishing technological properties and proof of spare mineral raw materials have been dosed. This law will allow for effective research into all mineral resources and particularly geological environments for the needs of spatial and urban planning and design. The adoption of this law and its implementation will be a public authorisation to carry out geological research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, ensuring conditions for these activities to take a position that would allow for a greater contribution and also stimulate Serbia's economic development. And so will my MP group, and I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40489	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. The People's Messenger Marko Atlagic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milija Miletic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40490	Dear Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister Antiću, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Zorana Babiæ, I am speaking to you too, because you are the only president of the parliamentary group of all MPs tonight, but this is not the only time. Mr. Minister, we have two sets of energy issues that are very important for the development of the Republic of Serbia and therefore deserve great attention from both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the whole country. Energy is a key branch of the economy. It affects the entire economic life, and not only that, but it also affects the social life in our country as a whole. It is good, Mr. Minister, that in the drafting of the Mining Law and the Energy Development Strategy until 2025, with a projection by 2030, you consulted all relevant both domestic and foreign factors concerned, either indirectly or indirectly, directly. That, Mr. Antić, speaks of you as a minister, of your ministry and of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mr. Alexander Vukic. Mr Minister, the strategy for the development of modern states or the strategic assessment is defined by three key resources: energy, water and food. I won't talk about food as a resource because it's not a topic, but rather than me, I'd like to elaborate two MPs, farmers, and one of them is my friend Marijan Risticevic, and he'd probably be angry about it. A sufficient amount of energy represents the primary resource and also represents the provision of sufficient resources, water and food. If this, Mr. Minister, is in mind, the importance of energy in preserving our country's long-term national security is clear. That is why we can freely withdraw the parallel between national and energy security, because without energy security, there is not a single word about the national security of the Republic of Serbia. Our Serbian, and world-class Nikola Tesla, the creator of modern electrical engineering, once said, "The development and wealth of one city, the success of one nation, the progress of all human work are strictly defined by energy available for use." It's a finished quote. Our Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vucicje, paid great attention to energy in his exposé, which he submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the 27th April elections, in Mr 2014. And, let's not forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most transparent, most concrete, comprehensive, largest, 52 densely typed sides and the best of all 72 previous exposés of the Prime Minister since the time of the first Prime Minister of modern Serbia, Mr. Prota Matija Nenadovic, until today. Dear Minister, at the 28-expose station, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic says, I quote: "The task of the Energy Ministry's resolution is to ensure Serbia's energy stability and security, i.e. enough energy and energy at sustainable prices," the quote concluded. That's why your ministry, Mr. Minister Antiću, and the Government has also drawn up a proposal for a strategy that I'm going to say a few sentences about. The development of the Republic of Serbia's energy by 2025 with a projection by 2030. Strategic review and the determination of national energy will allow the overall economic crisis to come up with far lower energy costs and the economy of the country as a whole. This, gentlemen, will allow MPs to take a better starting position for the future and a more dynamic and quality growth of the economy and sustainable economic development of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. The strategy is based on six elements that look at the balance between the objectives of economic development, the right to energy as works of human rights and freedom, and on the other hand to a healthy environment. The strategy is based on six essential elements. It is good, Mr. Minister Antic, that you have really divided these elements in the way that many European and world countries do. Firstly, to the energy resources and potentials of the Republic of Serbia, the second -- the basic assumptions of the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, the third -- strategic priorities of the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, the fourth -- the development of the energy sectors, the fifth -- the legislative, institutional and social economic framework for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia and the sixth -- the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, even after 2000, has been established, I am undermining the Members of the People's Parliament, that unless there are significant discoveries, the exploitation of energy, primarily oil, and natural gas, could be expected to be near the end of the country by 2030, or completely completed. The most significant domestic energy at that time remains coal with reserves that, according to consumption projections, would be enough to exploit after 2050. Gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, of the other Energents should be counted on how the Members of the People and you have placed them on oil shale and renewable energy sources. He first spoke of oil shale in this tall home of Prof. Dr. Milan Bačević, as minister, your previous. At that time, gentlemen of the former regime argued with this proposal, argued with this proposal, and here it is today in our country's strategies and strategies of many countries. This development strategy is comprehensive and is a good basis for joining the Republic of Serbia on the European road to energy shown in the 2011 road map. Finally, gentlemen, I call on you, and especially from the weak opposition benches, to give your vote on this strategy in the day of the vote, after you, I hope, and I see that you will, in a constructive way, give your proposals, because so little, even so, you will demonstrate your attachment to the modernization of the Republic of Serbia for which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by the President of the state of Tomislav Nikolic, most of the MPs in this high home of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of citizens, are almost plebiscitarian of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40491	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic, and let the MP Milan Petrovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40492	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with a college, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milet Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, the Svrlig municipality located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I'm going to talk about this draft law on mining, because I think this bill is very important about mining and miners, because I think it's a great opportunity for us, because nature has given us everything, and now we all have to take advantage of it, with this law being much easier. Serbia was once very recognizable by mine mildness, where in Serbia we had over ten thousand miners who made hard work for themselves and for their own. We all know that the radar, like the farmers like the peasants, and we say that, those bread that they made that way, that's what I think about our peasants, that's bread with seven crusts. Mines and mine wealth have been in our possession for the last few decades. We now have a number of mines that have shown how it can be done. It's a RTB, or mine in Bor, that helps the whole city to exist, to work and to live, that's where it invests. On the other hand, we have a large number of mines and other parts of Serbia that work, but not full capacity. As for mines, close to two percent of GDP is obtained from mines, and we want this law and investment that already has a lot of foreign companies, we want to increase it to five percent. I think it's right and we should all work together on it. This law makes it easier to obtain investigative actions, to make it easier to obtain papers and solutions from the competent ministry that will be able to increase the number of investigative actions done and later exploits to be done as quickly as possible. I think I come from the region, as I said earlier, where there are a large number of mines, where a large number of mines were, say, mines in Knjižvac, Aleksinac, Srlig, in other parts of southeastern Serbia. Those mines are no longer working right now. But I have this capacity that's untapped, let's say in Književec there's iron by examination, there's bismut. We did, and Kalni, it's a mine, an exploitation that was done in the last century. Now we have in Alexinac these mines, oil shale, and these are very quality things that we have to look to put into operation as soon as possible, by having to balance the economy and protect the environment. Normally everything must be in line as important to our citizens of Serbia. Now I'm going to pay a little more attention to these men of ours, to the mines, to the investigation of the ore, it's about those of Zeolite. The Zeolit is done, the Zeolit study is done in Bruce, and I think the Zeolit is a very important substance used in livestock prevention, we've had a previous period where some of the representatives of the duchy government have hinted, aflatoxin where there's been great damage to livestock, but there's a Zeolithic that can be solved. Once again, I will mention thermal sources, geothermal sources that are very important for agriculture. As a representative of the United Peasant Party, who has been elected from the SMS list to vote for this law and for all the laws proposed by the Government headed by our prime minister, because I think these laws are ready and help our Serbia take a better path, and I would like it to be much better and much faster as it comes to our agriculture. I thank you again and I will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40493	I thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic, and let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40494	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected ministers, respected government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Serbian People's Party considers the proposal to be a law on mining and geological research, despite the need to adopt it. This law regulates two major key things. The first thing is licenses, which means that whoever does the project, or audits the project, has to have a license. Under the proposal for a licence law, the ministry would issue on the basis of a seven-member commission proposal, which is good and should be the first activity of the ministry. We believe that there is quite a positive shift in that part of the license law compared to the previous law. Also, the relationship between members who would make the Licensing Commission says a lot that the profession will be more representative. Otherwise, the commission consists of two ministry members and five members from professional associations such as alliances, engineers and technicians, the Serbian Academy of Engineering and others. Another extremely important thing in the law is the rent we take from the state from individuals who use these mines. They now amount to coal types, oil shale amounts to 3% for oil and gas, 7% for radioactive raw materials 2% and other. It is interesting that this law also largely contributes to quarryes. They have spared unnecessary procedures, as the same administrative rules have so far applied, both to the hoofs and to the quarryes. One of the novelties in this law is the recultivation deposit, which existed before, but no one has respected it so far. I would particularly draw attention to compliance with the following regulations, and I would like to appeal to the Ministry to make the same rules within the time limit. We believe that all following the regulations that come under this law must be drawn up as soon as possible, within two years as the law provides, in order to allow for the full application of this law. If there is a need, a professional association should also be involved in the construction of the said regulations. I must also point out that the SNP has submitted an amendment, because from the description of strategic raw materials, we believe that lead and zinc are not justifiably left out. It is necessary to say that there is a large ore bed known in the Kopalnik area since the Middle Ages and is very rich in these ores. Because of the situation in the world, it is necessary to think about their activation, in the future, while in this law they would be classified and allowed as easily as possible to obtain the necessary permits. We must point out that the penalties provided for in Article 155, which refers to defending the rights of employees, are extremely exaggerated and that this does not seem to be a democratic arrangement of the state. What if the state representative is constantly dissatisfied with the minimum of work and does not allow a strike in his company and to whom, in that case, do these penalties apply? That's the question I'm asking. I don't think that provision belongs in this law at all. The Serbian People's Party is of the opinion that natural resources and reserves should be viewed not only as the potential for creating personal wealth, but as the potential for our country's development. So I repeat that with little revisions, this law needs to be passed, because it introduces minimum order and I hope that as soon as possible, it will experience a sufficient number of additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40495	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's MP Marijan Rističević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40496	After more than eight hours of debate, which was very exhausting, diverse, we've heard a lot about this area and a lot more about some areas that have nothing to do with this area. I'll try in five minutes to say the NS's position and mine personally. There are two agenda points, a 2015 strategy with projections by 2030, and I don't think there's much to say. It would be nice if that strategy in the opening part had an analysis of the implementation of the strategy by 2015 and had ever done any analysis of what was foreseen 10 years ago and what was achieved in the meantime? Like all other strategies, nothing personal to this ministry, I think it's an interesting topic to read in some warm homes, when it snows around Christmas, but it's nothing of value, real importance, and I'm sorry that it is. I think you're sorry, too. As for the very law on research and mining, on geosearch, I think it's a good name, not only are we exorcising that language literacy and consistency, but we think it's some logic, what goes before. We've filed 20 more amendments, I think you've seen it, they're aiming to improve the law, and we think the law is solid. If the essential amendments we have submitted are adopted, we will vote for these laws and it will not be the first time we have voted for a good bill coming from the Serbian government. It is particularly important for me personally and for the NS amendment to Article 159 paragraph 2 where we say that it is changing and it is, in fact, increasing the mineral rent on hydrocarbons in liquid and gas, i.e. oil and gas. Now it's 7% and it's among the smallest rentals in Europe. We ask that it increase to 10% and that this law applies to NIS as well. In order for Serbian citizens to know why this is important, to repeat only what is common knowledge, oil rent, or mineral rent, for crude oil in Serbia is 7%, for no one else but NIS is doing it and it's real 3%. This change of law leaves it at 7%, and in fact it's still 3%. In Russia, where the owner of NIS comes from, the majority, the mining rent is 22%, and I think it's in itself enough to change one of the two-way attitudes that we have toward that Russian company. It has nothing to do with this government, to be clear right away. It's an agreement that will be the eighth birthday in 22 days, and I agree it has nothing to do with the current government, but this government is obliged to correct the mistakes of the past, and this one, too, so that would be smart and good. In Slovenia it is 18%, in Hungary 12%, etc. The whole oil and gas agreement with Russia needs to go through the audit and three are part of the agreement. One part is the giving of NIS to the Russians, or Gazprom for 400 million, which is a ridiculous price, and the other is South Stream, from which there is nothing, to my great regret, but there is none of it and that is the reason for the revision of that arrangement. The third thing is a gas storage facility. It's not a war with Russia, it's not a war with Gazprom, it's just a new insight into the facts of the current situation. The change must also concern the price paid for the investment, as well as the mining rents. Without all of this, this whole law will not have its big change in Serbian reality, in that part of the mining of ore. What is most important for the rapid effect, and everyone needs this quick effect, new money for local self-government, autonomy and for the whole state of Serbia can be one justified way that anyone well-intentioned and reasonable in the world will understand, and I expect the Russian side to understand that, too, to bring one fair price, and hence enough new investment for many of the ventures needed by Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40497	The word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic, as the last reported debater.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40498	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the economic power of a country, which is already explained by counterpart Atlagic, will soon not be measured by gold and diamonds, but by the amount of food, drinking water and energy that the country can produce. When food, water and energy are gone, money, diamonds and gold can be worth nothing to you. I'm going to talk this time about the Energy Development Strategy by 2025 and I'm going to say that this strategy has something to do with the agricultural land law that we're about to adopt. Agricultural land, as well as many things, which belong in state property to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't just belong to farmers who process this country, but to all citizens of the community, people who make up the state. These days there's been a heated debate about it. One of the intensities of the agricultural land law is that land which has not been processed and usurped is to be brought in for purposes. Of the 830,000 hectares of land in state property, 248,000 is the object of the lease and some more than 581,000 hectares are either usurped, and if not usurped, it is unprocessed. On this unprocessed land at 581,000 hectares, you can have a European average that is close to a cow, but probably one cow per hectare, you can have 581,000 cows, which means you can have over 1,000 energy farms with over 500 cattle, where you can produce 1,000 megawatts of electricity and meat and milk for 1.5 billion. These are the reasons why we are preparing, as farmers' associations, and the government has accepted the draft as its proposal, the new agricultural land law, since large energy potentials in the production of electricity and livestock from biogas, and I have already explained how much this loss is, because this land is usurped or unprocessed. Also, of the 581,000 countries, if we take the assumption that 180,000 is usurped, 400,000 unprocessed, at 400,000 hectares of abandoned land, agricultural land in state property, you can produce 600 million gallons of diesel and a million kilos of cattle food from which you can grow 200,000 tons of meat, which is processed on the market, should cost about 800 million euros, and as far as biodiesel is concerned, 600 million gallons of biodiesel, you can calculate it yourself. Only 300 million gallons of diesel is needed for agricultural production. So, from agricultural production, only from abandoned land can we produce complete biodiesel for agricultural production and we have so much left to process agricultural products. What I'm saying is that from agriculture, especially from this part of the country's agricultural land, we can also produce primary agricultural products, we can produce, combine plant and livestock production, produce energy that is enough for both agricultural production and processing, to make a final product out of the agricultural product. As for other renewable energy sources, I will try the one – a series of Morava wind winds, an old farmer at plus 40 degrees, beside thermal sources, burning harvests near unprocessed parcels. As for the wind and the sun, I'm not against it, but the side of the former regime first issued wind generator permits. I have nothing against renewable energy from these sources, but wind and sun energy can't pull our agricultural production, while biomass energy production, through livestock, can pull our agriculture, and that's how we get money, get resources, that renewable energy is stimulated, and that's to pay for the adjusted price, that's to say that in the budget we have money for these purposes and this when we produce wind energy, we only have the cost of the budget. We sell the energy we pay three times as expensive three times as cheap. When energy is generated through biogas livestock, when it is made from biomass, then resources are obtained through taxes, through wages, through contributions, of course, and through the processing industry, the funds are obtained to make up for the difference between the price of electricity generation and the price paid by consumers and we do not have to raise the price for electricity consumers. As far as agricultural land and the Agricultural Land Act are concerned, I must once again underline that this is agricultural land in the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of all citizens, and not only of those who process it, and the objective of amending the Law on Agricultural Land is that in a certain way we can combine plant and livestock production, we can also make an appropriate amount of energy, which we can also design agricultural production and these products produce, if possible, as close as possible to the place of production. I think that, in order to get to the path that leads somewhere, we have to finally get somewhere with the way we've been acting, that we have to be brave enough, that this strategy in the development of energy by 2025, as soon as we have to bring and adopt the Agricultural Land Act, that through it we can produce as much renewable energy as possible, and besides renewable energy to produce enough meat and milk, and in such a way not only export raw materials, but that we can make ready products using our agricultural products, using our energy and get to the market, sell it, make extra value, pay back our debts, service our obligations, but raise our standard of population. If we extract 1200 to 1500 euros from primary production from warfare, if we throw ourselves at livestock, we will have 2500 to 3000 euros, if we process it with our energy, we will have about 6000 euros per hectare and that difference between 1500 and 6000 euros is that money that needs to be paid to workers, farmers, farmers, cattlemen, and through taxes and contributions to increase income or wages in the public sector and to increase pensions from real sources. We have to be valuable, working, patient, not in every shell pearl, but we each have to open our thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40499	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40500	Thank you. I would like to use this remaining four minutes to remind the European Commission's report on chapter 15 of energy, given that the energy sector development strategy is directly related and is mentioned in the paragraph on the internal energy market as something that has not been adopted. So, to start with good skill, this strategy will be adopted and thus we show that we are reading the European Commission's reports on energy. What remains as a task for next year, until the next report is the fact that we have agreed to establish a management directorate for mandatory reserves and that the European Commission says that we cannot provide information at the level of our reserves and that is what congregations are for. So that is what the Committee on European Integrations and the parent committee on this law are doing, that on these committees, and on the subject of debates, that is, debates and dialogues on the strategy for the development of the energy sector, let's see why Serbia cannot provide data. The good news is in the next paragraph of the report in terms of energy, where the European Commission welcomes and is the only essential progress, otherwise we are assessed as being moderately prepared, that fundamental progress has been made with regard to the normalisation of relations between Serbian and Kosovo companies for electricity transmission in line with the August agreement between Serbia and Kosovo, however, with the observation that the company has not yet been established with a comment on the gas pipeline hydrocenter, which I also think is the topic for the European Integration Committee and the parent committee that should be able to support the government and that the debate and the power of Parliament influences a different formulation of this sentence in the 2016 European Commission's 2016 report. What remains unclear to me, I do not ask you to answer me, I think it is important that through documents such as the strategy and that we always speak in the European Commission's report, therefore, the European Commission has found it important to assess the failure to engage in the work in the regional offices, of which is also a misdemeanor against Serbia. I also think it is a place for the Committee on European Integration and for us working with regional parliamentarians to discuss it. It's small or there's no readiness for what we're talking about in the strategy. This is what I devoted one part of the discussion in the opening part, so on renewable energy sources, about a very short time by 2020, about energy efficiency. The minister, the government, whatever, must have much more dialogue in this assembly. Otherwise we'll blink, it'll come in 2019, and we'll be away in a year to reach a percentage of 27%. To repeat, I was against that percentage and that year, I remained in the minority. I thought 2025 was the first real year for Serbia and 23% is the first real number. However, there were ambitious people who told me that they knew better. For the end, nuclear energy, nuclear security and radiation protection, I expect that, as soon as possible, the Assembly will be entered and, not a regulation, let the government do how it works, but a national strategy for this sector, because this is also an obligation, whether Chapter 15 is open or not, in the course of 2016 and that it will be without these remarks in the report, which we have in October, November 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40501	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40502	Thank you, Your Honor. Just in advance to ask - how much time is there?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40503	Two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40504	Thank you. I feel free to say, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Energy, Regional Development, that I have had the opportunity to attend the meetings of the Energy Committee in the European Parliament and, of course, regularly attend the meetings of the Energy Community. Now I do not know what kind of reports we are getting and what reports someone else is getting, and I can say responsibly that we of all Western Balkan countries have made the most progress on energy and on market liberalisation and on the third package and socially responsible energy policy, so I ask all other colleagues to be well informed when they are speaking publicly to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about how far we have reached, how far we have made progress in some area, rather than on a case-by-case basis on these issues. (The People's MP Gordana Comic throws out of place. So we can be very proud. You can throw it away, but please attend the Energy Community meeting when you are invited to Vienna and when you have the opportunity to talk to decision-makers at European level, when it comes to energy, you will come up with the right information and that what the Minister said and what I am saying is true and that what characterizes the energy policy of the Republic of Serbia and everything the EU and the European Parliament's Energy Committee thinks and what assessment it gives of that policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40505	Thank you, Professor. Marinkovic. On what basis, Mrs. Comic? (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica, so as not to remain unclear. You're aware that you don't have the right to a replica. The word has been given by MP SNS head Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, I will thank today and now everyone who participated in today's debate. I think the debate was quality. I will ask colleagues to have room in the hallway to chat and not to interfere with other MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40507	Please, Mrs. Comic, allow me. Mr. Marinkovic, if you want to convince yourself of Mrs. Komic, I would ask you to do it in one of the halls. Let Mr. Babic finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40508	I thank Mrs. Komic, because she will allow the Rules of Procedure to be respected. I think the subject of mining and geological research deserves, and I'll remind you that we're already at 11 o'clock in the debate... This day was a little strange and I will finally apologize to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because today, at 10 o'clock this morning, we didn't start on time, we started with a few minutes or a few dozen minutes late, because the MPs, the SNS MPs, were on the appropriate resolution committees. I say that this day is strange because we are always ready to retire in a way that we will stay until the end, on any subject because this topic concerns citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that those who first ran to the microphone here in the central hall of the National Assembly, calling on some divisions, calling on some divisions, calling on the various things that are happening in their ranks and under their cap, have accused the SNS. Where are these people now? Where are the MPs alone, Mr. Becic? Is this the respect that Janko Veselinović, for example, sent, our colleague Janko Veselinović, according to miners, according to mining and geological research? Is this how it's shown or maybe it's just a reflection of some past times, some past times when politicians, most often former president of the Republic, took pictures of themselves in macho style next to miners, and when? In an election campaign. Only when the miners needed support, when it was modern and nice to get down to the mining pit, and then all those people forgot. Just like tonight, I don't attend the National Assembly Hall, whether they're speaking or not. This topic deserves full attention. As far as mining is concerned, as far as geological research is concerned, there are only ways and frameworks for these valuable and responsible people who risk their lives daily in order to create new good, in order to get these new goods out in the light of the day, in order to ensure energy stability from these new goods, but to increase GDP, to increase all of which one country and where one country stands and exists. This is how we showed respect. In this way we have shown respect for the future, because some things and some values must be preserved. This way, I don't attend an O.R., who knows where, I don't care where they are, but they know they're only looking at someone else's backyard, they show great responsibility. A colleague, I would not like it to remain unresponsibly, transferred as the responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia for some past contracts, the Energy Agreement with the Russian Federation was reached in autumn 2008. (Gordana Comić, from: Year 2007) I'm sorry, here's my colleague, Comic, she said in 2007, okay, I'll take it in 2007. I will remind you that both the price of NIS, at that time, and the construction of the South Stream and the entire contract, the main negotiator was Mr Borko Stefanovic. I'm sorry that Mr. Borko Stefanovic is no longer in that unique DS parliamentary club and it's rude to mention someone who can't answer, but I'm talking about this as a fact. Why does someone now bother in this room and talk about how bad something is and say it is the responsibility of this Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why wasn't it bad at the time you were negotiating? Why wasn't it bad at the time when you could ask a question – what if you didn't do that South Stream, whose responsibility is it? There is no clause in the contract of DS negotiator Mr. Borko Stefanovic. I wouldn't exactly treat Banatski Dvor that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40509	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40510	I'm done. ... And I see some colleagues have tried to talk about the Banatian Court that way. The Banatical Court is a capacity, it seems to me, Mr. Antic, about 450 million cubic meters, cubic meters of gas, it seems to me, and in this way we as a state are getting this gas stability because there is always one capacity that we can because of some turning valves or because of some other things we can always count on that amount, but also on a certain price of gas. And that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40511	Time, thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40512	And it's a good thing that will always stay in Banat, or Banatski Dvor. One sentence. The Serbian Progressive Party, because of all the things the MPs have said, the SNS MPs say very emotionally, correctly, honestly and professionally, in the voting day to vote on the Mining and Geological Research Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40513	Thank you. National MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40514	Thank you. And I'm saying that during your session, you injured the first position of the 108th member who said that the order at the meeting of the National Assembly was the old president of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman, and because you did not apply Article 106(1) that the speaker could only speak about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted and the Member of 107 where the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I rarely talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and only when I feel that an injury has been done is harmful to all of us and that, as in any case, when I intervened to apply the Rules of Procedure, it is completely unnecessary. The essence of the injury I think is clear to you and to me, and that mentioning other topics, mentioning MPs, disqualifying MPs, and not being part of parliamentary culture, political culture, and particularly not part of the agenda. I am not asking you to make a statement, and thank you for letting me, with my colleague Marinkovic, clarify in the dialogue, because we know that I have quoted the European Commission's progress report for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40515	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. No matter how much you don't want the Assembly to plead, I have to explain. As I could not when I warned you to allow the discussion to continue in the National Assembly, I could establish order in the National Assembly, because you continued to exchange arguments loudly with your colleague and not allow the speaker who spoke at that time to continue speaking, too, after that I could not even establish order in the National Assembly. Thank you. There is a word, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40516	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. Article 103 was violated because Col. Komic used the violation of the Rules of Procedure to replicate, at one point, to replicate Mr. Marinkovic and she did not hide it. You didn't warn her. On the other hand, I would also point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 107, because double standards are always bad. When there are double standards, double values, then it's a road to nowhere. At the moment when a national MP here calls out the name and last name of the MPs of the SNS, Mrs Comić applauds and says: "Bravo, it is great, it is parliamentaryism, and at the time when I point out that there is no presence of the MPs and therefore the demeaning of both the National Assembly and the topic on the agenda today, then that is the reason for hurting the Rules of Procedure. You know, these double standards are bad, and while we're at this diligence, it would be good if we all warned, all citizens living in the AP Vojvodina, if we could remind Mr. Pitiæ of this diligence, so let's see if he remembers whether he knows the address of the job that the people of Vojvodina are paying him for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40517	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I've already explained to Mrs. Comic. I think it is also groundless to speak further at this point, because we are not even in direct transmission, so I cannot explain to the citizens of Serbia that some abuse of the Rules of Procedure indicates to me that I did not, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, warn the debates and pointed to a certain breach of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. I hope we've cleared this up and I don't think we're going to be trying to break the Rules of Procedure in the next debate. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40518	I would, of course, like to thank everyone who participated in the discussion, especially now these MPs since my last announcement, meaning Vladimir Orlic, Ivana Dinić, Mirjana Djokovic, Ljiljana Malusic, Milos Tosanic, Branimir Rancic, Milanki Jeftic Vukojičić, Vuketi Toskovic, Dr Mark Atlagic, Milija Miletic, Milan Petrić, Mr Rističic, of course Zoran Babić, authorised representatives, on one of the really good contributions they made to this discussion. I would like to point out that I think it is very good that the MPs have really paid great attention to these laws, invested great energy to study them well, to have very good quality and constructive discussions and we will, of course, also in the law itself, but also in our further work have a lot to learn from this debate and to apply it in practice. I have to point out a few elements with a request that, so we've recorded everything, but it only means two things to throw the accent. What Mr Orlic was talking about about was the hotline, i.e. the heat pipeline between the TENTA and the Belgrade power plants, that it was part of serious analyses, serious studies, that under some point, I would say the Ministry of People from Belgrade Power Plants, the City of Belgrade and the EPS are working on a feasibility study of the project, that the study will be completed in December, that there is no dilemma that the study will show that the project is feasible, that it is profitable and that it is something that will be at the top of our priorities in the next period. Of course, to underline what Mr Risticevic was saying, that this very link between agricultural production and biomass and energy production and the rounding of production cycles over households and large holdings must be one of the priorities and from the point of view of jurisdiction we will give support to these and such projects, primarily through the incentive policy, but of course through support in security and funds and donations, which from the IPA funds, which from the KFE funds that go towards support of such projects. We, if I recall correctly, had a contract with six investors and a UNDP to build four biomass plants a few weeks ago and we believe there will be more such projects. As a state and UNDP, we have supported these projects with $1.6 million of grants and I repeat, we have to work on promoting such projects, we have to work on promoting renewables, we have to work on biomass specifically, we have to support our farmers to understand all the opportunities and chances ahead of them. At the very end, I repeat, we did not enter these elements of change around the mining rent, primarily starting from the fact that, I repeat, in preparation for the Law on Refunds, this law prepares the Ministry of Finance and I expect it very quickly in front of MPs, and we felt it would be inequitable to now enter into an analysis and debate of something that will be done at the level of a legal solution. I understand a certain degree of dissatisfaction, I guess it exists with all of us, which is a mineral rent for oil and gas 3%, or not 7% as planned, but remained at 3% in practice. I repeat, it is now 2015, and the Energy Agreement was signed in 2008. It's hard to talk about him today from the point of view of all the elements that led the then state leadership to sign him. I believe and want to believe that these were the best intentions and best wishes for the Republic of Serbia. I agree that the agreement in Serbia had three key elements. One is the privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia, the other is the "South Stream", and the third is the Banatski Dvor underground warehouse. But objectively, we must be aware that there is no formal-legal link between any of these three acts and any formal-law consequence. These are all individual contracts and it is impossible to challenge them in a way that is quite light here by some MPs. I have read to the MPs a very precise and very clear formulation of this energy agreement, relating to Article 13 and related to the fact that we have passed the law and ratified it in the Assembly, an international contract which we have committed to during the investment cycle in the oil industry of Serbia, will not make conditions for the business of the oil industry of Serbia worse, and that, through the deterioration of conditions within the meaning of this agreement, the introduction of new taxes, taxis, customs duties or other similar duties, as well as an increase in tax rates, fees, customs duties or other taxes. It is simply a law adopted by this Assembly and it is something that is like an international obligation and an international treaty that we have ratified has power beyond our legislation and our other legal solutions. I think that now in a situation where, I repeat, the rent is 7%, it would be charged 3% under the old law that was in force at the time of the signing of this contract, that now in these conditions raising that mining rent to 10%, and it would be charged 3%, which was valid at that time, would really be one unnecessary politicization and non-registration of neither the government nor parliament. I'm more likely to go into an open friendly conversation with Russian partners and try to get our country out of this open friendly conversation as much as possible. It will be, I think, and I suppose, the position and government in relation to these amendments that we have spoken about, and the government policy that we will lead in the future. I repeat, we are a country that has a certain kind of energy dependence, a country that has its place and position on the map of the world. We need to be aware of this and of the needs and facts and to be wise, to lead a wise policy and through a wise policy that we are trying to provide for Serbia and all our citizens as much as possible. We're in no condition and we're not in a position to slam our hand out of the table, especially when there are solid legal frameworks that put us in a position that our argument isn't strong enough and it's not strong enough. Once again, I thank you for an extremely high-quality debate. We will take extra care during the evening and tomorrow afternoon once more of the amendment. I hope I don't need to further potentiate the full openness of this team to accept any amendment that will advance the law. That's how we've been acting so far, and trust me, we'll behave like this in the future. If there is room for some of these remaining 82 amendments to be such as to improve the system and system solutions, we will also accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-01-0.u40519	I thank you, Mr. Minister. You mentioned all the debaters, but you did not mention Mrs. Komic and Mr. Zivkovic, that they would not be offended. (Alexander Antić, from the post: I already thanked Mrs. Komić after my first address, and I gave Mr. Zivkovic a very precise answer. Just to be clear, Mr. Minister. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principle and uniform search and thank Mr Antić, together with the members of the Chamber, for his participation in today's debate. I also thank all the MPs. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
