ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-29-0.u46271	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We ask you to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. There's no record today. Please confirm the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. They were prevented from attending the sessions: Borisav Kovacevic, Konstantin Arsenovic, Mladen Grujic and justifiably Dusan Bajatovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, Article 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 1800 hours for the need to complete the vote today. We continue our work and move on to the vote on the agenda points of the session from 54th to 74th. I want a good day and MPs who have now come to the session. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – four abstentions - no, three MPs did not vote. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. She submitted Alexander Jerkov to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none, 162 MPs, voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 165 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for four, none of the messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 168, against – two MPs. I find this amendment accepted. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 166 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 166 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 166 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkovd. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 166 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted against 169 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, four against them, who has not been voted by 168 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted against 169 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted against 169 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted against 169 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 170 MPs for - four, against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 173 MPs for - six, against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Jerkov and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Jerkov and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted for - seven against - 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted for - seven against - 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Jerkov and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for - four, against - no one with abstentions, 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted for - seven against - 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted for - seven against - 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 170 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 176 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, none of the messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Parliament group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for nine, none of the messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers who are 176. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted in 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS were submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted in 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, v – eight abstentions – there are no votes, no votes of eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within a shorter period than the eighth day of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, v – eight abstentions – there are no votes, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Keeping and Wearing Goods. The next item – I put the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 10 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to making amendments. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted in 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them. 175 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstention - who has not voted 176 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them. 175 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for four peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 5th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for four peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has no vote of 178 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 6th amendment in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party Group and 10 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight against them. 169 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions for four people. 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 171 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for four peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 9th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions for four people. 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 10th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 175 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 11th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for four peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 13th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, nor has there ever been a vote of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 172 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 162, no 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the 14th amendment in the same text, MPs Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 173 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who has not voted 176 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 175 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 17th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 175 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 175 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 18 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, five, none of the messengers, 174, voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 19th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 19, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 173 people's messengers did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 171 people's messenger. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 170 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 173 people's messengers did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned one, has voted against 169 of the Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 25th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 173 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 25, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstention of the Messengers 175. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom the abstentions are held, has voted 173 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 168 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentioned, 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 28th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there has been no vote of 169 peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there has been no vote of 169 peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentioned, 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentioned, 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 169 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 31st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – has voted with 19 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 152. 15 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We move to the 56th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the law on the market of capital. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 152. 15 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not voted before 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 169 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 22 MPs for – 148. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act as a whole. We move to the 57th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Legal Persons. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 20 MPs for – 149, against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 169 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's Parliament of Adrian Anastasov submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not voted before 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was filed with the National MP Adrian Anastasov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 163 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions, but there is no vote of 167 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not voted before 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 169 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 169. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 169. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – voted 168. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – four, abstentions – no, no vote 14. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – no one with abstention – has voted 15. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote 17. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-29-0.u46272	Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166, out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166, out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against them, has voted 158, out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text, the People's MP Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 153, out of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, seven MPs of the DS group and nine MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS, submitted an amendment to the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154, out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153, out of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 153, out of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 153, out of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 153, out of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153, out of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Alexander Jerkov and seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, voted 154 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, were submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 152 of the 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, with a correction, seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's MP Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment, with a correction, was filed by seven MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's MP Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment, with a correction, was filed by seven MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, with a correction, was filed by seven MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted to Article 28 of the amendment by MP Alexander Jerkov and seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 31st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and the seven MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Alexander Jerkov's MP and seven MPs of the DS have submitted to the amendment's 33rd in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP and seven MPs of the DS have submitted to the 34th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of the 35th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 34th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Mr Alexander Jerkov, and by the seven MPs of the SS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to the 37th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to the 38th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 39th amendment with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was filed by the MP of the People, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, on behalf of the 39th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 40th amendment with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 40. Amendments with corrections were submitted in the same text by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 41st amendment with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 41. Amendments with corrections were submitted in the same text by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – five, with abstentions - there is no vote, 15 of the total of 159 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided, by majority, that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – four abstentions - there is no vote, 15 of the total of 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Moving to the next point. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on contributions to mandatory social security, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Seven MPs from the DS parliamentary group and the MP of Mr Alexander Jerkov, with a correction, submitted the amendment to the 1st amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the DS group and the MP, Mr Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS; ZS, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one with abstentions - voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS; ZS were submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted to the same text by seven MPs of the DS group and the MP of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 out of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one with abstentions - voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one with abstentions - voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 158 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -149 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, not 11 out of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -153, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-29-0.u46273	I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted by 13 MPs, for - 152. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Seven MPs of the DS group and the MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1st of the amendment, he is the mid-national MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS group and the MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, he is the mid-national MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS group and the MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, he is the mid-national MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - one, with abstentions - has voted, has voted 160 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS group and the MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - one, with abstentions - has voted, has voted 160 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment is the mid-national MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - one, with abstentions - has voted, has voted 160 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 147 against – one with abstention – there is not, there is no vote by the 14-nation MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the commitment of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad to the company "The Oil Industry of Serbia" AD Novi Sad and transforming these obligations into a public debt of the Republic of Serbia in principle. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: - 148 against - five abstentions - no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. On behalf of the members and members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Janko Veselinović, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic, together the MPs Gordana Comić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and 10 MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted for - four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together MPs Gordana Komic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together MPs Gordana Komic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together MPs Gordana Komic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there has been no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together MPs Gordana Komic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together MPs Gordana Komic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 196(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – five abstentions – there are no, there are no votes of nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the commitment of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad to the company "The Oil Industry of Serbia" a.d. Novi Sad and transforming these obligations into a public debt of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – five abstentions – there are no votes, no votes of eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the bill on the commitment of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad to the company "The Oil Industry of Serbia" a.d. Novi Sad and to convert these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project to Improve Competitiveness and Employment) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Generale Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade, to meet the obligations of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad on the basis of a long-term loan contract for the construction of the Alexandrovac divorce pipeline – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, seven MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 196(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no 11 MPs for – 147 against – four abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Generale Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade, to meet the obligations of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad under the long-term loan agreement for the construction of the Alexandrovac divorce pipeline – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151, v – two abstentions – there are no, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Social Generale Banka Serbia a.d., Belgrade, to meet the obligations of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, based on a long-term loan contract for the construction of the divorce pipeline Aleksandrovac – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin. Next item of the agenda. I put the draft cooperative law to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 149, did not vote 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. On behalf of the Head and title above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Balša Bozovic, MP of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-29-0.u46274	I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 162, of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment, nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 155, out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 155, out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 155, out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 155 out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 154, out of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 155 out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 155 out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 155 out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 154, out of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152, out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment, nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152, out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was filed by nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 151 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148, of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153, out of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. The proposer's representative, sitting at the National Assembly, accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 115, no one, with abstentions, voted 39 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic and MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II and Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic and MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 16th and 16th Amendment, in the same text, MP Balša Bozovic and MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above members of the 18th and Article 18th amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter III, the name above Articles 23 and 23 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS – submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Balša Bozovic, the MP of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the DS, submitted the name above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 27th member and member of the 27th amendment in the same text, MP Balša Bozovic, MP of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 28th and member of the 28th amendment in the same text, MP Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 29 and 29 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS – submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Article 30 and Article 30 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 31 and Article 31 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 31st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS – submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 34th and of the 34th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 34th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 36th and member of the 36th amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group have tabled. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 out of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 38th and of the 38th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 38th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 39th and of the 39th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 39th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39 of the amendment, the People's Parliament, Suzanne Spasojevic, has put this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted for 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members of the 40th and of the 40th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 40th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 41st and of the 41st Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and ten MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party-ZZS-ZS submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 42nd and of the 42nd Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 151 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd Amendment was submitted by Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 43rd and of the 43rd Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 44th and member of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Balša Bozovic, MP of Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and nine MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 45th and of the 45th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 46th and Article 46th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 47th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 48th and of the 48th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Articles 49 and 49 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 50 and 50 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 51 and 51 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 52 and 52 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Chapter 5, the name above the members of the 53rd and the 53rd amendment was filed by nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, the ZS, submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members of the 54th and of the 54th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS MPs submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs were submitted to the 54th amendment by Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, the ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 55th and of the 55th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 56th and of the 56th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 57 and 57 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Chapter 6 and Article 58 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 58, by a new member of 58a, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 59th and of the 59th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - has voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 60th and of the 60th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VII and the name above Articles 61 and 61 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above Articles 62 and 62 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 63rd and of the 63rd Amendment, nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 64th and of the 64th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 65th and of the 65th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 66th and of the 66th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VIII and Article 67 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Head IX and Member of the 68th Amendment, nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Articles 69 and 69 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 70 and 70 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 71 and 71 of the amendment was submitted by nine MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Articles 72 and 72 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Articles 73 and 73 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 74 and 74 of the amendment, nine MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group have tabled. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 81st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment of the 82nd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 82nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 83rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 84th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 85th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 157 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 86. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions—has voted with 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 87. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 88th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 89th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 90th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 91st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 93th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 94. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 96. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 97. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 98. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 99th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 101st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added new members 101a, 101b and 101v, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 102. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy submitted an amendment to Article 103. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Pralica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 108th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 108th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Pralica and ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 108, by a new member of 108, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Novakoivc to Article 114. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Cooperative Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 17 of the total 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on cooperatives. I'm putting the draft law on chambers of commerce to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – two abstentions – 12 of the 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Chapter I and the introductory provisions, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment has been submitted by the eight MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Head I and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the DS group submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II and Article 3 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 3 of the amendment, eight MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic and MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović and Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Suzanne Spasojevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 151 of the 151 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the 150 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic and joint MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović and Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter III and Article 7 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and in Article 7 of the amendment, eight MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter IV and Article 8 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of Article 8 of the amendment, eight MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter V and Article 5 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 9 of the amendment, eight MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by eight MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VI, the title of Section 1 of the 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 11 of the amendment, he submitted eight MPs to the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 144 of the total of the 144 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 13 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 144 of the total of the 144 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 144 of the total of the 144 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 144 of the total of the 144 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 3 and Article 14 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4 and Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VII and Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted their name above the members and Article 16 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter VIII and Article 17 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Head of the IX and Member of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and members of the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter X and Article 19 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above members and Article 19 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 1, the name subsection (a) and Article 21 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of subsection b) and Article 22 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Subsection V) and Article 23 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of subsection g) and Article 24 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of subsection d) and Article 25 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 25 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of subsection ð) and Article 26 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 27 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-29-0.u46275	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title of section 3 and Article 28 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote against the abstentions of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote against the abstentions of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter XI, the name section 1 and Article 29 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above members and Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 2 and Article 30 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter XII and Article 31 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 31 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter XIII and Article 32 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and Article 32 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter XIV and Article 33 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted a name above the members and members of the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted 150 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted 150 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Head of the XV and Member of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and members of the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by a messenger of 151 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Chapter XVI and Article 35 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted a name above the members and a member of the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against three, abstentions, there is no vote, no vote of 151 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, no vote of 151 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Head XVII and Member of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and members of the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of Head of the XVIII and Member of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted a name above the members and members of the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title of Chapter XIX and Article 42 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted a name above the members and members of the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against three, with abstentions, there is no vote of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - three, abstentions - no, no, 150 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, but 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 49 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for - two, two, against - one, abstention - 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 50th amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The titles of Chapter XX and Article 51 of the amendment together include the mid-term MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and members of the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on chambers of commerce, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 19 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on chambers of commerce. I put to the vote the draft law on the central record of temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered in the Agency for Economic Registers, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. On the head and the name above the members and Article 1 of the amendment was filed by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the same text, Alexandera Jerkov and Balša Bozovic submitted their name above the member and member of the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – one who has not been voted by 153 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 154 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – one who has not been voted by 153 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 154 Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – one who has not been voted by 153 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, no one has voted 155 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there is no vote of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has voted for 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group, MP Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic, submitted the title above the members and members of the 5th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name above the members and Article 6 of the amendment was filed by nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The members and members of the 6th amendment in the same text were appointed by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted with the 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted with the 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted with the 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted their name above the members and Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there is no vote of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted with the 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment was filed by nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who did not vote with 157 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who did not vote with 157 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and members of the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who did not vote with 157 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of the People's Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of the People's Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not been voted by 156 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 12th amendment, in the same text, nine MPs of the Democratic Party's Parliament, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not been voted by 156 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against them, has voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted their name above members and Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted their name above the members and Article 15 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted their name above the members and Article 16 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 155 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted their name above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 154 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted their name above the members and members of the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above the members and to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted their name above the members and Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name above the members and member of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, was filed by nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of - two against - 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name above the member and Article 22 of the amendment was filed by nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 22nd amendment, in the same text, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not been voted by 156 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted their name above the members and Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not been voted by 156 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VI, the name above the member and member of the 24th amendment, in the same text, was filed by nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter VII, the name above the member and member of the 25th amendment, in the same text, was filed by nine MPs of the Democratic Party and the MP of Mr Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of - two against - 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the member and Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of - two against - 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, nine MPs from the Democratic Party group, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two, against them, with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VIII, the name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment was filed by nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two, against them, with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, nine MPs from the Democratic Party group, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, nine MPs of the Democratic Party group, MP Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law on the central record of temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered in the Agency for Economic Registers, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the central record of restrictions on the rights of persons registered in the Agency for Economic Registers. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 17 MPs for – 144. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party – ZZS – ZS – submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party – ZZS – ZS – submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no vote of 154 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party – ZZS – ZS – submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them; 153 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no vote of 154 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no vote of 154 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two and two, and 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS group submitted to the 12th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 13th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS group submitted to the same amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention in favour of - three against - 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS group submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention in favour of - three against - 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS group submitted to the amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, and 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned in favour of—two, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the DS group submitted to the 20th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned in favour of—two, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 154 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and nine MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was filed by Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by 10 MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for – one, against – no one, with abstention – with the vote of 156 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, nine MPs from the Democratic Party group and ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, the ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned in favour of—two, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic and nine MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 31st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, the idea of the MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, the idea of the MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, the idea of the MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, the idea of the MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, against – seven abstentions – no, 22 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – two, abstentions – there is no, there is no vote by the 21st People's MP. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 21 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-29-0.u46276	Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions—has voted with 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - has voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions—has voted with 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions—has voted with 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 196(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – six, with abstentions - did not vote 11 of the total attendance of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right to Free Action and the Monetary Compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. We're moving to point 69 - a proposal for a law on damage after an elemental and other accident. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a law on renewal after a simple and second accident, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Chapter I, the name of Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment has been submitted by 11 MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 3 and Article 3 of the amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 5 and Article 5, the amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted in 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted in 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, with abstentions, voted in 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the title of Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the 10th and of the 10th Amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Chapter II above Article 11 of the title of Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 10 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS and 11 MPs from the DS were submitted to the title of the 13th and Article 13 of the amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – did vote 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 13 and Article 15 of the amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – did vote 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Members 16 and Article 16 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 17 and Article 17 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic Group – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 21 and Article 21 of the amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS were submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 24 and Article 24 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of Article 27 and Article 27 of the amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of Article 30 and Article 30 of the amendment, 11 of the MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the Head of the IIIiznad of Article 31 and Article 31 of the amendment, 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 10 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS and 11 MPs from the DS submitted to the same amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Before I put the bill to the vote in general, I remind you it's Article 37. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, firstly, puts forward a motion to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 157 MPs present did not vote for – 137 against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I'm putting the motion for a law to be restored after a simple and second accident, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill of restoration after the elemental and other disasters. We're moving to the 70th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, jointly for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 1st amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, jointly for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, jointly for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group and ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, the ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group and ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group and ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group and ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, jointly for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, jointly for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and four MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, jointly for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – five abstentions - there is no vote, 14 of the total of 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services, in general. Moving to the 71st point of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, jointly for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Dr Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Dr Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th amendment was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th amendment was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th amendment was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia and together by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 45th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and nine MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic and the MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action. We move to the 72nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Polyptimal Land I am putting the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the AP Vojvodina and six MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and six MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina submitted an amendment to the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Marjana Maras and Dr Milan Latkovic submitted the 4th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 156, of the 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 157 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 155, out of a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 157 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 157 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was tabled by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and six MPs of the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 156, of the 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 156, of the 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 156, of the 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS – submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 157 out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted with 158, out of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Please, as MP Janko Veselinovic requests that the quorum be established, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask the MPs to re-enter their identification cards into the parliamentary voting units. Something's going on with the system. I'm asking the IT service to check the system. I'll put the quorum back on, my screen's empty, I don't see anything on the screen. We're re-establishing the quorum. I got, uh, thank you, a picture on the screen. Please, President, put it in another unit, if that's wrong. It's okay now. I find that the application of the electronic system is present in the Hall of 130 MPs, at this point 133 MPs and that we can continue to work. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlovic, Marjana Maras and Dr Milan Latkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic and eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 151 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 152 out of the 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 152 out of the 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Milan Petrovic, Jovan Markovic and eight MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and six MPs of the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 148 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and eight MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 149 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was filed by six MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 people present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 153 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 153 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 153 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Mr Blagoja Bradic, to Article 11. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 146 of the total attendance of 156 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 154 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 155 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 155 of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 154 of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov was submitted to the 17th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 155 of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – 12 abstentions – there is no, there is no 141 of the total number of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the total attendance of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. We move to the 73rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land I am putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of Chapter I, the name above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted the name above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 3rd and Article 3rd amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – seven, abstentions – there is no vote, 147 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 4th and Article 4th Amendment, the People's MP, Mr Alexander Jerkov, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 5 and Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 6th and 6th Amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II and Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to the title above article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above the 10th and the 10th amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 11th and Article 11th, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter III and Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov was appointed above the 16th and the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention - voted 157 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th Amendment, the MP of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above the 19th and the 19th amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 28th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 31st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 35th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Head VI and Member of the 36th Amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment, MP Alexander Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VII, the name above Article 38 and Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, a member and member of the 39th Amendment, was appointed. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – two against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, a member and member of the 41st Amendment, submitted to the title. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – two against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd Amendment was submitted by Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VIII, the name above the member and member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – two against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted to the title above Articles 44 and 44 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 46th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, none of the abstentioned have voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, none of the abstentioned have voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Mr. Alexander Jerkov and Article 48 of the amendment, Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has not voted 165 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 50th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 165 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 166 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has been held back, who has not been voted by 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for one, against another, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 165 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for one, against another, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 165 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 54th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for one, against another, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 165 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the bill on land protection, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, against – one abstention – there is no vote, no vote by 12 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of land. We move to the 74th item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the motion for a Decision amending the decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party, in general. . Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic at a session on 21 December 2015 at 10 o'clock and 20 minutes pointed to a violation of Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 165 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović said at a session on 21 December 2015 at 10 o'clock and 25 minutes that he was injured by a member of 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against – 19, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote of 145 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Vučković pointed to a violation of Article 286 at a session on 21 December 2015 at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic at a session on 21 December 2015 at 13 o'clock and 15 minutes pointed to injuries of members 103 and 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 165 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic at a session on 21 December 2015 at 22 hours and 42 minutes pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – two, against – one, abstention – 164 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Ciric pointed out the injuries of member 107 at the session of December 21st 2015 at 23 hours and 11 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - three, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, not 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic pointed out at the session of December 22, 2015 at 13 hours and 35 minutes to the violation of Articles 104, 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—there were no votes of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Ciric pointed to the violation of Article 103 at a session on 23 December 2015 at 19 hours and 5 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 165 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slobodan Homen said at a session on 23 December 2015 at 20 o'clock that he was injured by a member of 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 167 MPs for – one, against – the abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Ciric pointed to the violation of Article 104 at a session on 24 December 2015 at 11 o'clock and 33 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - three, against - one, abstentions - there were no votes of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov at a session on 24 December 2015 at 14 hours and 5 minutes pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 165 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Please listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-29-0.u46277	This concludes our regular session. I wish you happy holidays. See you next year.
