ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31393	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find 93 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are at least 84 MPs present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31394	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My question is for the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, for the Ministry of Education of Science and Technological Development, and as regards the fate of the oldest Foreign Cereals Centre in the Balkans, the Kragujevac Stredna Cereal Centre, founded in 1898 in the Kingdom of Serbia, deals with research and development work. The founder of the centre is the state and after social changes in our country and the ministry's newest competences, the government of the Republic of Serbia is the founder and the Centre is assigned to the ministry of education, science and technological development. The Kragujevac Strand Cereal Centre deals with the selection, processing and technology of the production of pruning cereals and has achieved very significant results in the area so far. The aim of all research is to find, in this case a variety, come into production and make the work results materialized. Therefore, the Centre also deals with the production of high categories of seeds on its surfaces. Later seeds are placed on production organizers and the Centre has a certain fee for this. In recent years, there have been major disturbances in the seed market, above all, uncontrolled imports of foreign varieties, production of these seeds, as well as far more stringent rules in seed production, than in the EU and other countries. These are claims made by workers at the Centre for Foreign Cereals in Kragujevac, and all this has led to domestic agricultural institutes deprived the Centre of Finance and put their survival at risk. The centre is not excluded from the situation, and this has also led to the depletion of scientific staff, as well as the reduction of areas planted with latrine varieties. All this leads to a 20-month delay in earnings, all employees, untrusted health books, unrelated work experience, and employees are being brought into a state that they cannot meet the minimum of their existential needs. A social programme has been announced several times over the past years, but its implementation has always been delayed due to lack of funds. Currently, they are employed at the Centre for Foreign Cereals in the general strike to get the competent authorities involved in the immediate resolution of the problem. The Centre for Foreign Cereals trade union has come to the rescue ministry in order to launch an initiative to solve problems faster and the local self-government of the town of Kragujevac, as the city has been interested in obtaining consent to the user's land rights now used by the Centre for many years. The proposal is that the sale of assets at which the Centre is located preserves its activity, by turning the Centre into a center for the development of agriculture in the forestry district, which would finally resolve the status of the Centre, which is fully supported by the SPO. A working group has also been formed in which representatives of the City of Kragujevac, the Centre for Foreign Cereals and the Commission have established a cross-section in all areas and claims by 30 April 2015 and brought a report on the overall state of the Centre for Foreign Cereals, which will go to the adoption of the city council and city council, after which an agreement and implementation of the agreement between the interested parties of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the City of Kragujevac and the Centre for Foreign Cereals should be reached. Employees and the centre union expect the local self-government initiative to contribute faster to solving the problem of survival of the oldest centre in the Balkans. According to the information we have, the subject of transfer of consumer rights over the FCF to the City of Kragujevac is located at the Republic Property Directorate. In previous experience, employees know that these items are slowly or very rarely solved. That's why my question to the Ministry and the Republic Property Directorate -- as long as this problem has been resolved, because we, as a political party, are interested and remain the Centre for Foreign Cereals in Kragujevac and later grow into a center for the development of agriculture in the forest district? The second question of the finance minister, I was approached by many military pensioners as a national MP, the last letter I received from the Kragujeva military pensioners living in the Rudnička Street in Kragujevac and asking me to ask a parliamentary question on their behalf – when and how will the debt of the state be resolved to military pensioners of 11.6%, which dates back to 01.01.2008? Their assessment is that delaying the resolution of this problem only accumulates unnecessary court costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31395	Thank you. Is anyone else answering the question? The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31396	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had many times so far an opportunity to hear from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia that soon important laws for the construction industry will be found in the procedure. These are, first of all, the Law on Conversion and the new law on legalization. Despite the many and many announcements that have been going on, I mean, since the beginning of the year, literally every 15 days that the laws will be found in the Assembly, my question is when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia finally propose a new Law on Conversion and any changes and additions or a new law on legalisation? I don't have to suggest why it's so important for our construction industry, especially if you know that all procedures under the old Law on Conversion, or the old Law on Planning and Construction, and the Law on Legalisation are interrupted, that the competent secretariats don't act on them, because everyone's waiting for a new law. I think it would be extremely important for these laws to be found in the congregation before the summer break, and I would ask for an answer when they will be found and when will the MPs have the opportunity to make a statement about them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31397	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to ask a question, first of all, to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, but also to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice, because we believe that there are also elements of crime, or criminal acts. The meeting of the APV Assembly, session 45, is scheduled for today, and the 2nd item of the agenda is that a proposal for a rural assembly decision on the establishment of a public institution of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences, Art and Culture should be adopted. I would like to remind the People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the assembly of APV in October 2003 made a decision on the so-called The Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, and that the decision later fell before the Constitution in the court of the Republic of Serbia, has been declared unconstitutional. The regime of Bojan Pajtic and the regime of the Democratic Party to whom, I say, are approaching in political terms the last days, has decided to propose for today's session of the Vojvodina Assembly the establishment of a Vojvodina Academy of Sciences, Arts and Culture, which is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Statute of the APV. I'll remind you that according to Article 9. The Statute of the AP Vojvodina, AP Vojvodina in the field of education, sport and culture, has the following competences – I will not read them all, but simply to let the citizens see that so-called. The Dukean Academy of Science, Art and Culture has nothing to do with what's been defined in the Statute of Vojvodina. So – regulates issues of regional importance in pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education, regulates issues of regional importance in the area of adult education, regulates issues of regional importance in the fields of student and student standards, regulates issues of regional importance in ensuring the right to education in the native language of members of national minorities, i.e. national communities, establish institutions of pre-school, primary and secondary education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, etc. Therefore, in no member of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, it is not envisaged as a possibility and as the right of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina to establish so-called ‘the Law’. The Duke's Academy of Science and Arts. In the SNS' view, what's happening today at the AP Vojvodina Assembly has nothing to do with science or art. This is a manifestation of a very dangerous and adventurous political will, according to us, which is to continue to break up the state unity of the Republic of Serbia and to do everything in these last days and months of the Bojan Pajtic regime to deepen the gap between the AP of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia. Nowhere in the world of the Academy of Science and Art has a regional character. Everywhere in the world of the Academy of Science and Arts are institutions that have national character and national significance. It's in France, it's in Germany, it's in Great Britain. After all, so is ours. In Serbia, there has been a Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts since 1886. Members, whether as regular or correspondence members of the SANU are prominent scientists, artists living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and in the opinion of the SNS there is absolutely no legal, especially scientific, artistic or cultural reason why it should be established so-called. The Duke's Academy of Science and Arts. We believe that behind this is a very dangerous project, which is that Vojvodina and citizens living in Vojvodina are portrayed as something which is essentially different from the rest of Serbia. Does this mean that the next step is that we will have the duchy tongue, then the duchy nation, etc?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31399	Time. It's been 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31400	So we ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development what measures will be taken in case such a decision is adopted today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31401	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31402	My first question goes to the minister of social protection – what will be done to over 60,000 Serbian citizens who literally have nothing to eat? When will you leave the inhumane inhumane practice of selling social aid recipients in exchange for work activity that has so far been unrecorded in modern European history? Another question for Prime Minister Vučić, Minister of Finance Vujovic – when, within what time will you fulfill the promise that you will return wrongly, unconstitutionally reduced salaries and pensions to the previous level and how will you compensate the citizens to whom you have reduced salaries and pensions and who will pay the compensation, since it is obvious that it is both unconstitutional and illegal? The third question that I am essentially asking now to Mr. Vučić and Minister Vujovic is – do you have any idea or plan and within what time do you plan to complete your co-operation with the IMF, try to start a regional agreement to write off or restructure the debt, both Serbia and other Western Balkan countries, and to shift those funds to reforms, identify our institutions and banishment of party personnel from all possible public enterprises? This relies on my next question, Minister Sertic and Prime Minister Vukic – when will you break the disastrous practice of continuous employment at all levels of your party personnel in public enterprises and public-community enterprises? Also, the question arises, these are now questions from the locals, Minister Sertic, AD "The Unity" from Gajdobra, which is the company that became DOO overnight, and in this process the shareholders lost their shares, therefore, and this is happening in Serbia – what do you mean by doing and how do you solve it? The problem of the Jagodina cable factory is the endemic problem so-called. Unconnected internships and inability for workers working there to use health care, although at the end of January 2015 they received severances, when cynicalally, in the style of this government, they were told that health care paid by severance. So when and to what extent are you going to solve the problem of the Cable factory in Jagodina, the unrelated internship and the inability to use health care, since this practice and this situation is widespread throughout Serbia? Nasip in the village of Draževec, municipality of municipalities, i.e. The town municipality of Obrenovac, which, it can be said, is the only unguarded rash in the part of Obrenovac. Tamnava is over there with Draževec inflows in Kolubara and residents every time it rains they call and search, they appeal, and the President of the Republic and the Government called for something to be done, because they are completely unprotected from the flood. The problem of the pensioners who were the users of Elektromorava and the court executioners. We've got a man who's now getting a full pension because he can't pay his electricity bill, and the debt has been going on since 2008. Otherwise, his pension is 40,000 dinars. A private contractor takes over. The last five pensions he hasn't received, his existence is seriously compromised because he can't buy drugs, and all thanks to the bailiff. This, my fellow citizens, is the picture you can see in all your villages, municipalities and cities, because it happens to everyone and in every place, because some have believed in the future they've been promised. Otherwise, I also remind the Prime Minister that, as he says, the register is more full than ever, so here's a chance to do something, given that our people are more hungry than ever and that over 5,000 children have been taken from our parents, because of the inability to feed them. We have a problem with meals from the folk kitchen and this is a very, very current, top theme today in Serbia – folk cuisine, which is provided by the company "Lido Kettering" from Zemun, led by a prominent member, I will not say high-ranking official, Serbian Progressive Party, Tihomir Arsic and his brother, as in Belgrade alone feeds our poorest fellow citizens. So, from 2009 to 2012, they damaged the city's budget by about four million euros. A suspicious quality of food has been established and the quantity is insufficient. Users do not have 20 grams of meat per day, and it is established. The city of Belgrade pays 136 dinars, and the meal is worth 80 dinars. About 14,000 meals are issued daily, and that number is growing every day, as you know, since there is nothing you can fix in Serbia. So, 14,000 meals in the People's Kitchen, and every day there's a growing number of these meals. It's mostly a working class that's been led to a beggar stick. A full-day meal per week is only 50 grams of one pâté and one egg. I wonder when you'll solve this problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31403	Thank you. Whether any of the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 157. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Since no one's answering, we're moving on. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. We continue our work and move on to the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HIPOTECA LAW. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr. Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr. Dusan Vujovic, Finance Minister Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice, Srdjan Kokotović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zlatko Milikić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dejan Hadzic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Maja Kosovcevic, Director of the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits, and Radomir Matijević, adviser at the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by Members of the People: Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Marković, Master Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Balša Božović, Aida Ćorović, Marko Đurić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Zoran Živić, Vladimir Pavić, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olen Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordže Stojšić, Master Dejan Čapo, Neželjo Jovanović, Milan Petrić, Mirović, Mirović, Miroslav Supić and Spavić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinions on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I've been informed that Minister Kori Udovicki will be here at 13.00 hours, so I wouldn't start the debate until a representative of the government arrives. I'm giving a five-minute break. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31405	The President-in-Office, a respected minister, when it comes to Article 1, essentially, the amendment concerned central mortgage records. You have proposed amendments to the Mortgage Act, which is bad, of course, and goes at the expense of credit users, predicted and abolished the central mortgage records and explained this by the fact that this has not been shown in practice. You know what, the problem is those who were supposed to apply that law that didn't implement it and justify something that didn't show up in practice means just to admit that you're going along a line of less resistance and what in practice doesn't live, and a little bit of what lives in practice when it comes to laws, you're simply going to delete. The central mortgage records exist, Minister, both in the world and in parallel law. So in one place by clicking on the mouse you can see if there's some property under the mortgage. You are in this way making it impossible to see the records of mortgages and creditors and debtors and it is certainly bad and you did not find an adequate replacement for this institution. So you left the legal system without this central mortgage record and without being able to let creditors or debtors have an insight into that central mortgage record. That's why the Turnover Movement has filed a motion to change this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31406	Time. Will you spend five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31407	No, no, I won't use it. Later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31408	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Aida Ćorović. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr Blagoja Bradić. Snezana Malovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31409	Dear Presidents, a respected minister, representatives of the finance ministry, in the light of the amendments we have submitted, if I exceed the time reserved for the amendment's interpretation, I will use the time reserved for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In fact, Article 1 of the bill defines that this law regulates a mortgage for security and collection. So, the word “payment” is added in the bill for, as is the law’s goal, to collect claims. Our opinion was that the word "payment" itself is too high and burdens the bill's proposal, since the mortgage is a right to real estate which empowers the trustee that if the debtor does not pay the debt of maturity requires the payment of the claim secured by the mortgage from the value of the immovable property. The essence of the legal mortgage institute is, therefore, the security of the trustee's claim, and in order to collect it when the debtor does not settle his debt in maturity, so that the particular emphasis that the mortgage is regulated by this law for the purpose of security and collection, as it seems in the bill, is excessive and burdens the text of the law, i.e. the definition of the subject matter of the law. This is especially when considering that the entire text of the law uses construction, i.e. the term, ‘loaning security’. As the draft law is otherwise a prominent language, mostly a language preparation and a solution to the legislator as regards the determination of the subject matter of the law, i.e. setting a mortgage, is just a language grooming the wrong way. What is, in fact, also very important to point out here, in my view, is that the Government, in its explanation of the bill, has expressed its position in a sentence where the amendment is said – the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it does not include the word "the collection of claims", which better determines the subject of the law. So it just says that this word better determines the subject of the law and doesn't go any further into the reasoning of the law. For this reason, I think that we should reconsider this amendment that we have proposed, since he, I would say, follows the very logic and the system of the law further because we will see in later amendments, the mortgage agreement itself defines itself in this bill differently than in the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31410	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31411	Thank you very much. The reasons for the refusal of this amendment states that it is not accepted for the reason that the formulation of Article 3 in the proposal for a law is more precise and clearer to define what is meant by interest covered by a mortgage claim, which is the case in the proposed position of Article 7, which also brings more precision and transparency and whose erasure is proposed. I don't know if anyone's read this article, because it's hard for us to come from this formulation to better understand what is meant by a mortgage request, so I'd like the Minister to explain to me why this formulation which is better in the draft law than this formulation given in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31412	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31413	Amendment to Article 2 amending Article 7(3) The draft law amending and supplementing the Mortgage Act, which was proposed by the Government in a clear and precise way, defines what is meant by interest covered by a mortgage claim. The amendment should not be accepted for reasons of inaccuracy and intransparentity because it proposes to delete part of Article 3 of the Law. In my own words, since I represent the United Peasant Party and our agricultural producers who want to borrow, to mortgage, if they would accept this amendment, they would be vague. That's why I suggest we don't accept this amendment. I would now take advantage of the opportunity, since I am a national MP from Srlig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, next to the most beautiful city of Nis in Serbia and I represent all people, Serbia celebrates today. Today is the glory of April Day. We celebrate St. John's Day. I take the opportunity to congratulate all who celebrate the glory and this year to be born and noble, both in the field and home, because it is now harvest. I also invite all fellow Members of Parliament not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31414	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31415	President-in-Office, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I suggest that the amendment be rejected for a number of reasons. The first reason is because I think the amendment's proposings don't mean it. What I say confirms is that most of the amendments they have proposed have not voted in favour of these amendments. This also shows the data at the last session when we voted, were not in the hall, were not voting for their amendments, and my friend Marijan Risticevic said if they were to vote and he really voted, and they were not in the hall. Secondly, I propose that the amendment be rejected because, as explained in the explanation, the legislative solution given by the Government is more meaningful, the proposed solutions are more specifically explained. I think the third reason is because one part of that amendment is that the proposings suggest that it be deleted. I don't think that's really what this is about. Thank you very much. I propose that the amendment be rejected and I believe that the Serbian Progressive Party will indeed reject this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31416	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Aida Ćorovic together. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People Marko Djurisic and Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr Blaža Bradić together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31417	This is what I was talking about, actually, and I said we'd talk about it when I talked about the previous amendment. According to the existing Mortgage Act, the mortgage contract is a contract between the owner of the immovable property and the trustee, which is bound by the owner of the immovable property unless the debt is paid in a way that the trustee collects his secured claim from the value of that immovable property in a manner prescribed by law. So this definition of a mortgage contract actually only follows the logic and significance of the mortgage institute, because the mortgage is the institution that needs to ensure that the trustee is sought. The bill changes the definition of where it is said – that the mortgage contract is a contract between the immovable property owner and the trustee, which obliges the immovable owner to establish a mortgage for the benefit of the trustee to settle the secured claim in a manner prescribed by law. The bill itself stresses that the mortgage contract serves exclusively for the purpose of establishing a mortgage, not for the purpose of providing the trustee's claim. That is why we believe that the existing solution in the law is more precise and that it ensures a greater level of protection of trustees' rights. The mortgage is a legal institute, but it is preceded by a bonding legal relationship, and we believe that the mortgage contract is a dependent contract and it can only exist as such if there is a particular claim provided by it. In addition, the bill promoter did not seem to have precisely defined the mortgage contract because, in the definition itself, he established the debtor's obligation to establish a mortgage in favour of the trustee, while in the next Article 5, by editing the clause of the intabulandi, it was the trustee who entered the mortgage on immovableity. That is why, as I said, we believe that the definition which is in force in the law is much more credible with regard to maintaining the true nature of the mortgage institute as a real institute and that such a definition should be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31418	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Blažje Bradić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31419	It seems to us that it may be one of the biggest problems in this bill even though there are some good solutions that we haven't touched, but we certainly point out, and we did it in a debate in principle, but we are also obliged to point out some things that we think may be a problem. We believe, as I said in my first sentence, that this way of defining the clause of the intabulands in the bill can be a problem and we have suggested that the existing solution be maintained. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the refusal of the amendment, the Government has stated that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the intabulandi clause is given in a special correction, it is not an obligation, but an option, precisely for the reason to separate the moment of completion of a contract in which not all the surpluses from the moment of execution of the contract are fulfilled when the clause provides a mortgage on immovable property. I can agree with that, but even though that possibility is still a mortgage contract that is strictly formal and intabulous clauses should be an integral part of the original, it means, a mortgage contract, not a special document. With regard to the ‘intabulandi’ clause, we believe that it must remain as I said the mandatory element of the mortgage agreement where it cannot be allowed to consist of a special correction and for several reasons. The mortgage is by its nature a right to immovable property and is accordingly entered in the public book of the immovableity catastra, which is not possible without the ‘intabulandi’ clause, the unconditional statement of the immovable owner, allowing the creditor to enter the mortgage, so that without that clause the contract cannot produce any legal fact. Since the mortgage contract is a formal contract that is concluded in the form of a public notary record or a public notary soloized document, this clause must be a mandatory element of the contract. Also, I allow this clause to be contained in a special correction independently of the mortgage contract to be actually only provided to public notaries, provided that an additional source of income is made, and to the detriment of the parties, because such normised public notebooks have the legal basis to charge twice the same thing. For the first time, when they make up and verify the mortgage agreement, and the second time they make up and verify a clause that wasn't entered into in the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31420	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 7th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31421	We have also submitted an amendment to Article 7 where we believe that it should be amended in its first position and that the mortgage agreement, i.e. the publishing statement, is made in accordance with this law in the form of a public note, is an executive document provided that it also contains the provisions set out in Article 3, and that the remaining positions are deleted. As an explanation of this Article of the amendment, we have stated that, as regards the solution set out in Article 1, we propose a different language formulation that is more precise and precise than the solution set out in the draft law. In fact, we believe that the whole of this article is too much to use the structure - a pawned statement to the one-sided mortgage, since the previous member is already prescribed that the one-sided mortgage is based on the stated statement, and it is understood that the publishing statement refers to a one-sided mortgage so that it is unnecessary to repeat it in the text of the law. Also, as regards point 4 of Article 15 whose erasure is proposed by the draft law, we find it interesting, above all, that the applicant did not explain this solution, and this is a norm that is very important, given that it regulates the rights of the direct immobiliser, who is not the owner to agree with all the consequences of the mortgage agreement, which would not have the power of the executive document for such consent. We also suggest that an existing solution be kept, i.e. to give up on eradicating this point, because by eradicating the legal immobiliser in its state, and such a legal holder does not have to be just a tenant. These can also be persons who perform state-owned, for example, for the sake of the right to enjoy life and the right of housing, for example, by single parents with children in former spouse’s apartments under family law. For these reasons, we propose by amendment that the existing legal solution remain unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31422	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Do you want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31423	In Article 8, that is, Article 17(4). The Mortgage Act, after the wording ‘report’, should be added to the point and the words ‘under mandatory prior, timely notice by the trustee or the owner of the mortgaged immovableity of a person who, on a full legal basis, has a state over mortgaged immovableity. When the proposer deletes Article 6 of this Article which provides for the explicit consent of the immobilisers to verify the hypotrified immovableity, it is necessary at least to provide for the obligation to notify the holder of non-restriction of the verification, and in order to ensure some of the business interests or business secret holders in the context of their activity in the mortgaged immovableity, such as for security reasons, for example, if it comes to the production of dangerous substances or something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31424	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31425	I expected otherwise the minister's response to the previous amendment, since that is the purpose of the amendment's debate. Not that we read what we sent as amendments, and the highly mindful comments I received from the two MPs were not enough to understand the essence of the reasons for the refusal, so I would like, if there is anyone to answer, to what we propose in the amendment, to hear that. If not, then perhaps we can find another form of communication without sessions in particular, if only the goal is to reject amendments coming from the opposition. The reason for the refusal is, it says, not accepted for reasons, which is important for transparency, procedure and legal certainty, for all interested parties to be familiar with the fact that a mortgage trustee or more of them took advantage of the possibility given in Article 20a. What options? The possibility that a mortgage trustee hires a third person, or, say, a lawyer, who will represent him. It's certainly known to everyone who's part of the loan process. There is no need for him to be included in the book and thus to increase costs. I didn't believe it when some colleagues said this wasn't written by the government, this bill, but someone outside the government, and everything seems to me that they're right, because we're not getting adequate answers for the questions we're asking and for the explanations we've given in our amendments. Therefore, the Government should not defend itself by keeping silent in this sense, but rather by answering why this amendment is not good enough, but rather because of the transparency of the procedure, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31426	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31427	I don't see what the problem is to provide this member with transparency, when it's not just an authorised lawyer who needs to be able to access information. He can be authorized. One of the objectives of this law is to make it easier and safer and safer, when it comes to joint trustees and that they can delegate someone on behalf of any one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31428	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31429	If you don't know what I'm talking about, let me remind you. It says here that – the name of the third person referred to in Article 1 can be entered in the immobility register, with the fact that a mortgage trustee or several of them can always be required to be entered in the immovableity register, i.e. to replace the third person. How do you think what you said in your speech, to strengthen the conclusion that this is not an adequate protection and an adequate solution? I don't understand the explanation either, so I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31430	The word is from the MP Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I might consider accepting this amendment, but at the beginning of the interpretation of its amendment, the promoter said something that he said at the last session, that the comments on the amendments of the other fellow Members of Parliament are not good enough, or that, in their opinion, it should mean that some MPs cannot comment on enough quality amendments, which they propose. Simply, it seems to me that they consider themselves more valuable to the MPs than those who comment on it and on my case, it would seem so, and in the last session it happened. It has been said that I have no right to defend the Information Act, and I have only commented on their amendments that they submit. On his remarks that two MPs, one of whom is a veterinary technician, and the other is a professor at the university and a doctor, but they are not good enough to talk and explain, commenting on an amendment that has been filed, this has happened before. I don't think that's working out with some push for democratic procedure and practice in this House. If we consider that the other MP in the two said that this is a sanctuary of democracy and that this is the place where words about each amendment and every sentence, every line, every attempt to delete certain members with amendments - is deleted, then something is wrong with the promoters in the sense that on the one hand they think they are allowed, and on the other hand they dispute the right to comment on their proposals and I think that we are in line with democratic practice, with the electoral will of citizens, all here equal and in the same way we can propose and comment on each other's amendments, and that this is not offensive in a way that they sometimes express their comments to the ruling majority. I think that for these reasons, because certain MPs are underestimating themselves, in the light of the law, there is no need to vote to accept this amendment, and that is my view, by underlining that it is unacceptable for me that someone thinks that the MP is more valuable, that the elite is, in relation to others, since they themselves have said that this is a sanctuary of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31432	The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Aida Ćorovic together submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31433	Paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the amendment reads: “in writing with the signatures certified in court, i.e. by the second law of the authorised authority, it is replaced by the words ‘in the form provided for in Article 10(1) of this Act’. And item 3 is added, which says – the ex post contract under Article 1 etc., and our argument is – the bill contains a restriction on the right to acquire property in the Constitution is highly doubtful and continues to say that, and I hope that the representatives of the Government are familiar with the reasoning and with the proposal for an amendment. I still expect to get an extra answer to what I've asked as a question. I expect this from the government, without any ambition to restrict the right of anyone to tell anyone what they want in this House, regardless of what this sometimes refers to and what the amendment of another MP is to one professional text, without reducing the value of any MP in this House, its human ability to be an MP. There are some topics where expert answers are needed, and I ask the government's representatives for answers at this time in the image and work of the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31434	Thank you. According to the amendment, Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my advice is not to accept the amendment for the same reason that, through the explanation of the amendments, the applicant mostly insists on some professional answers, in fact, does not support the work of his colleagues. So when I talked about it, I said clearly and loudly to whom his exposure concerned. It was one veterinary technician and one professor Dr. at the university, and so I think we all have the right to comment on the amendments. Someone is less professional, someone is more professional, but we are all equal because citizens have sent us here to work, propose amendments, comment and propose laws, comment on laws, vote on our own will to or against, or refrain from voting. So all the rights of all MPs are the same and I, in the name of the democratic procedure that his colleague has always been called upon, insisting that we treat each other in this assembly. Why would one farmer be more expert than another farmer or university professor? Here, my fellow farmer proposes an amendment, why would I be denied the right to comment on its amendments in the same professional way, given that we are colleagues by profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31436	Thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Aida Ćorović together. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31437	The amendments the government has accepted have greatly contributed to some shortcomings in the technical sense of the documents here, and we are grateful not for that, not because DS is happy about it, but because we helped to make the text better and by helping to apply it more easily and to make some obvious illogicalness, error in the grammar itself or in the order of the words of the document. However, in no way does this change the fact that the law itself wants to implement its essence, that it wants to implement the political will, that it wants to implement the spirit of the legislator, i.e. the legislator which is considered to be in fact a law that allows for easier seizing of immobility from debtors now not only implements easier, but more effectively, with less procedures, avoiding court proceedings, avoiding later recording of creditors compared to the primary trustee. So, this law and these proposals, regardless of what we have tried to do to be at least in writing, to at least be done in an adequate way, to write things the way language and spelling command, do not erase the situation that this law will allow for a faster, more efficient, more precise abduction of immobility from Serbian citizens, and in favour of business banks dealing with greening business in the Republic of Serbia. You do nothing, nor do you think of stopping this practice, stopping banks from making it impossible for them to flagrant, uninterrupted, easier, efficient, precise kidnapping of the property of Serbian citizens. As guilty as the trustee is, he's as guilty as the debtor and vice versa. We do not see here persistently any guilt or constraint or suspending trust rights, but exclusively the obstruction of the rights of debtors, i.e. Serbian citizens, I'm talking about them. I'm not primarily talking about companies, companies, tycoons, people who have a lot of money and who have properties that put it as a pawn's right, I'm talking about citizens who are damaged by housing loans and mortgage supplies that are going to be damaged without a fence in this case. So that's what this law is all about, not in any way, except in one article, it doesn't slow down. We commended that one member, we said he was good, but we believe that it is not enough and that the rights of Serbian citizens in this situation should be extended to make as few people feel threatened by existence as they feel today in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31438	Thank you. The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31439	I would just like to comment on the explanation given in both cases why the amendments to this article are not accepted is clear, but to do the same again in another way. There is a philosophy of this law, i.e. an amendment to the Mortgage Act that is being introduced here, which is to put a little bit more into the balance between the rationality of the procedure and some rights on the rationality of the procedure. We have a problem in Serbia that this is exactly what we're experiencing right now, we can't, for example. to solve the problem of accumulated non-refundable claims because our regulators are such that they spin, are not clear enough and create an opportunity to obstruct the owners at every turn. So, at this point, in this article it's important, we chose, you can agree or disagree, what we think will ultimately best protect an efficient, productive process that will restore property to activity and lead to more and more economic activity and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31440	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31441	What some colleagues have already pointed out, the fact is that this law was not written by people from the government, that they were more suppliers here, and it is not the first time that Serbian citizens, i.e. Serbian citizens, the government of Serbia, delivered the wishes of the tobacco industry, the financial sector, all those powerful who practically manage Serbia to harm and burden Serbian citizens. This amendment is an attempt to prevent it. Today, if this law is passed, 100,000 people, natural and legal persons who have a mortgage, whose property the mortgage is established, will be placed in the position that the mortgage will be activated tomorrow, that they will be able to activate the trusts whether the claim is established, whether or not they have already paid off the claim, as is the case with the users of the credit represented by the Association of Banking Clients of Efficiency and here their position here on this law. They sharply criticise the proposed changes and say, that is, ask the National Assembly to withdraw this law from the procedure because it will lead to the desperate position of credit users. I will speak more in detail later on about certain amendments to what all the Movement for PRECRET and what all the Association of Credit Users resents this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31442	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that without this law we have even the opposite effects spoken of by my dear colleague before me. Under the current legislation, the bank can sell the subject of a mortgage for only 10% of the estimated value of the mortgage. The bank can also, without the court's decision, under current legislation, on the basis of its expert's opinion that it reduces the value of the mortgage case in order to sell it as easily as possible. Now, taking all this into account, I think this amendment is just written for business banks to get as easily as possible to the assets that are mortgaged before this law enters into force. So, they could have sold it into depravity, they could have reduced the value of whatever they wanted, and on the pretext that some association that wasn't addressed to the law's actual content gave some opinion, or, as one colleague here said, that this was in the interest of business banks. Let's look at what affected the creditworthiness of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia most. It's not the course of the euro and the franc, it's the course of the dinar towards the euro. And now those who didn't do anything to defend the rate of dinar towards the euro are telling us that we are working in favour of the banks, while they supported the previous governor who negotiated with the banks a course of dinar towards the euro, who was paving the rate of dinar towards the euro, who was selling foreign reserves of 4.5 billion and agreed with banks to jump 50% of the euro against the dinar. Now they're supposed to be in favor of some legislation. Well, those who advocated the defense of citizens, why didn't they do it when they were in power? Today, interest, credit war, when it comes to the Swiss franc, is the same as July 2012. You were still in power back then. How much did you care about the citizens then? This amendment, if accepted, allows banks to sell the mortgage item by 10% of the estimated value. This amendment allows banks to reduce the value of mortgage items according to their will and needs and therefore does not need to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31444	Thank you. Mr. Weslinović, you've reached out, just on what grounds? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31445	It's not about this, my esteemed colleague Arsic, but I will address the president, the percentage by which the bank will sell the property. It is the fact that the bank will be able to sell the immovable property whether it has the right to do so or whether the mortgage debtor may have already fully settled his obligation. So, according to the Association of Customers of Financial Services, this law will allow for the activation of the mortgage regardless, and I have convinced myself by reading the law, regardless of whether the debt is established and whether they may have settled the debt according to their account. No one checks the bank account. Therefore, nowhere does it appear that a mortgage trustee can seek to suspend the mortgage payment process, or sell immovable property if he contests the bank's claim. That's what this is all about, not the value for which this property will be sold. He'll be left without that immobility anyway. Whether he will owe the bank 10, 20, 30,000 euros, it does not matter at this time. It will run out of value, and the value of the immovableity on the market will fall because the banks will not be able to pay interest in the next period, especially those wars you are calculating against the contract concluded by the creditors because of your poor government for three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31446	Time. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31447	I haven't heard anything like this in the congregation yet. I'm really worried, because I know that according to the current law, a bank sold unauthorized mortgage property. That's all the court was involved in, so no one was responsible for it. Later she received a party in the court proceedings compensation of, I think, 25 million dinars. I'm not going to say which bank. Now whoever tries to do this is responsible for multiple crimes and for falsifying public documents. There is no more protection and patronage of the court to do anything contrary to the law, as is the current law. Every citizen who borrowed and mortgaged property did so most often in good interest and faith to repay those loans. The problem is that their salaries have been defused by the euro course and brought into a situation that they can no longer return those wars. That just happened in the period from 2008 to 2012. Now someone's telling me that he was working in the interest of the citizens, protecting their interests. I haven't changed my citizens' interest story since I was an opposition, not even now that I'm in power. I was the first to criticise these same business banks when they were amended and supplemented the National Bank Act. And now I'm willing to criticize them whenever they do something that's not good. But look at the Act on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services, as you gave us in 2010, see now that we've changed it. Why didn't you change him then? Why didn't you write it right? You shouldn't have come from the banks. Not to mention the Foreign Exchange Act, in whose name it was written.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31448	Your line time is up. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31449	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the President-in-Office, of course, should not accept this amendment since it is a warning measure, in which the debtor warns that his obligations must be settled, otherwise there may be unwanted consequences for him. If they accepted this amendment and thus excluded this position, there would be adverse consequences for debtors. As for the attempt to insult the government, where it is said that the people of the government did not write this law, but the suppliers of major factors of the tobacco industry, etc., I disagree with such a qualification of MPs. During the government he supported the sessions, they were virtual, they were kept by text messages, and decisions were made by text messages, whether they were citizens' property, or whether they were citizens' fates. Someone who agreed that the government would ambush him virtually, that the government would ambush him and make SMS decisions now to another government that doesn't call it the government of the delivery company or the government unable to write amendments and supplement this law. It also bothers me that someone who has liquidated domestic banks, most of all, and who has introduced foreign banks guaranteed by the domestic state and who has thus opened the door to foreign banks, someone who has left several domestic banks to have political parties who have ruled, their political friends here and in these banks leave funds of security that have not been worth anything, that someone who has supported such a government and such a system today that proposes these amendments and additions to the laws, and that this change directly protects the debtor, namely, that it must be warned that his property is in danger, or that the mortgage can be activated, someone who is required by the government to be aware of its obligations, someone so requests that the debtor should be abolished. I simply don't understand, although I'm not a doctor of law, I'm not a law professor, I'm not a lecturer at the state university, unlike the fellow who proposed this amendment, I don't understand what he's trying to achieve in his sudden turn, giving up the support of the former government that ruled in the way I've already described it. I'm afraid that when you suddenly turn around and the blood pours into your head, then the imagination can do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31450	The 17th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31451	I thank you, President. A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, in the SPS parliamentary group, there is a kind of surprise that this amendment was not accepted, and that before, in the principle debate, Minister Vujovic himself, using a completely healthy logic, I accepted an intervention that, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I made in relation to Article 17, so I really don't see the reason why the amendment was not accepted, so in this direction, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I will give only a professional reference when it comes to the intervention that was made. In principle, it is stated in the amendment that in no case can what means by reference to a second-degree authority be normed on how to decide. In fact, a kind of decision-making order is given by appeal, so it is said that the appeal will be respected or will be respected if the conditions prescribed by this article are met. The question arises whether, since the legal theory of this kind of order does not know, court practice is even less, such normation is legally acceptable? I am more figuratively in the principle debate than to point out that if a court was given a court order, a second-degree court, how to make a decision and in what direction to make a decision, when to release the defendant and what are the reasons to release the defendant. It's the same here. The second-degree body reduces decision-making autonomy, and the second-degree body must have full autonomy in decision-making. This autonomy implies both assessment and analysis and justification and regularity or regularity from the point of view of the law, because the second-degree body applies the law. That's what the legislator has to provide. In the light of which our amendment was rejected, it is stated that a clearer legal formulation is given in the current text. If this is a clearer legal formulation, then the question arises -- why is it that, as Minister Vujovic said, only does not point to an examination of the complaint, and in no case is the imposition of a decision by appeal? On the other hand, there is also a qualification in the explanation that points to one procedural legal action or a procedural legal institute, which is the rejection of the proposal and is said to be – there is no need to be normised in this article, because it is already normised in the provisions of the Law on State Period and Catastrophe. If so, in no case should the right to conduct a administrative dispute be excluded. The administrative dispute had to be held as a category of presence and as a party's right to be allowed to review the act brought in the administrative procedure at the stage at which the other authority is acting, i.e. the judicial authority, i.e. the administrative court, in accordance with the administrative case. It's off-line here. If we are already talking about what is systematised in the provisions of the Law on State Premise and Cataster, then it should be pointed out that it is also regulated by the provisions of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, which is prescribed by Article 180 of the governing dispute. Then why is the management of a administrative dispute excluded when in direct conflict with positive legal regulations? To avoid further debt, I point out once again that the SPS parliamentary group just wants to make its contribution, full contribution, in terms of full capacity of the law, that the law has as high-quality systemised solutions as possible, and in this direction are amendments, of course, with the full support of the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act, which we will undoubtedly vote on. What is important is that it is precisely due to the accuracy of the proposal and points out the rejection of the amendment, precisely because of the applicability in practice, precisely because of practical application and precisely because of the legal theory and practice, both administrative and judicial, that this amendment be reconsidered in terms of its adoption. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31452	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31453	I would just answer, explain to Mr Jovanovic that my colleague Vujovic has mentioned the possibility of finding a different formulation, especially for this word "respected", but the problem is that the amendment not only treats that part of the member, but also brings other changes for which we have made that, all in all, the result is what is in the explanation, reducing the clarity and accuracy of the overall member. It's a matter of different lawyers' attitude now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31454	Thank you. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31455	This amendment amends Article 8, suggests a change of attitude of Article 8, which now states that the complaint will be respected if the debtor or owner of the mortgaged immovableity, along with the appeal, provides written evidence that, one, the claim does not exist, two, the mortgage does not exist, three, four, etc. It is our suggestion that this position is to be filed if the claim does not exist, unless the mortgage exists and these two additional members. What's the difference? The difference is that it is defined here when the complaint will be respected and is required by the debtor to prove that the claim does not exist. How does a debtor prove there's no claim? To say - I don't have a contract, whether it's evidence, or to say... By what document, which authority issues a document guaranteeing that there is no claim? Tell me, which organ and how is it determined that there is no mortgage? That's why the formulation is here – the complaint is filed, and then the process proves one or the other. So, I'm in debt, I file a complaint, I use those five minutes, the chairman, and then in the process of that second-degree body, it proves who's right, not to define that the complaint will only be accepted if the debtor proves it. Once again, I ask – how is that proven? What's the right way to prove something? I think it's obvious that we have one situation here, and that's what I said in the principle debate. This is a law that had to be changed. There is no doubt about it that there was a need to bring amendments and supplement this law. If he wasn't the previous law, he hadn't endured a past application check, but this wasn't done in a good way. We have one more thing here, with all due respect to the vice president, but we do know each other, it's hardly the vice president who came to debate this law, because it's not her portfolio, because it's not a domain that deals with the government, I think it's a defiance of parliament. Not your presence. On the contrary, rather than the lack of presence of whoever was in charge of the law, which is Minister Vujovic and would be very interesting to explain to us why someone who defended the law is in principle not here to defend it in detail, to defend it from the amendments, which is the most important thing. We're coming up with a thing I've already described earlier that it's really sad who on behalf of the government defends your law and it's even worse that there's no desire to accept any rational change that the opposition, in this case, as usual, offers out of the best intentions. Once again, the amendments "is deleted" are entirely too much if they are placed at the right time in the right place. We also have the tradition that they are proposed for decades, I have already said that in all normal parliaments, in normal countries it is a very common amendment. In this House, we have two or three examples that the proposings have accepted the amendments in the text "is deleted" and I will no longer repeat who it was. The other kind of amendment, or other relationship between us to the laws, is, then, this is when the law is no good then we ask that it be "expunged". Another relationship is when we think the law is good, but it's not good enough then we come up with amendments that are this type, but obviously the other side doesn't have any desire to deal with it. Except, of course, when we put the decimal where it belongs, so it can't be rejected because spelling is being learned, I mean now in the third-fourth basic, but I expect a little more seriousness of the government when it gets the amendments, and you also have "delivery of June", you have advisers from the country and the world with ordinary and unusual last names, you have a large number of doctors of science, so a lot of people have just now doctored before they enter this government have fresh knowledge, they haven't doctored 20-30 years ago, but now, it is that in 50-60. So that's all good potential, I think the government knows how to heart one good answer. Of course, this isn't a transfer to Vice President Widowly because... She's not happy that she's here today to defend this law, of course. Anyway, there must be some government members who sometimes have to do what's not the most pleasant thing in their life, but that's part of politics, that's not the problem. The problem is that we didn't get around you and someone who could seriously prove to us that our amendments aren't good enough to improve the bill. Therefore, since they are not accepted, I will repeat what I said at the beginning of the principle debate, we will vote in favour of the law if our amendments are accepted, obviously there is no will to understand, and let alone to accept, therefore, vote for it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31456	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31457	I will respond much shorter to the essence of this amendment, and that, again, refers to the same thing I mentioned for a little while to balance efficiency and legal certainty. In this case, it has again exceeded efficiency and I think it is justified in the conditions in which problems in the financial sector of Serbia are now being solved and how the performances of the law have proved to be, and there is absolutely no truth, so that we can say that one party was absolutely certain. The government's position is that it's far better to seek immediate written proof, and of course it exists, because it's not proof that you and I are not those who have no claim, it's someone who had them. Therefore, you have proof by giving the document of payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31458	Thank you. Please, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31459	Of course. So I repeat the question, you didn't understand him. My question was, how does the debtor prove there's no claim and there's no mortgage, as anyone on the globe can prove when you ask him, do you owe? He says I'm not. How does he prove it? That means he has to have signatures with all seven billion people in the world that he doesn't owe anyone. So the other side has to prove it. The trustee has to prove, of course, by contract, I don't know what and it's easy to prove. But this formula that you've given is pointless that someone needs to prove that they don't owe him. There is no form, no institution, no one, God's father or who loves committees, or I don't know what, no formal, informal body that can issue that document. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31460	Thank you. The word has a minister of Udovici.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31461	There is, it's detailed here, I don't have to repeat it. It's a banking procedure. Therefore, if you are in debt and if this possibility arises in the loan contract at all, it will be paid and you will have proof of that. If not, your reference is not relevant.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31462	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31463	In Article 31, paragraph 9. The Mortgage Act "no sad or legal remedy is allowed against it" should be deleted. We believe that it is necessary to leave the possibility of filing a complaint with the Administrative Court against the final act brought by appeal for the first-degree catastra solution, because the application to the Administrative Court does not delay and does not automatically prevent further sales proceedings. In order to consider that the conduct of the administrative dispute delays the realization of the mortgage and, on the other hand, the erasure of this sentence gives the possibility to check the legality of both solutions through the administrative dispute by the Administrative Court, both first-degree and second-degree and thus achieve full protection of party rights in the process of carrying out the mortgage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31464	Thank you. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31465	I'll also use the time that belongs to me, five minutes. Therefore, this amendment was submitted to prevent as much damage as possible from being suffered by property owners over whom the mortgage was entered for the benefit of the banks. In the name of the Turnover Movement, I asked that this law not be retroactive, so that it should not be applied to those whose immovable property was entered a mortgage five, six, seven, eight years ago, when they could not know that one of these laws would be passed. You're Mrs. Widowsky here today in one really tough role. There's no minister, on the other hand, that minister didn't write the law, it was written by the banks. It was written by creditors at the expense of property owners, at the expense of 100,000 Serbian citizens who have mortgages over their properties. Here's a document that says so. So, this amendment is fully in line with what the Association of Financial Services Users of the "Effects", which says -- based on the judicial decision in Serbia, the change of decision recently made by the NBS, which determines the illegal behaviour of banks. So the NBS itself said that banks are acting illegally. We have a document here attached. It says – there will be a possibility for these banks who behave illegally to initiate the sale process even though the debt has not been determined. Do you know Mrs. Minister who determines the height of the debt? In an adequate manner, it can determine only the expert on the financial profession based on the skills of the court based on a decision of law and the account given in the light of this position may occur. He says -- if someone took a loan in 2008 of 70,000 Swiss francs to buy an apartment of 45,000 euros, after seven years of regular payment, he owes the bank 60,000 francs or 58,000 euros. So 13,000 euros more than he borrowed from the bank. Meanwhile, the bank paid 20,000 euros. So the bank will be able to sell the apartment that paid 45,000 euros for 60%, that is 27,000 euros and will remain in debt to the bank 48,000 euros. So 48,000 euros for a loan that was basically 45,000, and has already paid the bank 20,000 euros. So almost the entire apartment will be donated to the bank. The bank will become the owner of that apartment, and not only that, it will remain a life-long debt to the bank, not to mention a debtor. You know what these banks are, among other things, Mrs. Widowsky? Banks owned by Greek private and state-owned companies. The same ones that don't accept blackmail from foreign creditors, who didn't charge loans like this. It is practically for one euro there, they ask only to return the one euro from the Greeks. And here for one euro, the citizen will practically give another euro. Greeks also said Greek citizens do not want to repay such debts, and Serbian citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31466	Mr. Veselinović, please, just go back to the amendment a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31467	You don't understand the parallel, do you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31468	I understand what you're saying, but go back to the amendment. I have to respect a Rules of Procedure that you don't respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31469	You don't fit the parallel. This is perfectly in line with the Rules of Procedure. I'm very clear on the parallel. So the man took one euro. He is now due to return two euros to the Greek owner's bank, which says it will not repay to the European lender a loan that is unfavourable for them. So the citizens of Serbia will also be obliged under this law to return what they did not borrow. So, Mrs. Udovicki, it's about the next one -- it's about a citizen without the skills of a financial profession, without a court decision being left without real estate, he's going to lose a roof over his head, and he's not going to have, most importantly, no financial resources to pay a lawyer, and even if he paid him, knowing our courts, that verdict will be in three or four years. He's going to be big and run out of real estate. He'll lose his house for what he owes the state. Do you, Mrs. Widowsky, understand? Therefore, the bank activates a mortgage based on a mortgage over real estate based on its credit-user debt account. The credit user shall not be able to object, nor at least to lodge an objection that would delay the execution. The bank becomes the owner of the property or the sale of real estate, the citizen is left without an apartment, without a roof over his head even though the bank has paid back the debt. That's what this is about. It's about the height of the basic debt. Therefore, Mrs. Udovicki, withdraw this law as requested by the Association of Citizens of Financial Services Users "Effectiva" so that you do not have people on the street in the next period, without a roof over your head, who will sleep under tents because the banks will sell their properties.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31470	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31471	Mrs. Widowsky, do you understand that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31472	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31473	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I've been trying to understand something from the speech of the previous speaker. I've been trying to listen to it, it's been hard to listen, I believe, and other fellow MPs, but I haven't been able to figure out anything from that speech, except that the previous speaker often makes things up, and this is from yesterday's stenogram, when he claimed that I threatened him with something in that speech, and it's clear from the stenogram that I didn't even mention his name, or any threat at all, so this explanation of the amendment didn't surprise me at all. The speaker was talking about foreign banks. He was obliged to say that they were installed during the party of the former regime and that these foreign banks, whose Greek owner, had come, that they had taken place domestic banks from 2000 to 2012 when he was also an integral part of the party of the former regime, and that those loans, which were withdrawn at that time, had been relocated, had been issued under the conditions of the issued credits, under which the party of the former regime dictated. As she passed the laws, as she passed the regulations, as the government occupied, as the Assembly passed the laws, so did the citizens. To me, it's a general surprise that someone who participated in mass rollouts, as our citizens and young people say, to roll citizens with these loans, on these grounds, in those currencies, that someone is now complaining about the fate of those same people. It looks about like this - as if someone were to rob people and then come into that household the next day and whine – the hook they were robbing you. That's how I understood it. I don't know how the other fellow MPs understood it, but this looks like you're causing some consequences, trauma to the citizens, and then you take with some of your right to represent them, even though you're responsible for all the trouble these citizens have suffered. I believe that they are not at all comfortable in returning loans under the conditions under which they are in charge, and they have been in charge under conditions dictated by the party of the former regimes to their regulations. She controlled the National Bank. So, we weren't the ones who allowed these conditions in the Swiss francs to put those citizens in charge. The government is trying to help these citizens as much as possible not to tamper with private property and the rights of banks. I agree with the fact that these banks are ruthless, that there is something to change, but I cannot agree that the culprits of their position today want to represent themselves as the great defenders of that same people who are responsible for being robbed in the already described way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31474	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31475	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is another step backwards. Someone who wants to remain a quo, i.e. that the property of a mortgage debtor is sold in the depreciation of those loans and those mortgages established under the current applicable law, since the provisions of this law have not been laid down by this amendment, and especially since one endangered group of our citizens began to be mentioned. It would be a shame for me personally, and I would never use someone else's misfortune and trouble to talk about it in order to get political points, especially if I was in a position to speak on their behalf on 9 June 2011, but not as a representative of the former regime, but as a national MP who supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then the problems with these loans in the Swiss francs started, and I don't know why the applicant of the amendment didn't remember that Association "Effectiva". Now he abuses their misfortune for his personal promotion and benefit. The issue of these loans has been resolved in a number of ways in Europe, but none has been proposed by the applicants of this amendment. One way was for the state to buy the exchange rate between the euro and the Swiss franc. That was Hungary, Croatia. I'm sure Serbia would, but there's a little problem. Someone robbed Argobank, someone robbed Vojvodina Development Bank, damaged a billion euros, so we can't spare that 500m euros to buy out that debt, and while this was happening, the applicant of the amendment supported both hands and feet the government that robbed Serbian citizens. Now he's defending them from this government. There is another problem – what about the mortgages set up by the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? Are they the subject of this amendment, since we know that about 140 billion dinars, you heard well, 140 billion dinars on the DRI's findings are loans from the Development Fund of the Republic of Serbia which have not been remunerated recently? The entire deficit of the state for 2015 is conditioned not to be reduced but to those conditions provided for in the budget. Now we're talking about consequences. The causes were during the government and Vojislav Kostunica and during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and when I said it was the governments of Boris Tadic I was absolutely right because he determined who would be the prime minister for the assembly of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The whole story about this government being complicit with the banks about looting citizens is very funny to me. Why did these citizens lose their jobs so now they can't repay their loans? Because their companies had loans indexed in euro, where the state did nothing to protect employers and workers, so people were out of work because their companies couldn't repay those loans anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31476	Mr. Arsic, just get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31477	We're back on the subject. We're talking about causes first of all for proposing one of these laws, and then the consequences of proposing one of these laws. I think at least it's very rude to pour ashes now, in 2015. Where were you in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31478	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Stefanovic, here's your amendment. Mr. Veselinović, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31479	I don't think there's anything really responsible about the amendment itself, and at least there's talk about it -- I think it's good. We haven't seen in what way and what's wrong with what's being specified through the Association of Citizens of Effectives, which is perfectly legitimately asking for certain things to be corrected, so that the legal proposal itself will be better in the interests of the citizens, i.e. I owe you one. Instead, we have answers that bring us back to the past and about who's here for what he voted for. I wasn't a folk MP at the time, and here I am now telling you that what is done with banks is not just passive support anymore, passively aggressive government behavior. This is now a very active promotion of the interests of business banks. And this law is the ultimate proof that you're doing it. And what is what you do not do through the legal proposal, Mrs Tabakovic knows, because she absolutely does not touch them in any way to stop their greening activities. Absolutely, in no way does it prevent them from treating Serbian citizens, to all citizens of Serbia, from whatever parties, whoever they voted for. Today the one who has the debt and who has the credit is a man sentenced to total ruin. That's what this is about. This amendment is heading towards stopping the avalanche of doom that has been presented to Serbian citizens here today, in one segment. You waited for it on the knife, talking about 2011, four years later, after three years of your authority. The only objection to modality, the recipe for solving problems in Swiss, is that it costs you because someone spent it out there somewhere, at the Universal Bank, which you ruined. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Pokrao. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31480	Please, Mr. Arsic, let the speaker finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31481	Stolen. What was stolen during your reign will be established by the authorities one day. And it'll be fun, believe me. But that's not the point. The point is, gentlemen, that you owe this country 900 euros per second, 330,000 euros per hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31482	Mr. Stefanovic, as for the others, go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31483	I don't know why they're getting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31484	I warned Mr. Arsic, but I'm also asking you to return to the amendment. And don't speak to other people's messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31485	I'm sorry, I'm not talking to MPs, really. I'm speaking to you and using the time of my authorised representative. I have to say that this is one proposal in a particular segment that serves to protect citizens who can't pay their lawyers, and I can't, which they give to banks and assess and implement, for which there's no way for the debtor to say, to prove what his debt really is. That's all you care about. In a world where people today publicly acknowledge that they have manipulated the Eurybor, that the Eurybor was, which is, a tool of assembling money across the back of citizens. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Who's to blame? A wolf? I'm not saying it's you, what are you excited about? I'm talking about the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31486	Mr. Stefanovic, if you were to talk more about the amendment, it would be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31487	Okay, I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31488	You said you were talking about the world, please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31489	I'm talking about the financial world, Mr. Chairman, you understand the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31490	Mr. Stefanovic, MPs with the right to detest because you don't talk about the amendment, and you yourself said you were talking about the world, about events, about the global crisis. Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31491	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to help me and this Assembly, to give us, let's say you introduce a light signal, when the MPs are allowed to talk about 2010 and 2011, to talk about borrowing, I don't know who, the people who are long in political retirement, when they're allowed, then put on a green light, and when I mention the financial world, the Eurobor and what's happening today, well, that's turning off the topic. Do you notice traces of inconsistency in your approach?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31492	Mr Stefanovic, since you know it best and you always know what happens when you are not in the hall, please, as I have warned Mr Arsic and Mr Risticevic and any MP who spoke before you to return to the topic, it is my duty to warn you as well. Then don't argue with me that I have different arches when it comes to you. I ask you to talk about the amendment, because the MPs in the O.R. are in contempt because you're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31493	I'm just going to say one more sentence, about the amendment. We haven't heard the answer, the lesson, the help, the assistance, the citizens' recommendation what to do, the citizens who have a debt, they have a mortgage supply, they can't pay a lawyer, they're unauthorized to estimate the amount, the size of their own debt, the bank has the right to carry it out on its own in terms of its own. I agree that nothing was right. For over three and a half years you've been in power, just tell us, gentlemen, what do you propose to the citizens to do in this situation and to whom do they address? I'm not asking anything else, this is a rhetorical question, because I know there's no answer without it being calendar. That is the spirit and essence of this amendment. Everything else is the story of the guilty, and the prosecution stands. Let them start working. The assembly is no place for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31494	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replication to Mr. Stefanovic's presentation? (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: Replication to Mr Arsic's presentation. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Veselinović, you know that very well. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31495	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. At first, I will say that the SNS will not accept this amendment, but in the beginning I will also say that I am one of the thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have a residential credit, the truth, not in Swiss francs, not indexed in Swiss francs, but in the euros, and I do not think as one predecessor said – that I am doomed, but as anyone who is responsible and who is responsible for his finances and his family and his future, according to the future of my children, I have carefully read the contract that I have signed, I have carefully read all those little letters and I have carefully seen that the other signator of such a contract and my credits that other people have signed in Serbia is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but not Minister Kori Udovicski, it is not Alexander Vucski, but the bank, responsible person in which was not brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which did not provide them with such conditions, at least the Government of Serbia. There's a little talk about the amendment. I'd like to read it carefully. Article 1-10 refers to mortgages based upon the entry into force of this Act. Why does the Amendment Proposer answer and say that this is a good law for those who will have a mortgage, or a mortgage from tomorrow, from the moment we adopt the law, but it's not good until today? I know that in that turn of things can happen, but in turn we cannot say – to this day this law is not good, and from tomorrow the law is good. That's impossible. Either it won't apply to anyone or it will apply to everyone, of course. Why would someone be first or second? Dangerous things are said for a congregation speaker. Yesterday we attended the speech of a folk MP who kept trying to fight us with our northern neighbour. Today, from the same MP, we hear words arguing us with a traditional friend, with Greece, over banks owned by Greek companies. Is there an end to conflict policy, a policy where media attention to some reversed attitudes will be won only by building conflicts, conflict with colleagues, conflict with the minister, and now with countries in the environment? I'm asking you in the future, Mr. Chairman, if you can't stop it, and you can't, at least you can fence yourself from it. (Branka Karavidić, from the post: Theme. And, to one who is not a subject, to point out that conflicts are the past and that no one can have a good conflict, he had to point out that the topic is not when the MP is trying to argue with us with someone. The "Effect" was created on 9 June 2011. I respect the members of "Effective", I respect that they are fighting, it is legitimate and legal, of course, but "Effectiva" was created on 9 June 2011, due to the already accumulated problems that individuals in Serbia had, and they are users of residential loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31496	Please, Mr. Granny, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31497	Of course I'll be back. And because of that, these attempts to be a lawyer of certain associations, he had to have authority, including in 2011 and 2009 and 2008, when he was a MP, when I was, and when he didn't care about those citizens, and he only had a warrant for and against, and that was all he thought about. I would be much happier, Mr. Chairman, if people did not join in Serbia and were not forced to join in such associations as "Effectiva". I'd be happier if they kept their jobs. How many of those 400,000 people, who lost their jobs because of their irresponsible policy until 2012, had residential loans? Thousands. They've lost their jobs, they've lost their futures, and they've lost their ability to pay off those loans. Did the former regime then think about them, think about their needs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31498	Please, Mr. Granny, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31499	... Thought about the loans they had to pay off? No, it's not. But this is why he now proposes an amendment to which he says - this law is good, but from tomorrow. It's not good today, but it's good from tomorrow. I would be much happier if the former regime had fought a little more, so that it would not increase the rate of the euro, Mr. Chairman, which was 93.28 dinars on 1 August 2009, and in one year, 102 dinars and 63 money on 1 August 2010. Do you think on this rate the difference for loans that are related to the course, of course, won't even jump the amount of the loan rate? They will, and people have lost their jobs. How? When did they get into trouble, now or then? On August 1, 2010, I'm sorry, we're already in 2011...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31500	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31501	... 105 dinars and 11 pairs to reach 1 August 2012 – 117 dinars and 51 pairs. In four years, the rate, or value of the euro, has increased by 24.23 dinars or slightly more than 25%. Will credit rates remain the same? He won't. What about the salaries and the ones that kept the job, not just the ones who lost their jobs? What happened to those people then? I remind you that the difference, since we have cuts on August 1st, is that on August 5th 2015, the euro rate is 120.60. In three years, three dinars and four years under the former 24 dinar regime. When people's commitments to banks grew more, when did the euro grow 24 dinars or when did three dinars grow? It is a question for those who are concerned about the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would be much happier, Mr. Chairman, if we had living domestic banks, which were destroyed by politicians, of course, in the power of the former regime, getting their hands in the pockets, on the honorary word, and without any mortgages getting massive loans. And even those who guaranteed some sheds and sheds, garages, received loans of several million euros each. The consequences of all this we see. The court epilogue is in progress and I don't want to comment on it, but the problem is that we don't have a bank and we don't have banks to tell – help our citizens, lower the wars...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31502	Please, Mr. Granny, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31503	... Give back the loans they have with some other banks under more unfavourable conditions. That's what you ruined. The only bridge that could provide these people with a little better conditions in business you have destroyed and now you bomb us with such amendments, which say – it's good for those who will have mortgages tomorrow, but it's not good for those who have to date, regardless of the twist, regardless of the appeal that we don't remember everything that happened by 2012. I don't have to remind you, I'll be here today, and tomorrow maybe not anymore, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia remind you, all those who lost their jobs, all those who lost their lives, who lost their futures, who lost those apartments when you didn't take care of them. This amendment is not sincere, this amendment is purely politics. I appeal to the amendment's promoter that we do not argue with anyone else and that no one in this room argues with anyone else to win their visibility, whatever it is, but to face arguments, but not arguments that the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the value of interest, but those who brought these banks into this market and gave them business under such conditions. I only have one question. It's easy to throw stones, it's easy to tell bankers that nobody likes, I don't know a man in Serbia who says – I love banks, but can you bear the consequences, responsibility and guilt if the banks say so – well, we don't have the right to operate under these conditions, carry our capital from Serbia and leave? What will the businessmen tell you then? What will those citizens of the Republic of Serbia then tell you that without checks or without cards can't get past that month? Who will be responsible if these banks, as a colleague said - Greek banks, so see what they are and what if they pick up their capital, they put a lock on you and go away? Are we gonna turn around then? Is that when we're going to be tumbling? Will someone else be responsible for that? And do we have domestic banks? And do we have the ability to change something? No, we don't because it's destroyed. The responsible one, who destroyed it, shall be given by the judicial authorities. I believe in them. No matter whose membership card they had or didn't have, they have to answer. But don't take responsibility just for the Government of the Republic of Serbia because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is neither a signator of a contract that the banks came to Serbia nor is this Government of the Republic of Serbia responsible for the collapse of domestic banks, nor is this Government of the Republic of Serbia a signator of my housing loan and no housing loan. Don't make any new rules. I listened to the MP who said, "No, we are introducing an honorable pioneering word." I thought I had given the honorable pioneer word once, back in 1981, 1982.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31504	Please, Mr. Babie, bring the end of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31505	So I don't know who they gave what they turned to, they gave both Tadic and Gilas and Pythić, and who they didn't give to, and now they wonder who I gave the honorable pioneer word to once and the red scarf that I only wore once in my life. But now that honorable pioneering word must be believed, without any evidence, with nothing at all. Watch out now, come to court or come anywhere and say—honest word, I have no obligation to the bank or to anyone else, and that's that. You don't need proof. I think it's a reflection of unseriousness and populism. We're here to debate. I am pleased that some amendments have been accepted, but some that are pure pulsism and pure demagogy for the Serbian Progressive Party are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31506	I thank you, Mr. Granny. My answer to you is that I know very well who's responsible because my loan war after seven years of paying is still the same, in fact, the principal is still the same. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic. Are you staying for the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31507	Articles 106 and 107. We had a chance, Mr. Chairman, to see a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the range of about 14 minutes, when an esteemed colleague on the other hand spoke absolutely of anything but the amendment. Your interruption of his exposure was, as I say, so receptive that there is already a saying in the people – but you interrupted him, like Becic Babic. So I would ask that you and I continue to interrupt as Babic and apply the same tone, the same tone, the same color of voice, the same energy in your whisper that you ask Babic to return to the topic for 14 minutes, and he refuses because he found a time machine that left in August 2015 and found the course stable. Among other things, as you've heard, he hasn't answered a single question, he's answering a story about populism. Well, normal, populism, if you're into elitism. The Elitism of the Bank, that's what you are. The IMF's elitism, it's you. Of course we're against it. You, as chairman, in my opinion, are in big trouble with that loan, Mr. Becic, but I don't think it's right for the chairman to announce it from his post. Otherwise, you have the full support of all of us to repay this loan and I am sorry that it is the same as you seven years ago, as it is for tens of thousands of Serbian citizens, which is the same amount after six-seven years of payment. It's a question of all the questions we didn't get an answer to, but we got a lesson again, a calendar review of who brought the bank, who didn't bring the bank. For four years in power, you are unable to curb the interest and hidden costs of tearing people's skin from their backs. You're in no condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31508	Time. Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, there was a very close time difference and citizens can see how I interrupted you and Mr. Babic in exactly the same way. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Not the same. ) Mr. Stefanovic, if you see any other color of voice and other emotions here, it's your problem, it's not mine. Also, Mr. Stefanovic, I only answered Mr. Babic's direct question that I know very well who is responsible for this situation where I and other Serbian citizens who have bank loans. Mr Stefanovic, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Djukanovic, by amendment, please. Mr. Veselinović, that can't be the case, but then by the Rules of Procedure and the rest. You need to know the basis of your call. The word was received by Mr. Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31509	I understand why the gentlemen across the street don't want to do their banking business. You know, they've introduced an original banking system known only here in this country, which is that, say, you can come to Agrobank, raise as much money as you want and say to the pretty eyes – it's me, and you don't give any mortgage, or any stock for that kind of thing. So you sucked out, for God's sakes, a few hundred million euros, and in this way you've so sweetly robbed Serbian citizens that I'll never forget it, so this lamentation and this crying now allegedly against their fate somehow doesn't work out. Now I have to ask the applicant of the amendment, because otherwise, Mr. Chairman, let me tell you - I've never taken a loan in my life and I'm going to try to live under these conditions with these banks that they brought in, never to take a loan. I'm not saying, never say anything, but I'll really try, because I kind of agree with what Jorge Muhika, the Uruguayan president, told Emir Kusturica at the Internet, I just have to look back, so I'm going to ask the subject of the amendment, he said, "Kusturica, you don't know anything, it's not the bank robbers who robbed them, it's the ones who founded them." I have to admit, I agree with that. This kind of system of banking business that's doing business today, and we can see that it's slowly falling apart, is really reading the citizens' robbery, but they introduced it. Now, look, you want to create a situation where these mortgages apply to the future. What, like, in the future, I want to raise a loan, so now you're trying to hurt me? It's totally amazing what someone wants to bring in here. You know, you can't have Papandreou until yesterday and make him your main guest at party meetings and force PASOK, and now you're all of a sudden Cyprus. You're suddenly a huge Cyprus fan, and until yesterday you supported the man who brought the IMF into that Greece and who just might have ruined that whole Greece. It's absolutely amazing what we're listening to today, and until yesterday, you've been clapping at your meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31510	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31511	I'll be right back. This is exactly what the amendment is about. That hypocritical behavior is similar to what the United Kingdom is doing today at the Security Council. It's hypocritical policy because the populists want to come to this today, to some vote, reportedly, they are now taking care of citizens who took credit in Swiss francs. Well, you made most of the commercials so they wouldn't take credit in Swiss francs. You ran all the campaigns to make people do it. Now you've found out that this government is incapable of helping these people because you're saying that maybe we all pay out of these people's budgets which is now the difference that it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31512	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, you must bring the exhibition to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31513	Tell the citizens of Serbia whether we all need it today to pay for what you advertised someone taking credit in Swiss francs at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31514	Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: It really doesn't make any sense. Mr. Djukanovic, I turned off your microphone. I cannot allow any more MPs in this room, since we have more members of Parliament to be reported, to continue speaking outside the agenda. I can't let you do it that way. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: If only I could finish.) Here you go. Finish your exposure. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31515	I'm sorry, Chairman, but I really had to ask those questions. I'm just asking the subject of the amendment - why does he want to damage someone in the future, if he thinks this is so bad? After all, I hope that it will never happen again in Serbia that when someone submits a request to take credit, they can take it in beautiful eyes, and there is never any security, as they did in Vojvodina Development Bank and in Agrobanka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31516	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. You think you're mentioned? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Not me personally. The Democratic Party? The Democratic Party is not mentioned unless you recognize yourself in Cyprus. Thank you. Mr. Arsic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31517	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these discussions are very interesting. So if we accept this amendment, I ask one question -- would the reference rate be based on the contracts that were concluded before this law entered into force, say, from four or five years ago be 18.5%? Speaking of green interest, we need to know that Boris Tadic's regime has set the reference rate for the Republic of Serbia at 18%, and it has given to banks. I didn't know there was a Eurolibor. Is there a eurobor and a libor and a reference interest rate, and with the very high reference rate, Boris Tadic's regime has given banks the right to rob citizens. Now the reference rate is 6.25%. She's never been lower. In Serbia's recent history, the reference rate was never lower. If the matter were even more interesting at that interest rate reference rate that would be returned if we accepted this amendment and the state would be in debt with 18 plus a margin of banks instead of the current 6.25% plus the margin of banks. We'd put money in our pockets again. You'd be green interest again. When someone talks about hundreds of thousands of euros in debt per second, I don't know about it, and I'm chairman of the Finance Committee. It's just that it's really weird that even a fellow who talks well knows that it's not, and there's no need to panic. Speaking of which, four years ago, exactly when the amendment returned to this period, Boris Tadic was in power, and the difference in the course of the euro and the franc was 1.11. At that time, the franc was strongest in its history compared to the euro, and I did not notice any MPs, nor the applicant of this amendment, to defend the effectiveness and the citizens that have been plagued by such a torment. Exactly four years ago. Exactly three years ago, on August 5th 2012, the euro course was 119,80 and the euro rate was 77 dinars on 1 August 2008. In that difference, people were out of a job. In this difference, companies have failed, and in that difference, we now have loans and mortgages that need to be activated. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know a house that averages hundreds of squares in Serbia. To bring it down, you need dynamite for a few minutes. To make it honest, it takes generations, for those who have better incomes and a whole working century. What happened to us in 2008 to 2012 was dynamite, for all of Serbia it is our house and it will take generations for that damage to be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31518	No one's answering the amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. There was no basis for replication. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: It was, Boris Tadic, the regime of Boris Tadic, was mentioned three times. Please read the Rules of Procedure. Boris Tadic was mentioned three times. I don't know what to tell you, I really don't know what to tell you. I know a member by heart, unlike anyone else, who only spins in three members and thinks it's the Rules of Procedure. I know everything, but really to recognize who he was when he was where he was and when he'd be hurt and who he was leader to. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I ask you to give me your word.) ) Don’t beg me, there’s no need for any requests, and I would ask all of you together to go back to the session and talk about amendments without talking about anything that comes to mind, because general topics were a few days ago. And, please, all MPs. Who's interested in the amendments, in dealing with amendments, who doesn't care, there are other activities of Parliament and my God, it's not mandatory to sit here. But, please, let's go back specifically to the amendments, so that we can do the specific things that we've gathered here today. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I know what you're going to do. I have to give you my word, but please, specifically the violation of the Rules of Procedure, by a member of someone you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31519	Thank you, Mr. President. Really, I think you've hurt Article 104. Rules of Procedure relating to the right to give an MP the right to reply. So it is said if the MP is mentioned personally, if his exposure is poorly interpreted, or if the presidents of the parliamentary group can, on behalf of the parliamentary group, be mentioned if his parliamentary group is mentioned. I am the president of a parliamentary group called Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. Three times in the previous presentation, Boris Tadic's regime was discussed. And if there's no basis for replica, I really don't know in any way, then anyone in this House can get the right to a replica. So, nothing, I was just looking for a line and I really can't understand why you won't give it to me. I'm not going to abuse my right now and answer, because that's not the way I work here. I really ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and give me a word based on the right to reply, because three times the president of my party has been mentioned whose name is on behalf of the parliamentary group whose I am president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31520	Thank you. The previous speaker, since he writes for something else in those articles, that the injury or replica has to be done directly, so you answer. Veroljub Arsic did not mention the person you think was mentioned several times. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He has been mentioned three times. ) Veroljub Arsic, no. Okay, let's be a little more sensitive to work. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I ask you to give me your word.) Don't beg me. We're done with this, and you can't get my explanation back, you know that. So the Rules of Procedure don't just have a member of 104, so the first two positions, there's a lot more. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Please give me your word to explain.) Can I speak? No, you can't. My answer doesn't exist, and it has to be done directly, so we won't be making a circus here, I won't allow it. You can yell, I'm quite resilient to that. Don't disturb the work, and your right is to jump if you want to. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Can I speak? Did you turn on my microphone? Of course you can't. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post:You turned on my microphone. Well, turn it off, I don't have time for technique. I don't have time, if it was a little quieter atmosphere, I'd be doing technique. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31521	In Article 18, i.e. Article 34(2). The mortgage law, after the word "sales", should be put in the following text – by first accessing auction sales, and unless the immovableity is sold on auction sales, access to it through a direct contract. Also, Article 4 in the same article and the whole should be deleted. Article 96(2) of the Implementing and Security Act provides that sales are to be made through competition, i.e. auction orders if things are of greater value or can be expected to be sold at a higher price than estimated. However, it is necessary to give priority to the sale by auction compared to the direct contract. In this proposed order, we insist because it can first be tried with one auction, and only if it fails to open the possibility of being sold directly by a contract, all because of the possible settlement of several types of mortgage creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31522	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours for the need to pass the laws of the agenda of this session. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Dubravka Filipovski submitted the 18th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Udovici, honored guest and guest from the ministry, I suppose and respected National Assembly Presidents Mrs. Gojkovic, I have also submitted an amendment to article 18 of this bill, together with MP Zoran Zivkovic and respected Mrs. Gojkovic, applying certain mathematical and logical operations, I have come to some conclusions that may be important here and Mrs. Udovic, Minister Vujković, who is not here now, but respected gentlemen, Members of the national parliaments from all the parliamentary groups and independent MPs. Here's your math, Mrs. Gojkovic. We People's MPs of the New Party have submitted seven amendments to this bill. Of these seven amendments, gentlemen and Mrs Udovici, an amendment has been adopted. This means that of the 1,289 amendments submitted for these years and three months, our 84 amendments have been accepted, gentlemen. If these figures are transferred to percentages, this means that the New Party has the success of the accepted amendments in a percentage of 6.52 and that for me, respected gentlemen and Mrs Gojkovic and Mrs Udovici, means that the New Party is recording the continuing growth of support in the electoral body. We are now at a percentage of 6.52% support, and that Mrs. Udovici accepted, Mrs. Gojkovic, all of our seven amendments, and this amendment to Article 18. The new party would then be at 7% of the accepted amendments or 7% of the support in the electoral body of our Republic, gentlemen. I now understand why Mrs. Udovici and why Mr. Vujovic and why she probably would not accept even those amendments, which we have explained terribly precisely in several paragraphs, not only in one general position, legal certainty, efficiency, precision, rule of law, but in a fundamental argument, exist for each of our amendments, or for an amendment to Article 18, respected gentlemen. What do I conclude? Because of these figures, because of the calculations, because of those thoughts that Mrs. Udovici can be wronged about one big principle, which is the principle of rule of law, we will not accept very well-founded amendments. Here's Mr. Jovicic reporting now that he's saying something, but I have to say, Mrs. Gojkovic, when I mentioned Mr. Jovičić here a little while ago, he didn't answer to replicate, even though he had a chance and then I gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31524	Talk about the amendment, don't call the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31525	I need a little reflection on something that was recently, Mrs. Gojkovic, and that is why I prefer to mention, Mr. Babic, Mr. Arsic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31526	I don't want to talk about reflections, please, just the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31527	All right. Mrs. Udovicki, there is another part of my argument for this amendment, but also for the other six unadopted amendments submitted by us by the People's MPs of the New Party. We have very precisely announced what we want to change, put it in the amendment, offer a good explanation and respected gentlemen, here is how Minister Vujovic or Mrs Udovici, as they have answered, to read to you. They answered us this way – the amendment is not accepted because the solution in the bill, in the original proposal sent by the Government, says Mrs Udovicki, more precisely and not a better way to protect the debtor, the owner of mortgaged immovableity and mortgage creditors. Dear gentlemen. It's not enough to tell. Assumption, here is my, respected Mrs. Gojkovic and Mrs. Udovic and the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the assumption is mine, which I always go from here to every person here when he proposes an amendment or some law or any solution considers that what its proposed solution, precisely, well, brings a general good, etc. And it is not honorable enough for us gentlemen to remain at one general finding of what is meant. My expectation was, and I think, respected gentlemen, a reasonable expectation that when the government offers something that is more accurate and better, and we offer something that we believe is better and more accurate and we argue, that the government explains that it is a member of the government who is in charge of this field, it is better and more precise, because this is how we now have to believe in the word, and we have no kind of argument and then it will go without any argument, gentlemen. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, there is also a third thing I would like to declare in the explanation of the amendments to Article 18, which we MPs of the New Party have submitted. Mrs. Udovicki came today and she, of course, always welcome a guest in our National Assembly, but no one has explained that today there is no Minister Vujovic, no one has said that here, and Minister Vujovic should defend those solutions and those proposals that are part of his jurisdiction. I can understand Mrs. Udovici, who is a colleague of the Government of Minister Vujovic, who now cultivates this collegiality, solidarity, may have had time, and Minister Vujovic does not, but I cannot understand the MPs, nor the MPs of the SNS, who in no address...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31528	MP, if we could talk about the amendment and the work of Parliament, about the session, I'll give you an explanation and an explanation when necessary. I'll explain everything to you, but only about the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31529	Here, neither Mr. Babic, nor Mr. Atlagic, Mr. Peranovic, no one, here I am surprised Mrs. Gojkovic, no one is asking...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31530	It's not worth reading names, I won't give them a word, because there's no basis for replication, if you say names suck all over the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31531	All right, but nobody asks a question about it and I'm surprised, because it's the duty of the MPs, Mrs. Gojkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31532	Well, you've wasted your time, and nothing on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31533	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31534	Zoran Babic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31535	By amendment, Madam President, when he's a proposing, and I'm going to ask my colleagues to let me speak. When the applicant said earlier that he was going to talk about mathematics, talk about the models that came to this mathematics, I went further into this proposed amendment, so I saw and expected that the promoters would talk about selling directly by contract until the moment of advertising auction sales, it is possible at a price that cannot be less than 75%, that in the next round that price cannot be less than 60%. I expected him to try to convince us why this math is more favourable, why is he protecting the users of mortgage loans? However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you attended another farce, where instead of these percentages that are written in the amendment, we have heard again the percentages that we have in the open parliament, how many days and nights attended the sessions of the National Assembly, how much has been proposed by the amendment, how many amendments are accepted, how many amendments are not accepted, how many children's play along with the marbles, are now high temperatures outside and the sun is high, so that children have something to do, something like debate and seeking support from the amendment promoters. Instead of mathematics, at which price and under which conditions can be sold immovableity, for a minute or two we listened why there is no Mr Vujović here. It has nothing to do with math. It has nothing to do with the mathematics of calling MPs of the name, there were no reasons for the replica, and that is to play and take away time and take away money, after all, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What led me, Mr. Chairman, to what conclusion did this make me? That the promoters are amendment plagiarists. They don't know what they're signing, so somebody else is writing to them, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, so they're just signing. When you sign something that's not yours, what else is plagiarism? When you talk about math that has nothing to do with the amendment, what's that other thing than plagiarism? Well, the only thing authentic is their "wipe" and all they know is "delegate," everything else they write, and what makes sense, and what we want to debate is a simple plagiarization of the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31536	You, Mr. Pavicevic, want a replica? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Of course.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31537	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests from the ministry, dear Mr. Arsenovic, three things to say now in the replica to Mr. Babic. If Mr Babic is suspected of being a plagiarist, I call on Mr Babic to publicly state in the new replica now that at the first session of the next regular session, he will vote in favour of the New Party's proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, which introduces the principle of academic integrity, which is a key dam for every plagiarism and auto-plagiarism, respected gentlemen. Here, tell Mr. Babic you'll accept our proposal to fight plagiarism. The second thing, Mr. Babic referred only to this mathematical part of my proof but I, the respected Mr. Arsenovic, said that I had served mathematical operations and logical operations and based on mathematical and logical operations made certain conclusions why Mrs. Udovicki or Minister Vujovic did not adopt our amendments. Mr Babic, dear gentlemen, says he is surprised that I have not explained our amendment regarding a member who has one position, a second position, a third position, and my assumption is, gentlemen, that every MP here has read our written explanation for our amendment to Article 18 and that there is no need for me to read again what I have written, and for what I suppose the MPs already know. Mr. Arsenovicu, I have made an additional argument as to why our amendment should be adopted. Third, it is not appropriate for Mr Arsenovic, that any of us here, as an argument, use the price of holding a session of the National Assembly, as Mr Babic has now done. When that argument is used, it's an argument against parliamentaryism in our country, dear gentlemen, and I will always fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31538	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31539	I'd like my colleagues to propose amendments to that price to think about when they vote here and these amendments, so that the time they're paid to spend in this room, they don't spend in Belgrade cafes and restaurants, in the thick shade, but to vote, but to stay until the end. I'm telling you, none of the amendment's proposings, of this amendment, were present at more than 10%, when we're already dealing with mathematics and logic, at more than 10% of the vote and collectively both. Why didn't they think about the price then? Why didn't they think about the price when they burned down this building, when they were taking out TVs, art pictures, chairs, who came up with what then and who grabbed what? I'm telling you, at no time at all, and if the amendment promoter is now reading what he signed a few days ago, he can't explain any single position of the proposed amendment in logic or in mathematics because he doesn't understand it, because he hasn't even tried to teach it. About plagiarists in politics I will always support a law that will prevent such things, plagiarists in politics. These amendments proposed by these proposings are pure plagiarism. The only originals they can give are "wipe out".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31540	We won't do it anymore. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I answer the word. ) Please Pavić, the replica loses its meaning and I will not allow any more replicas. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Editor of the Amendment. He didn't mention your name. He has the floor of the MP by amendment Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31541	Thank you, Your Honor. The sun is strong, you will agree, and under the influence of that probably many talk and do not resent it, but it is simply amazing that someone who writes an amendment cannot even explain it because he has not read it. If you'd read the amendment to what it says here, you'd actually want to choke the possibility of anyone ever coming to collect. You want to choke the mortgage institute and that's what you won't tell the citizens, but since you mentioned some percentages here, you shouldn't have read these here, I can only thank you in one, and that's because you're your partners you're sitting with really ruined on the political scene and we thank you from the heart for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31542	I ask the MPs not to comment on how anyone explains his amendment. I think it's an individual thing and now it's downplaying whether or not it can be done, and I don't think it's relevant in my opinion, and I'm asking you that in that sense you can, everyone has the right to have the opposite opinion, to think differently about both the proposal and the applicable law, but to express their opinion in a dignified way. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31543	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have tried to assess what the amendment promoter wanted to say with the amendment and I have entered into essence. Their first position says – selling by direct contract until the time of advertising auction sales is possible at a price that cannot be below 75% of the estimated value of the item 3. of this article. In the law of pistachio, please listen – selling by direct contract until the moment of advertising auction sales is possible at a price that cannot be lower than 90%. So, if you have one, don't give God the mortgage, if there's a real estate sale, the law says it can't be below 90% by direct contract. The amendment promoter decided to side with the creditors against citizens and say it was 75% of the estimated value. So, this amendment is directly at the expense of the citizens, directly at the expense of the debtors and goes in favour of the creditors. The law says 90% and they're asking you to get only 75% for that property. Mr. Chairman, I express this with fear and a chill since His Elitist Majesty has disputed and last time has disputed my right to comment on the amendments they have submitted. I keep trying to read what they have proposed, regardless of what they themselves do not want to read Please, in future, when someone raises doubts, or asks that some of the other MPs do not have the right to comment on their amendments, since the amendment promoter asked me to warn him, given that we are all equal here, and I have already experienced it and it is almost impossible for someone who has said that this sanctuary is democracy, this Assembly, asks that certain MPs do not have the right to comment on the amendments they propose. Here I have dared, regardless of that ban by the Elitist Majesty to try to explain to the citizens that they asked that their properties in the case of sales, which God did not allow anyone to happen, do not go 90% of the estimated value, but go by 75% of the estimated value. As the percentages presented by the amendment's proposing, I must say that amendments must not be defended by dreams, illusions, imaginations, that they have about 7%. I guess they forgot to move forward two places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31544	Mr. Risticevic, I didn't say no one had the right to comment. I don't think so. I think everyone has the right to comment, it's just the way they say it. Okay, it's okay. Mr. Pavicevic, on what basis do you want the word? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Replica his three. No, don't. Mr. Pavicevic, I want to give the replica, but she loses her sense as soon as she gets off the line, let's say, or from the subject of a professional debate and goes on to bickering and a little, let's say, and insult, demeaning, I think then the replica really doesn't make sense. I just don't want to let this assembly go that way. Please, I don't think you have a basis for replication, and thank you very much. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31545	Not 16. I've already spoken under that amendment. I think it would be unnecessary to explain again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31546	I'm sorry, I read it wrong. So, the 18th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Thank you for pointing to my lapus. I apologize again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31547	Of course. Thank you, Chairman. I want to do it again. So the Turnover Movement has handed over seven amendments. They are fully in line with the interests of Serbian citizens who have a mortgage on their property. I do not want to refer to the senseless comments of MPs who have only one reason to reason with an attempt to change this law in favour of Serbian citizens. You have no hearing for 2/3 of citizens living on the edge or below the edge of social endurance, or below the edge of social misery. You're blinded by power, gentlemen. That comes from the way you treat citizens. So, absolutely in agreement with the amendments I have submitted are the demands of an association that protects citizens from the appetite of banks. When I say and ask that this law does not apply retroactively, it just means that we do not allow citizens who entered a mortgage seven years ago on their real estate, now under new conditions await the activation of that mortgage. Those who now conclude the mortgage agreement know what awaits them and if they want to do so, it is, of course, their responsibility. These citizens who entered the mortgage seven, eight years ago are given new difficult conditions in which their property will be sold under very, very unfavourable conditions for themselves. That's why I'm against retroactivity in this respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31548	Thank you. I ask the MPs to lower their tones in each other's comments. I have to listen to the speaker, and I can't hear a man buzzing. Lucky he speaks loudly, so I hear him. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31549	Thank you. A prominent member of this one-member movement while he was a member of another party, I don't remember anything that he endured such amendments for a simple reason because then the banks, which they had brought in, were absolutely taking away property from people, apartments and apartments, houses and houses, tractors and tractors, were taking people in the most brazen way, because these banks were brought here not to credit the economy, but literally to take away property. Then he didn't think to protect those citizens, and now he's making an amendment, knowing citizens, making such an amendment that it can't be applied until the moment this law is passed, but these later let them all grab if they take the loan. It's something that's hypocritical to the extent that I really don't understand how anyone has the courage to come forward and explain something like this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31550	Mr. Djukanovic, I can understand your disagreement, but once again I ask you to speak with your choice of words about the amendment and the people who talk about it. Now I-I didn't want to have to give Veselinovic the right to the replica. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31551	Thank you, Chairman. I don't want to look directly at what my colleague said, because, apparently, he doesn't understand the pain that the citizens who took the loan are in. They took a loan seven, eight years ago, when salaries and pensions grew, when pensions grew and wages, when VAT was lower, when there was no electricity excise, when citizens paid 30% of one salary, they now needed two salaries to pay off one war of credit. That's what this is about. While colleagues reporting for the word were in power, at the time, unfortunately, there was no possibility of taking credit, as the salary was one mark. But they haven't done anything in the last three years so people can pay back their salaries. They cut salaries and pensions, increased VAT, increased VAT on milk, bread, etc., introduced electricity excise. People have lost their ability to repay credit. People who are interested in paying off a real-estate loan to get the bank back what they really took, but not green interest, say this law is a noose around their necks. You gentlemen support that. You're making all kinds of demagogue stories. You're talking about the years they ate, as you say, some others, who were destroyed by others. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31552	I've been tolerant, and I've allowed you to finish those two minutes, although you've talked to everything else, except for doing the replica. Please don't abuse my understanding of you. I mean all the MPs. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31553	This is amazing. I would only ask to be told – and which pensioner had a mortgage loan? Because you took them so deep, you ruined them. Who could have gotten a mortgage loan from them because the blood cells were watching these banks to whom they were giving those loans. You who destroyed the pensioners, but destroyed them to the ground, you found now to talk about how they can't pay that loan, you who brought the banks here to rob people of property and to give them freedom of business and to take out about 55 billion euros from this country, you have now found that people don't have to pay off. Well, you first didn't have any empathy or feelings for those people. I don't know how you're not ashamed. Is it possible that you're so hot for this demagogy, I suppose you're some big leader and you might be the new Cyprus? However, you have competition in your former party colleague. But until yesterday, you touched the man who brought the IMF to that same Greece, Papandreou. So, you can play Cyprus 100 times today, too, because you really have absolutely no basis for talking about the sad fate of the people you've brought to the beggar stick and to the brink of destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31554	Mr. Ristichevich, I misclicked the button. I'm sorry. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: No, you are not. ) First he has the word of MP Marko Djurisic, and so do you. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: No problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31555	Thank you, Your Honor. The good thing about a debate of this kind is that then you see the real essence of the amendments to the law that the government has proposed. So on the amendment, which suggests that the new proposed measures apply only to new loans, we hear the argument -- you want these terrible conditions to apply only to those new ones, not to these old loans. So, by rejecting this amendment, the proposal is that these new terrible conditions apply to everyone, to make everyone worse, and that's what's going to happen when this law is passed. Everyone's gonna get worse. It's worse every day for the last three years and, unfortunately, it's going to be worse every day of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31556	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31557	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I must be extremely careful, given that the fellow amendment promoter is very gentle. Yesterday, he imagined I threatened him, even though it was clear from the transcripts that it wasn't there. I didn't mention his name, so you have to listen to me very carefully, given that there can be any twists at any moment. By the way, I have nothing against what you have given him the right to reply, although the Turnover Movement is not a political party and it cannot be the basis for replication, but may this positive discrimination, which adorns you, contribute to the work of this Parliament in many ways. So, according to the amendment, I understand that the proposer wants to, I welcome, put the robbed citizens in the first place, but what I find unacceptable is that he does not want to show the citizens that he was involved in this robbery, and that he himself, in an indirect manner, is passing regulations, laws and other acts that affected them today and that they may be able to get mortgages activated. I also understand that he wants these mortgages not to be active where they were wrong, that is, for the debts that have arisen, the loans that were created during their reign, because these loans were at very high rates, in very awkward currencies, so they want to hide their responsibility in every way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to make fish stew. You can make fish soup out of the aquarium, but you can't make fish soup into an aquarium. The worst thing that's happened to Serbia is that you lose your life, and you're still alive. We cannot today correct those illogicalities and the consequences that they could have sinned. Furthermore, I don't understand people who ran a very cheap policy, and they cost us a lot. I do not understand these arguments and amendments – what we did wrong now does not apply; in the future, what you did will only apply. So, they, the former regime's party, are the most responsible for what we are today, most of all, empty pockets, citizens we represent, misery, poverty. The fault is certainly up to them, and instead of having some words of self-critics, they want to put all their guilt on someone else. My fellow citizens, better tomorrow, I can't take you to those who robbed you yesterday, and that applies to a fellow promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31558	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31559	I've been thinking about what it would mean if we adopted this amendment, but if we applied it to some other laws. I think it would cause total anarchy. Let's say, in the Traffic Safety Act, imagine the situation that lights have to include only those who buy new cars, because those who have used cars or old cars wouldn't have to, say, light lights, and those who have and buy new cars would know about these conditions and they'd have to have lights on. Let's say, seat belts. Imagine, in the Traffic Safety Act, that we apply the logic of the amendment promoter, so let's say, belting only applies to new drivers, because, my God, those old drivers, if they knew they had to tie the belt every day, they wouldn't have laid at all, they wouldn't have even been allowed at all. Why would they lie if they knew they had to tie their seat belts? I think that this logic, the populist and the bad for parliamentaryism and life in Serbia, could cause so many twists that from these twists, we could all get in our heads and that no belt could, of course, stop us from applying such logic to any other law and thus dissipate everything that this National Assembly in any of these 10 calls for us so far. Because of this logic and this application to other laws, I think this amendment is bad, and that's why the SNS won't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31560	Mr. Veselinović, on what grounds do you want? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You have no right. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 20th amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31561	I have to say I'm very concerned about you, I mean SNS MPs. So, one of the MPs of the Turnover Movement, you're still saying that I don't have a party, but a movement, so you're so afraid that five of you are reporting to deny what's impossible to deny and defend the banks from me, so that's just impossible. You're in a much worse situation than I thought. You have a problem, 210 MPs, to protect the banks, of course there is no minister, neither, nor the other, and you are in such a panic that five of you are reporting to explain something that is impossible to explain, and it is impossible to explain, Mr. Chairman, that someone who concluded the contract eight years ago would not have concluded the contract. That is why, as a rule, Serbia's constitution states, laws do not apply retroactively, and I only asked for constitutional norms to be provided so that laws do not apply to those who could not know that there would be some difficult, worse conditions for them, or for their immobility. If one head of the parliamentary group, the big parties, doesn't understand it, so I'm really scared for you. Not for you, I'm afraid for the Republic of Serbia, for the country where I live, which these days threatens with a four-metre fence, and at the top of that fence is barbed wire, and you've brought this country into a state that never existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31562	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31563	If you, Mr. Chairman, think I don't have the right to a replica, I will speak by amendment, but I think the mention of the SNS is, in one pervasive sense, and more than a reason for replication. Someone who builds his political visibility on something that doesn't exist, because the political party behind which he hides doesn't exist, who only builds his political visibility on conflicts yesterday, that yesterday the conflict has seen with Hungary, today is a real conflict with Greece, yesterday he was conflicting with his colleague Marijan Risticevic, today he has targeted me, tomorrow someone else, I really don't know where the end is, and what is the end of this kind of harassment that we are experiencing from fellow Members of Veseinovic? What's it all about? The ultimate legal knowledge, perhaps? Or what he supported and worked in this House? He raised his hands and was all happy, applauding that 200,000 of Tadic's jobs. Of course he forgot. He's responsible for 400,000 people who lost their jobs. He is responsible for the growth of the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget, responsible for every robbery privatisation in Serbia by 2012, responsible for the devasted values in the AP Vojvodina, responsible for the robbery of the Vojvodina Development Bank, is responsible for the robbery of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. He is responsible for everything that has been done badly in this country by 2012. And it is not enough to say - I turned around by turning the shape of the glasses he wears and by now, under his name instead of the party's name, he will stand the name of a movement in which he and Janko Vesenovic and no one else are now stopping and preventing debate in the National Assembly. Who is Janko Veselinović to determine how many people will report on what amendment? Who is Janko Veselinović who will determine who will and who is afraid of whom? I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Chairman, banks are only defended by robbers, only by those who enter at night, or by day as the former regime's representatives did. One comes in with a sock on his head, the other comes in with great hospitality, the same effects. Entered the robber or entered Janko Veselinović and Bojan Pajtic, an effect the same. The banks are failing. There's no money, it's related, it's stolen, it's the same effect, it's been entered by day, it's been entered at night. I think the state only has to defend the banks from those who come in at night with a sock on their heads and the same ones who come in by day...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31564	I'm begging you, Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31565	... Just without a sock on your head, but the effect for the banks is the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31566	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31567	Chairman, I think you should have warned Mr Babic, but since you did not, here I call on all citizens of Serbia and the competent institutions to check every penny I have earned and to check every penny Mr Babic earned. The way he and I both earned it, morality and legality, and all those who know me and Mr. Babic, let them say everything they know. I don't think it would be good for Mr. Babic to say that. However, I will not focus on Mr Babic, I will focus on the citizens of Serbia who suffer because of one bad party policy whose president of the parliamentary group, a party that defends the monopoly position of the banks in Serbia, a party that puts a noose around the door of mortgage debtors, otherwise which puts a noose around the neck of all those who live from their work or from their past work, I mean also on pensioners, I think of all those who have honestly earned their capital, who have worked honestly, who have finished school, who have received diplomas based on what they have learned and not because they have bought diplomas. I speak on behalf of all of them, Mr Babic speaks for the powerful capital that invites him to cocktails and which is why the Serbian Parliament starts 15 minutes earlier so that he can have another cocktail at the embassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31568	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31569	I see Mr. Vesenović has a dog behind my face and work, follows me where I'm going, by which embassies, by whom I'm hanging out, that's good. Here, I'll give him a picture of me in natural size, so when he goes home to the wall, like a wallpaper or something, then he'll be braver, as it is in the explanation, but Mr. Vesenovic sees what's on the embassies, next to those cocktail bars, because most often those who lean against these bars see things, from Zoran Babic, to the white mice. There's a lot going on with the long-term consumption of cocktails. At least that's how much I learned from biology in elementary school. Not anymore. But what I would like to do by bringing this debate into one normal course, I would ask the amendment promoter and all the others -- and who brings these and such banks to Serbia? Who lets them work under these conditions? Who took a picture of Miskovic, then the banks? Who allowed them to advertise and advertise such conditions of housing and other loans? Who was it that Veselinovic voted for, how many times for the governor? For the same governor who used to grab people on the street by the sleeve and walk into the bank and say, "These are your best terms, take credit in Swiss francs?" Who's responsible now? For Soskovic, is this Government of the Republic of Serbia responsible? Is Vučić or Veselinović responsible for Šoškovic? Grandmother or Pavicevic? Who's responsible? Only Vesenovic voted for that and such a governor, was Vesenovic the only one who voted for that and such a government that allowed banks to behave on such conditions. He didn't mind at the time. That's when he applauded such conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31570	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31571	That was great back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31572	Time, Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31573	Now they don't accept... (Zoran Babic, from the scene: Just one more sentence.) You shut me out. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31574	I did. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31575	I would tell Mr Babic, really wanting to bring an end to this replica, to lead home everyone who brought the country into that state and Mr Dinkic, and Mr Djelic, who now privatises "Telecom", chosen by Aleksandar Vukic. Let him take home and Miskovic, I'm not saying this in any pervasive sense, so here they are to you. I've never supported what they've been doing, and that should be checked by the authorities responsible for that, Mr. Babic, have them check the courts, check the DA's office for everything you're saying. And every time I voted for the laws, I voted in public. I've never covered my head in a newspaper to vote for the law. You know exactly what I'm talking about, Mr Babic, you well know which laws you voted for covered by the "Political" newspaper by the MPs of another party. So, Mr. Granny, don't talk about morality, please. Let's try to focus today on the Law on amending and supplementing mortgage laws. Don't talk about voting, don't talk about some people I don't have a good opinion about. Mr. Dinkic is in a privileged position in the SNS, his assistants, directors open the doors of the ministries, not members of the SNS gentlemen. The main frames are Dinkic's personnel. My God and my previous parties, directors of many companies, not SNS personnel, and they know that well those colleagues sitting behind you, Mr. Babic, you know that. So take them home, I got nothing to do with them. If I ever voted for something, I voted publicly in the best of faith.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31576	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. We're done with the replicas. Any further replica loses its meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31577	I'd like it to be shown to me that it's covered in the head and votes here in the National Assembly. Please see if there's any alcohol in this bottle or if there's water or something else, it seems to me that there's some percentages, probably something that's not allowed. It is easy to say – here I give you Dinkic, Djelic, Miskovica, take them home. Well, you created them, Mr. Janko Veselinovic. You created them. Who was Dinkic on the list in 2008, when you entered parliament? He was with you. Who Dinkic lied with you on the list, whom you applauded for 1000 euros, only to vote for Tadic, to make Tadic the president of the state. He did it with you. You applauded him and you led him around Novi Sad and Belgrade and across Serbia. You kept all those promises behind him. And you mean to say now - I have a bad opinion about him, take him home. You created him, you take him home. You say – take Miskovic home, and who made Miskovic? Who made Miskovic, when Miskovic got rich? With the power of the SNS? Again, there are some judicial authorities who have to find out and who have to make judgments. And you did everything you could to block those processes, to stop those processes. You can't stop life in Serbia. And now I'm taking Miskovic home? You take him home, you've created him, you've made him, you've made him rich, Mr. Veseinovic. The only place I can get people like that to go is to a building on Ustasha Street, to a special court building for organized crime. You say take Djelic home. And whose couch did he come to sleep on? Who brought him to sleep on his aunt's couch and how that aunt's couch created 11m euros with what you say you voted in public, and now I'm taking him home. No, you're taking him home, Mr. Veselinovic. You made it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31578	By amendment, Mr. Djukanovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Udovici, honored guests from the Ministry, Mr. Arsenovicu, I now advertise Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, which states that the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I, Mr. Arsenovicu, am surprised to see how you today as chairman of the National Assembly session are violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now in this article. Mr. Babic mentioned earlier, Mr. Arsenovic, that there are some bottles of alcohol here in the assembly room, suggesting that there are some people here who may be drunk, Mr. Arsenović. It was your obligation to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovic, to warn Mr Babic that it is not right to treat other MPs in this way, that if Mr Babic continues to do so, Mr Arsenovic, he should be treated on the basis of an article. 109, 110 to 113, you give a warning measure to preserve the dignity of our National Assembly as a central political institution in our constitutional system, Mr Arsenovic. Mr Arsenović, instead of doing so, you allow three, four, five SNS MPs to replicate to Mr Vesenovic, insult Mr Vesenovic and me, and then, Mr Arsenovic, instead of warning those MPs, you warn Mr Vesenovic or me of inappropriate behaviour, and we are just trying to convince Mrs Udovic and the MPs to accept our amendments to the Mortgage Law proposal, Mr Arsenović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31580	Mr. Pavicevic, if punishment will contribute to increasing dignity, here, I will first give myself a warning. Please, but before I give myself a warning, I want to say one thing: you don't follow, I don't think of you personally now, but I speak in principle, and when they both said, I begged them to come back on the subject. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I did not hear. Well, you didn't hear. Just when Babic finished, I particularly stressed that the way he expressed his opinion on the topic, on the agenda, was taken care of. I made that clear and decadent. I can't put each and every one of you individually, I don't have the power to put into your head any way anyone can talk. It's a choice each and every one of you individually. I'd be the happiest, just to say, if there were really an argument and criticism here that I respect in every way, but which would be justified and shown in a dignified way. In that sense, I can support all your suggestions here, but it's not just up to me. It depends on all of you here talking. Therefore, given the measures I have taken, other than punishment, I feel that when I punish, then, individually, unfortunately, I want that, when the MPs hear it, it is all wrong for all of you to know that I have made a warning. To me, I have to tell you, and to say this, it's extremely difficult for me to put my hand in someone else's pocket. I'm having a hard time falling. It's the easiest thing for me to do. I can make ten warnings here in no time. I can even say that my conscience is completely clean, but I would love it if every one of the MPs were to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure of the other MP applied it to himself. That's what I'd like. Therefore, you have the right, I believe that my conscience is clear and that I did not injure the Rules of Procedure, your right, Mr Pavicevic, that in the day of the vote... ? (No) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31581	Mr. Chairman, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, and I think that the humiliation of the dignity of the National Assembly when there is a double archbishop, when there is one such book of regulations that applies to some MPs and where there is another book of regulations that applies to some other MPs and that this book only applies to SNS MPs and that it is even more rigid and possible that we do not report for the word. It would be best if we didn't come to the National Assembly. It would be best if we turned one face and the other cheek, without the other Members of the People, so that the other MP can tell his colleague – you drink cocktails at the embassy and then you come to the National Assembly, which means you're having an alcoholic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31582	Mr. Granny, I'm sorry. No, no, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31583	I'm just explaining to you why there are other arches and it doesn't bother anyone, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31584	I can't accept it. You'll have to listen to me. You'll have to, no matter what. If I apply two Rules of Procedures to another party, then I'm ready here to stand up and leave and not to chair anymore. Please, Granny, then take care of what you say, no matter what you say. I won't stand for that kind of thing and I won't let it happen. I'm ready right now, if you're saying it was me, I'm gonna get up right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31585	You didn't understand me, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31586	Then take care, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31587	If you'll excuse me, I respect the way you run and chair the National Assembly and I think that by your years and your experience and your patience you bring every session into a normal and decent course and I am very grateful for that. When I say double-arshini, I think it's responding to some words, and other words, which may have been scarier or caused these first words, are not responding. I think of those standards that other MPs point to. I don't mean you and I don't think you have those double standards. I told you how I feel about your presidency, but I think about MPs who, when the members of the SNS are offended, are applauded, and then when such a reaction is responded to by a reaction that I am often not happy with and because of which I am not happy, then the injury of the Rules of Procedure is advertised. Those double arches are far from the rule of law, now I will be accurate and precise, light-years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31588	This is just another proof that it can not be clearly said enough, and secondly, to cause a negative reaction. Look, understand, I realized it was me who applied it, and thank you for denying it. I owe that apology because I never get sick of it. Should we plead? (No) According to the amendment, Mr Djukanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31589	And considering this amendment, the esteemed promoter said something terrible, and that's that we're SNS, I don't know how he made that conclusion to the bank's protectors. I was just shocked. Shame on him. But indeed, it was a disgrace to him. Why am I saying this? Because if someone wants to protect the banks, this kind of amendment will actually protect them. This is the amendment that protects banks. But if we're talking about the protection of banks, so you were in the party, you voted for it, since you were head of the parliamentary group while Mirko Cvetkovic was Prime Minister, and you defended everything he did here. As Prime Minister, he was one of the main people in the consulting house, at Ces Mekon, as you had half the party in the Ces Mekon, who were also in many banks as consultants, plus they were at the Privatisation Agency, plus they were in banks that you so systematically robbed, from Agrobanka to how far I don't know. And you're saying today that someone is the protector of the banks. Well, you're a couple of excellant examples of a protector of banking capital, this criminal who's been coming here all these years. You really should be ashamed of what you're doing. I'm convinced that citizens have a little longer memories than these three years. They're deeply aware of what you've been doing here and how you've made it possible for the banks to rob citizens and how you've allowed them to have no control over that kind of business policy, but to control all the transactions in this country that are going on. Well, you're, for example, the one who shut down the SDK, and you made it possible for banks to control every business transaction in this country. And who are you telling today is the patron of banking capital? You're the ones who ruined this country with a policy of financial, whatever you want, which you've run all these years and you have no right to say-- now you're carrying someone. You're saying that today there are some personnel and parties, Mr. Dinkic, sitting down. Yes, you brought them there and left them to make this country economically dependent on many of these financial institutions. If we really want to be honest, it's hard to put them away today, but even if, unlike your time, they don't ask anymore, and they've made all the key decisions for this country. That's a big difference. This government, unlike yours, is still sovereign and self-determined, and someone whispered to you on the side and subtly subsidized what decisions to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31590	Thank you. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Arsenovic, the respected Mrs Udovici and distinguished guests and guest from the Ministry, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 20, Mr Arsenovic, of this bill and two things I would like to declare to the Members of the People, above all, as part of an explanation for this amendment. First, Mrs Udovici and Mr Vujovic responded to us this way why they do not accept our amendment. It says – the amendment is not accepted because the formulation in the bill is clearer, more precise, etc. Again, gentlemen, we have no argument as to how this is more clear. And not only that, but I am, of course, opening a dictionary, because we already have experience working with Mrs. Udovici, who when she wants to finish something quickly – we do not accept it because this is our cellular, meaningful, uses some synonyms, I find the term "accurate", writes – precise, which is pointed out in clarity. So precision and clarity. We have again, gentlemen, the accumulation of certain words rather than the introduction of arguments. I simply, as one MP, must respond to it, because in a certain way this approach represents one kind, Mr Arsenovic, of humiliation, not only of the subject of the amendment, but of the National Assembly, which we all claim to be the sanctuary of political life. Please, Mr Arsenovic, that one thing from today's session is that Mr Babic has given his word that he will vote for a proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education at the first session of the next regular session, in a stenogram to enter here, so that when Mr Babic comes October the month that all of us here together should fight for academic honesty and against plagiarism, Mr Arsenovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31592	Now I ask you, Mr. Pavicevic, to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31593	Well, you didn't give me a line, Mr. Arsenovic, when it was time for the replica, so then I have to figure out ways to get it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31594	But I now have to react to your previous breach of the Rules of Procedure, that we should simply stick to the agenda. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31595	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable citizens of Serbia, of course I will not accept this amendment for three reasons, and I will explain all three very briefly. The first reason is because I think the amendment's proposings don't really mean it, because I'm not sure they're convinced of the amendments they've proposed themselves. It is known that they, by the rule of the voting day, never vote for their amendments. I'm in charge of precise data. As I keep the assembly records on their vote, 2% voted in favour of the amendments they proposed, not 6%, as they claim. I don't think it's democratic, it's not civilized, and in the end, I don't think it's a political and democratic culture. The second reason why I won't support the amendment is that the formulation of this article by the promoter is really clearer, to say better than the formulation of the amendment promoter. So that's another reason. The third reason is because this amendment, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, as well as the whole law, and not only this amendment, has a foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, of the 20th exposé he submitted here last year in the National Assembly. Mr. Vice President Arsenovic, explaining one of the amendments to the previous, one of the amendment's proposings, if you have seen, offended me severely, me and Mr. Miletic, that we are not high-minded. I don't want to answer that, but allow me one sentence since I haven't answered. I may not be high-minded, it will be tried by citizens of Serbia, my students, fellow professors and fellow MPs, but you should know that I will never, ever, ever put my hand into the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as one of the proposings who took 530,000 subsidies and just because he pecked the vine on grass. I may not be very smart, but I will never vaccinate chickens and take water instead of vaccines and sell people water for vaccines. And in the end, I may not be very smart, but I will never, ever, ever smuggle as one of the promoters, even if it's Turkey's pumpkins. Let me finally say that there's really no point in supporting this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31596	Mr. Pavicevic, would you like a replica? (Yes) You have no basis for replication. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the law offers a more favourable solution, and a more favourable solution to this amendment because it will be classified as a legal representative, while they are asking for him to be authorized, so I think we should keep the existing proposal. As for everything else, Mr. Babic will not only vote for the Law on Higher Education, I will vote, but on condition that my fellow farmer, and his party colleague, finishes college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31598	Don't, Marianne, please, leave the Higher Education Act now. Are you done or not? (Marian Risticevic, from the place: I did not finish. You broke up on your own. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31599	Mr. Chairman, therefore, I said that unlike the amendments, I was talking about his amendment, and I think that the legal solution in the law is better than the amendment, but by the way, I said, given that there have been various offers, that, behold, I will also vote in favour of this Law on Higher Education, but provided that my fellow farmer finishes college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31600	Leave the Higher Education Act now. I know Mr. Pavicevic is interested in him. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You have no basis for replication. You really don't. Peaceful consciences, I tell you that. Since there's no one registered for this amendment, we're going to go to the next one. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Susana Spasojevic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Borislav Stefanović and Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Aida Ćorović together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić and Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr Blažje Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31601	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Honorable Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, in Article 27. The bill is regulated that the termination of the mortgage and I would say that this member of the bill is more legal-technical, since when the original text of the law is looked at then it is actually the conclusion. In addition, however, we felt that this member should be extended and we suggested that there be two other positions in addition to this proposed text. From this point of view, we felt that the following should stand – in the event that the claim of the mortgage trustee is secured by mortgages on two or more immovableities, the owner of the mortgaged immovableity may require the termination of the mortgage on his immovable property, if the mortgages on the remaining immovableities represent sufficient security of the claim. Then, we felt that another position should be added in which it would stand - that the mortgage trustee could not object to the termination of the mortgage required by Article 2 if his claim was sufficiently secured by mortgages on the remaining immovableities. So here, as I said, it's about the termination of the mortgage, and we thought that besides the owner of the mortgage, the termination of the mortgage could also be sought by other owners whose immovableities include mortgages, if that claim is fulfilled. We feel it is necessary to standardise the situation, as I said, in which the claims of a mortgage trustee are secured by the recording of mortgages on more immovable property. It is possible, in particular, to reduce the value of the claim, or debt, in the event of the dues, and thus to stop the need to provide all these mortgages with the same amount of the claim. That is why we have proposed a solution to which the reduction of claims can be subsistently omitted from mortgages, provided that the remaining debt is provided to a sufficient extent. In this way, the interests of not only the trustee are protected, but also the debtor, which is the basis of the law as stated in the reasoning of the bill, as well as in the opening statement that we could hear the other day. The reasons for not accepting this amendment states that the amendment is not accepted because it violates the principle of autonomy of the will of the Contracting Parties, leaves one party too much discretion in the decision, which may influence the right of the other Contracting Party. On the contrary, we believe that if this amendment were accepted, the other side would be protected, because autonomy is respected, and on the other hand there is no need to exist if the claim is absolutely fulfilled by selling one mortgaged immovableity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31602	The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31603	Thank you, Chairman. When it comes to this law and this amendment, the fact is that the government had no ear for the proposals that were essentially meant to fix this law, i.e. to protect the users of financial services. I wish you'd get an answer from Minister Udovici, which is why there is no Mr Vujovic here today. You've given yourself up, Mrs. Widowsky, or you've left the defense of this law to the MPs. I am not sure that you knew the legislator's intention, or legislator's, to the end, better said, which proposed the amendments of these members. I'm saying, apparently, this was written by a person in one of the banks or several banks. Mrs. Udovicki, we're tearing down some existing institutes here, replacing them with some new legal institutes where the role of banks, or trustees, is first and foremost strengthened. I'm afraid, Mrs. Udovici, that the legal certainty not only of those who are, or over whose property the mortgage is entered, but also of those who have yet to write a mortgage on their property that there will be a fear that someone will unwittingly sell their immovableity for what they don't actually owe. That is why I believe it is the introduction of legal uncertainty for all citizens and legal persons who take credit and provide it with a mortgage. That's why I think you should have been more understanding, at least because of those people who took those loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31604	Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31605	Thank you, Chairman. I have another appeal for the Minister, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to try to rise above the interests of the banks, above the interests of the powerful, above the interest of the financial oligarchy and to try to understand that in this country live citizens living on their humble salaries, from their humble pensions and who cannot repay loans, which are burdened not only on the main and not only on the agreed interest, but on the commitments that banks themselves have made under the general conditions they have added as a commitment to carrying out the loan. So they're not banks that are essentially 90% of the ones benefiting from a mortgage. They do not activate the mortgage on the debt agreed on on the date of conclusion of the contract but on what they thought they should place on the debtor's burden to bring him into the situation first, that he cannot repay the loan and on the other hand sell the immovable property so that he remains without a roof over his head. Therefore, Mrs. Udovicki, talk to Mr. Vukic about the fact that in Serbia there are citizens who live on their salary and on their pensions. He's, by all accounts, out of the real world. His party colleagues tell him what's not true, what's not happening in reality. They don't have the ability to pay back even the basic debt, let alone the interest and the costs charged by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31606	The amendment says Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31607	Indeed, Mrs. Udovicki, here, I refer this appeal to you just as the applicant of the amendment, to inform Mr. Vukic that someone had previously made it possible for citizens to take such insidious loans that banks had given under abnormal conditions, and that at that time not a single word said against it. Where citizens were forced to take credits of 17%, where they were interest, and that is all the earlier applicant of the amendment looked kindly, he laughed at these people, so that today he would allegedly cry over their fate. That you inform him, Mrs. Widowsky, because it's called hypocrisy and because he would have to know what kind of people are sitting in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31608	National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic and Aida Ćorovic together. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Tuesday 7 July 2015 starting at 16.40 minutes as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-07-0.u31609	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Mortgage Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – five abstentions – no, one of the 161 MPs was not present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Goran Ciric, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovc, Balša Bozovic and Aide Ćorović to members 1, 2 and 30, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavić to members 3 and Miroslav Markic and Dubravka Filipovski to members 18. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs was submitted to the 1st amendment, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 147 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the LSV group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the BORIS TADIĆ group -- the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Mortgage Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – five abstentions – there was no vote by one of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Mortgage Act. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other participating States in the Partnership for the Status of their Forces Partnership, with the Additional Protocol of the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other participating States in the Partnership for the Status of their Forces and the Next Additional Protocol of the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other participating States in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of their Forces, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157, no one, abstentioned – one, voted five of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
