ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24029	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24030	Thank you. Based on the provisions of the Military Act and the Defense Act, I'm asking the following questions, Mr. Secretary of Defense. They are set up by written means and I place them and verbally within the framework of the right under Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with a request for answers from the Ministry of Defence and members of the Army of Serbia based on subordination. The first question – did the Minister's decision on a life-threatening baby's life-threatening action in the area blocked by a dive on Friday 13 March 2015, a dive that prevented road traffic, have the decision to use helicopters and the participation of members of the Serbian Army been made orally or written? If the decision given to subordination is written, I ask that this decision be delivered to me on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The second question – did the order, which was issued by a competent person in Serbia on the basis of the defence minister's decision and on the basis of its authority, contain the basis for issuing orders to members of the unit and the type of funds to be used in the action? Please give me a copy of the order, if any, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for insight. If the order was oral, please provide me with written notice. The third question – is, and if so, during the course of the flight and the mission, the flight plan has been changed in relation to the original text of the command? If so, who made the decisions about change and why? The fourth question -- which is the competent person, a member of the Serbian Army or a person from the Ministry of Defence, on which basis and on the basis of which, at the airport "Nikola Tesla" provided information on the landing of a Serbian Army helicopter at the airport on Friday 13 March 2015, about 22.30 hours? The last question - who is the competent person, a member of the Serbian Army or a member of the Ministry of Defence, who, according to general knowledge, has certainly sent false news to the BETA news agency about the landing of helicopters at Nikola Tesla Airport and the successful completion of the rescue action? If members of the Serbian Army or members of the ministry have no knowledge of who sent this false news, if someone did so outside their jurisdiction and abuse of power from the Serbian Government or from any other ministry, why did the Law on the Serbian Army and the Law on Defence not respond to the Ministry of Defence which required these laws to provide accurate information to the public about their activities? The questions asked in no way interfere with the investigation of a tragic event, which was announced with the first results for yesterday, March 18, 2015, or a technical investigation announced for March 31st this year. All questions raised are in line with the Law on the National Assembly and the obligation of parliamentary control of the executive authority, and according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which requires written answers and insight into documents requested by the defence minister within 15 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24031	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24032	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I refer my first question to the Prime Minister today, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, State Auditor and Constitutional Court, as regards the height of the city of Novi Pazar and the financial disaster in which the city and all public enterprises are located. I request a notice of the exact height of the city of Novi Pazar, as well as an explanation of who, and on what grounds, has allowed the City Administration of Novi Pazar to be charged over the allowed percentage of the budget. I have alarming data that says the current New Market city debt is almost three years' budgets, which will be increased by a new debt of 300 million dinars these days. So much borrowing is not possible without government approval and so I ask who allowed it from the government? If it's nobody, I ask what this government is gonna do about it. I know those millions that the city is in charge of didn't go to unpaid salaries and contribute to the workers. In some public companies, workers have not received salaries for ten months, workers "Vodovoda", "Purity", "Urbanism Institute", while workers of the "Sports Centre" have not received their salary for 22 months, and the city is increasingly in debt. I also know that none of that money went to school heating, because winters and teachers and students were heating up on heaters that they brought from home gathered in circles and all in the 21st century in the "city of young people", as they call Novi Pazar. Infrastructure is in devasted condition, and the streets are in worse, because some are obviously used to having asphalt and asphalted streets win elections, so I think they're waiting for some of the next local elections. On the basis of all this, I ask the ruling majority where the money the ruling coalition in Novi Pazar is in debt for? I know that everything is ready and ready for the new city budget theft through the privatisation of the Novi Pazar regional television, and we will ask the D.A.'s Office for Organized Crime to do so. The city administration and all public enterprises are busy with party personnel despite a ban on public sector employment. The city administration of Novi Pazar since 2009 has not fulfilled its legal obligation to finance the Bosniak National Council. To work on the highest legal and legitimate representative body of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, the city has not singled out a single dinar. Since 2009 the coalition in Novi Pazar has been breaking the law, and the state has been silent and allowing it, because no one cares what is at the expense of Bosniaks. The town of Novi Pazar is the only local government in Sandzak, which has since 2009 been denying its citizens the Bosniak nationality of funds designed to protect and improve their individual and collective rights, which is the city with the highest number of Bosniaks living in. A protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia found that Novi Pazar broke the law because in the 2013 budget he did not provide funding for the Bosniak National Council and made a recommendation to the City Administration of Novi Pazar. The recommendation sent by the Citizens' Protector to the Mayor of Novi Pazar to this day is not respected. As the conclusion of everything I've said, I come to a question that I'm finishing and that's a question I'm referring to to the prime minister and all the ministers. I individually ask the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, I ask the Negotiating Team, and I ask you, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to which institution in Serbia can Bosniaks seek the protection and achievement of their Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights, which have been denied for years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24033	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24034	Thank you. I want to question the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is about the lease of state agricultural land in the municipality of Bela Crkva, the particular village of Dupaja and the following. The pastures and mornings, which were returned to local communities for use under the 1992 law, were returned again by a magical decision by the Ministry of Agriculture to the status of state land and are now being issued on auctions. That, of course, wouldn't be a problem if the law were respected and the Ministry of Agriculture was doing its job, but farming from a soloist in Germany is absolutely impossible without knowing what is happening specifically in the rest of Serbia and Vojvodina. In the village of Dupljaja cattlemen of the village, always since the village existed, some 370 acres of pasture have been used, and this is the only way to lead cattle to the harvest in that atar. In 2012, however, it happens that the Ministry of Agriculture rents a surface of 60 hectares to natural persons, and these natural persons intend to turn these pastures into permanent plantings, i.e. to change the purpose of this land even though it is originally assigned as a pasture. Is it possible that the Ministry of Agriculture has no knowledge of this particular problem and is it possible that only a village in Vojvodina and Serbia that has more natural birth than mortality, which only has growth in the population must suffer because of poor and untimely decisions by the Ministry of Agriculture? Farmers of the village of Dupijac addressed all the competent institutions and the Committee on Agriculture to solve this problem, and this problem does not exist only in this village but exists throughout Vojvodina wherever people deal with livestock, precisely because the local communities that were users of the morning and pasture were taken away and now the country bids on some kind of auction. Until recently, the land was leased only to receive subsidies from the state. Now that that's no longer possible, it's a question of what's going to happen to that land and whether it's just going to stay in the parlogus or if someone's really going to put it into service any farming business. This way I would like to ask the question of the Ministers of Agriculture and the Department of Agricultural Land, is it possible to address the problem of the village of Dupjaj as soon as possible? Will it continue with bad practice that, without any prior verification of how assigned land is used, auctions allow for the realisation of the land, even though the law absolutely makes it impossible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24035	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24036	Thank you. Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, esteemed Nišlija, my question today, I will begin with one of the texts I downloaded from the TV area plus that says – although the city municipality of Palilula has asked for such an initiative in part of its territory, which is flooded and threatened by the rinks to declare state of emergency, at its session of March 16th, the city's crisis headquarters Nisa rejected such an initiative with an explanation that there is no need and that everything is under control. What's this about? In the part of the town of Nis on the territory of the village of Donja Medirovo, New Village, the village of Bubanj, Gornja Medirovo, Pasi Poljana and Belotinac and on the surface of more than seven hundred hectares of farmland have surfaced, local sewers have been clogged, sewers have been poured out, and wastewaters are being poured into the rural areas of these villages, i.e. on these seven hundred acres of farmland by Morava. Because of the draining of the sewers, septic pits, as well as the spilling of wastewater, as I said, the processing surface is threatened with infection. The alarming fact is that the large area of vegetable cultures that is sown is underwater. Since January of the month until now, Palilu City Municipality has on several occasions, I have 12 letters, written to the city's leadership, i.e. The Niš City Assembly should take certain measures to protect, dry and return the area to its useful condition, especially the part of the land’s farmland, as well as residential facilities. The city of Nis absolutely didn't react, it has neither the capacity nor, as far as I can see, there's a will to solve such a thing, so the situation is getting worse. We now have the current condition that over 200 houses in these listed villages are underwater. What is my question, and I refer it to the Prime Minister, Minister Velimir Ilic and Mr. Maric, who runs the Emergency Department, what should happen to meet their legal obligation and help the citizens of Nis because it is evident that the city of Nis has no capacity, no possibility, and as much as I see political will to solve the problem in part of its territory? What is very alarming is the spilling of water from the city dump that goes directly to a processing area, where it is necessary to mention these, and I mean the Prime Minister, Minister and Mr. Maric, do everything in order to analyse the composition of the land, in order to remove any doubts already being carried out through the local population that there has been contamination of this agricultural land and that future agricultural cultures that are being placed on the markets of the town of Nis will lead to problems and possible illing of the citizens of Nis. I ask the Prime Minister to do everything in his power to give citizens timely protection, to preserve the property and to prevent further collapse of the housing facilities of these villages. What's interesting is that the city of Nis has declared an emergency. According to the Emergency Act, all legal and natural persons with companies in the endangered area would, according to Government Regulation No. Since 10 February 2015, 1101412/2015 has been able to seek grants, but the problem is that the deadline expired on 15 March 2015. It's another irresponsibility of the city's leadership. I ask the Prime Minister to make an effort and extend this deadline for the citizens of Nis and the environment because the citizens are obliged to suffer damage due to someone's irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24037	The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24038	Honored presidents, respected ministers with associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, for every nation or province, as well as the city, coat of arms, flag and anthem, represent signs of the greatest and deepest special respect. Therefore, when conceiving coat of arms and flags, the state and provinces should pay great attention to the problem because it represents one of the first-class national, historical and political issues because they question the identity of the state, the people and the province. The basic heraldic rule of conjecturing coat of arms or flags of states, provinces or cities is that they should reflect the historical, heraldic, when it comes to the flags and the lexiological tradition. When we apply that heraldic rule to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, then it has, at the very least, a heraldic tradition since 1848, and before, because since then it has its coat of arms, a cross with four glasses and a tricolour flag. The coat of arms, a four-eyed cross, will remain as its symbol until 2002, until Pajtic's DS and Cankova's LSV expelled him from use and thus made him an unprecedented heraldic, historical, national and political scandal, unseen in this area. For there to be no, ladies and gentlemen, confusion, the heraldic tradition in Vojvodina is also the tradition of the symbols of Backa, Banat and Srem, so when conceiving the coat of arms of Vojvodina should take special care of the problem, so that it really reflects the heraldic tradition and the historical province. According to the current Statute of Vojvodina, since May 2014, Vojvodina has two coat of arms - official and traditional. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina has not made a decision these days on the use of the province's symbols and traditional symbols because Pajtic's DS refused to vote for the decision, although she promised to do so. This is what Mr Pajtic and DS have done to other political, heraldic, national scandals, unseen in history, in these areas, and have been at the helm of those political forces that have been collapsing the political, cultural and economic progress of Vojvodina for many years. I believe and I am sure that the citizens of Vojvodina will quickly throw Pajtic and his Democratic Party into the political past, so that the AP Vojvodina and its citizens will step better in the future. I ask two questions to the Ministry of Local Self-Government – what will it do to allow Mr Pajtic and the Democratic Party to decide on the use of the symbols and traditional symbols of the AP Vojvodina and thus at least partially mitigate the unprecedented scandal? Secondly, will the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina go to the construction of a new coat of arms that will reflect the heraldic, national and historical tradition of the AP Vojvodina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24039	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward for a word, on this basis? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Suzanne Spasojevic, Dragan Sutanovac, Mirjana Dragas, Konstantin Arsenovic and Mladen Grujic. We continue our work and move on to a joint, principled and uniform search of the draft laws under points 5 and 6. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Aleksandar Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs; Vladimir Pesic and Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and Tatjana Prijic, Head of the Promotion Group, Protection of Persons with Disabilities at the Ministry. The entire time of the debate, I remind you, it's five hours for the parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Principle and Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Movement with the help of the Guided Dog and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Social Security. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Vulin, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24040	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Madam Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, before you and your attention are two laws that are very important to the Ministry, whose head I am at. The law by which we regulate the use of a guide dog, the Law of Movement with the help of a guide dog, is a law that is first passed in our country. So this is an innovation in our legislation and has been brought in with great help and continuous work with the Association, the Alliance of Blind and Weak, with relevant experts and, of course, representatives of all resolution ministries. The law has passed a public debate and the law for its essence has helped people with disabilities. Twelve thousand of our fellow citizens have major visual problems. Nine thousand of them are completely blind, and about 3,000 are weak-sighted. The regulation of the use of the guide dog, the regulation of its procurement, its training, training and the adoption of appropriate skills and for the person with disabilities, has not been properly regulated so far. This way, we regulate a very important matter, we go in line with our obligations that we have taken on the appropriate strategies, but also with respect for the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In this way, our legislation only improves, and it certainly helps people who are faced with such a difficult handicap. Of course, this law does not apply only to our citizens. He also refers to any stranger who could possibly come with a guide dog. Of course this is an important law. It certainly speaks of the need of this country to regulate these issues in the best way and talks about our government's commitment to constantly improving the situation of people with disabilities and taking special care of them. The second law before you, confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on social security, is also very important. For the last time with the Republic of France, we had this kind of agreement, or law, back in 1950, so from the time of the SFRY. This is a way to introduce appropriate new legal assets into our relations. This is a way to properly regulate the same, to equalise the position of citizens of the Republic of France and the Republic of Serbia, to ensure that the appropriate incomes, the corresponding rights that are exercised in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of France, are properly regulated and regulated, that no right can be lost, neither when it comes to pensions, nor when it comes to adequate social protection, injury and all that can happen to any of our citizens, whether they are located in the territory of our country or in the territory of France. This is a common international agreement but it speaks of the government of the Republic of Serbia and how it takes care of its international obligations and, of course, its and foreign citizens who can exercise any right to our or the territory of the country with which the agreement is signed. I hope we're doing good, we're doing good, we're doing good. I'm sure we all understand the importance of these laws and understand that they are far from daily politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24041	Thank you. Is there any word from the committees in charge? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Master of State Đorđe Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24042	Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen National MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are present today two draft laws, first of all a bill on movement with the help of a guide dog and a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on social security. Certainly, in the day of voting, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the bills mentioned, and my presentation will focus on the bill on moving with the help of the guide dog. Certainly, Unique Serbia supports this bill because its adoption allows for the right to free movement of a person with a guide dog, which must be regulated by law on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia and, on the other hand, brought into line with such laws that are particularly within the EU in other countries. You mentioned that there were a number of discussions, public debates in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, with me in Kragujevac. A new set of problems that may need to be solved and most of the law is successfully solved, but I say, participation was taken by representatives of the organisations themselves with disabilities, Animal Care and Protection Associations, public authorities, media and certainly other representatives. What I would like to take out of all the problems that have been brought out here, I will bring out only one, to say the right to use, that is to enter and stay with the dog guide to facilities in the field of hospitality. This is the experience we had in the previous period, because let me say the members of some associations that came to Serbia couldn't feed, because they couldn't get in with the dog in the catering facilities. Of course, I would like to commend myself with this law, and it solves where other objects are specifically indicated that they are also catering facilities. The general assessment of all these public debates is that this law and other types support it to a full extent, that a lot has already been done, but that there is still much to be done in terms of the achievement of health, education, social and other rights. On the other hand, also speaking of this law, it should be said that it is expected not to be a great response as to the number of guide dogs for a number of reasons. First, the procurement and training of these dogs involves a long-term process that can last for more than a year. So, just training, I think it takes a little more than a year. Secondly, not all persons with disabilities are interested in this type of service, especially when it is necessary to meet appropriate conditions, accommodation, nutrition, and other things to own a dog. Also, if it is not adequate, such a dog, this law provides that it can be taken away, as far as it is concerned. What is the practice of surrounding countries? I think this law, as far as Croatia and Montenegro are concerned, was passed in 2008. Also in some European countries, this practice is much longer and it is common for guide dogs to be decided on average between 6% and 10% of blind people. Given that this practice has never existed before, it is expected that this number will be even smaller. As for some European practices and standards for people with disabilities from 2010 to 2020, Europe has no barriers. As a primary goal, empowering people with disabilities to enjoy all rights in full scope enables society to participate by removing different barriers. So, firstly, the equality of employment, education and training, social protection, health and the implementation of activities that contribute to equalising opportunities. Otherwise, there are about 800,000 people with disabilities in Serbia today, of which you said earlier, there are about 12,000 people who are under-sighted. This is the World Health Organization's data, because there is no database in Serbia on blind and impaired visions. Given that it's about 14%, so they can only move on their own, while others are addicted to someone's help. Now, I'd like to point out to the ministers some things we might be able to solve in the next period. First of all, I think they would make a big step forward by adopting the Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities to obtain accurate data on the number and structure of these people. Now, the other thing that matters here. I want to point out one important problem for blind and weak-sighted people in Serbia is that there are no instructors for the free and independent movement of so-called. Peripathologists. Perhaps some solution, Minister, would be that at the Faculty of Rehabilitation and Education, which has been in existence for three decades, in the coming period we might be training this piece of work that would deal with this problem. Well, I'm just saying that I'm giving an example of what maybe we should do. Also, one big problem is that the disability school is only in Belgrade and the problem is that people from the inside have to come with their children, let's say, to teach that school here. Perhaps we should consider establishing such schools in other cities, not just Belgrade, in the coming period. In the end, I want to say that as much as 90% of the information from its surroundings is collected by man, so I am sure that, right here, all of us, and even the citizens of Serbia, do not find it difficult to understand why blinding is such a difficult handicap. Finally, I would like to say that the JS parliamentary group, in the voting day, will support both the draft law I spoke about and the draft law on the signing of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France in the area of social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24043	Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24044	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the SDS are in a political sense an important interest in improving the lives and status of all marginalised groups. First of all, the person with the disability that we must keep in mind, has in Serbia as many as there are in other countries on average, which is about 700 thousand. The minister cited a precise figure of how many weak and completely blind people are in Serbia, and unfortunately, I have to repeat once again, it is a huge marginal group because in the difficult economic conditions in which Europe and Serbia are today and where the majority of the population and the pro-receipt conditions of life feel somewhat marginalised, as society may be less sensitive to the needs of those who need our compassion most. How do people who can't see or see easily can we all determine? It's just enough to cover our eyes for a few minutes and figure out what life would be like if we were left to the will of others, those who live next to us. If we're lucky enough to have someone over and over again to make our lives better by putting up with a huge sacrifice in that sense. So this law, however much it seems to be less important to some than some other capital laws, we support with all our heart and hope that in practice it will be able to produce at least partially the effects that are expected of it by people who are weak-sighted or not seen at all. So, by adopting this law, Serbia joins a large number of European countries but also other countries in an environment that have adopted such laws for many years. It is specific and only determines the right of persons with disabilities to move with the help of a guide dog and a way of exercising that right, given that other laws regulate social protection of persons with disabilities and other issues concerning them. This law also lays down the right to move with the help of a guide dog in practice in every public facility on every surface and other space, subject to the conditions prescribed by the law itself. The law is, it's my impression, very precise, short, clear, and I don't think anyone in this room will have any particular grudges about amendments or any other grudges. The prescribed conditions are the wearing of the appropriate markings, the documents needed after the training of those dogs has been completed. What is very important to stress is that we in Serbia do not have this kind of precision and sensitization and culture so far to find ourselves at the service of someone other than one minority, which is what witness daily life, and especially great animosity we have at a large percentage to animals. Or they're people, our fellow citizens who show even a monstrous once-in-a-lifetime act towards animals in the minority, but they're very and obviously visible. So, you have a witness situation for people who have their guide dogs, although it's not legally regulated, but people have managed, so they've trained at least partially and these dogs are helping them, that their neighbor, specifically, from Leskovec, is allowed to use that dog in the whole city, but the neighbor poisoned one of those dogs of that citizen who could do nothing accordingly. Thus, this type of relationship with animals also suggests that there is nothing better to treat people who need the help of these animals. In that sense, I think it is necessary to work, regardless of the adoption of this law, first of all to open and sensitise citizens, to have a sense of the needs of the blind and the weak, to be tolerant of them, to have our city plans respect the needs of these people. It's not just enough to have a dog, it's necessary to have certain surfaces that this dog, or that weak-sighted or blind man, can move. It's not an idea, nor is it possible for a dog to lead a man. A man has to lead a dog. Therefore, we need, in addition, training centres for dogs themselves, we also need to train people who are blind, and how to use these dogs and it is simply a shocking fact that training, if true, costs about 25,000 euros to one dog with all the permits and school. Interested in this topic, I followed the White Stick programmes and they recently received a 11,000-euro donation and waited until the end of the year if possible, expensive, for just one guide dog. The real question is whether it is possible for all of this to be expensive and whether as a state we can organize and d and simply make that kind of possibility really more accessible. Let me tell you, for 25,000 euros today, and people don't have to buy cars, and if we keep in mind that blind and weak are one of the poorest groups in our society, because they can't make money, and they're always dependent on others, how much who gives them, how much state, through social giving, how many families they have, they belong to the poorest Corps of this society, and many of them are capable of, if they were allowed to move on their own and to study on the basis of that trained trade or some schools and to be able to support themselves. I see this law as just one step towards the awareness of this society which is the needs of these people, it is necessary, but it is an insufficient condition for their life to be made tolerable, and I believe that along with all other laws, and I see that the Ministry is essential, and not only elementally, sensitised for problems not only of these types of disabled people, but also of all others and thank you for that. So, in a body of tihizaxones that are in the process, and some are being prepared, the life of blind and weak-sighted people will be more bearable. Once again, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24045	The word is Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24046	Each ministry takes great care, not only of the Ministry, of the whole society, of the position of persons with disabilities. Accordingly, we will soon come to this high house with the Sign Language Act, which is also very important. It's already about passing laws on associations of persons with disabilities that specifically regulate this matter, which is very important to the associations themselves, but also to persons with disabilities. The ministry has also been conducting a very broad action since last year to form a register of people with disabilities, of course through co-operation with relevant associations. You are absolutely right to draw attention to the difficult position of disabled people, especially when it comes to employment. But to take care of it, take care of it. The National Employment Service records currently contain around 21,000 people with disabilities. About 7,000 of them are women. Last year, according to our National Employment Service statistics, 4.123 people with disabilities were employed, which is a good result, especially as soon as the law was passed and the strict implementation of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities amounted to 200 to 250 persons with disabilities per year, and now for a year 4.123 persons, and how it is taken into account. This year, we have allocated 500 million dinars from the National Employment Service budget fund to encourage employment of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24047	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24048	Thank you. Honorable presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Social Democratic Party-Together Group for Serbia-Green Serbia, believes that the adoption of this law is very important for Serbia, that Serbia lacked and one such law was missing, and certainly we should welcome the possibility of free movement for blind and weak-sighted persons, who move with the help of the guide dogs, but to say that we have certain suggestions that we think this law might be better for the shade. He certainly, I can't say it's bad law, the law is good, he introduces a lot of newspapers and represents a step in this area. But let's say that the adoption of this law, that it should now be potential to comply with some other laws and that these laws are mutually harmonised, also happens that in other areas of law-making we have non-compliant areas, means that we are also leading to some other spheres of life accounts, i.e. that we now integrate this law into some other laws and actually fix those other laws. We believe that this law is acceptable and that, with these less suggestions that we can discuss, it can be supported in the voting day. Article 4 states that a person moving with the help of a guide dog has the right to use all means of transport in public transport, but in our opinion this provision should stand in all other laws and sublaws governing public transport. So now we're not talking about this law, we're talking about helping us use and implement this law, by introducing it into some other laws and really bringing it to this group of people we're talking about, that means, blind and weak-sighted people with dogs guides, we're going to enable full integration into society, which is what this law stands for. But we have some shortcomings in the other laws. I hope the minister will also invest his authority to correct the other laws and that the integration of this law would actually make full sense. It will be necessary to change decisions on public line traffic that are within the jurisdiction of local self-government. Only the City of Belgrade has changed and allowed persons escorted by a guide dog to the City Transport Company vehicles. Perhaps it can be one of the initiatives that we can all set together, the National Assembly together with the Ministry and help local self-government understand this problem and introduce a solution to their local decisions and some regulations and other sublaws. It will also be necessary to amend restrictive decisions on the holding of domestic animals and pets in the jurisdiction of local self-government again. Article 54. The Animal Welfare Act gives jurisdiction to local self-government to determine the place and way of performing pets. Understandably, if you limit places and some local regulation, limit places and ways of bringing pets into question the implementation of this law and perhaps make it difficult for people with disabilities in Serbia to live this complicated life. So this article 54 says that the authorities of the local self-government unit are obliged to develop and implement control and reduction programmes for abandoned dogs and cats, according to the specificities of their local environment. Local self-government units prescribe a place and way of performing pets, especially dogs and cats on public surfaces. We have a big problem here right now. People, people with disabilities, but undersighted and blind people from Novi Sad who have dogs guides called us during the preparation of the debate on this law and pointed to a potentially big problem, that abandoned dogs on the streets can be aggressive to guide dogs and again this is to say a request for your help. This is not in the department's jurisdiction, but in the jurisdiction of local self-government, and in fact, these carefree dogs on the street are very often very aggressive to guide dogs. Unfortunately, without local self-government, this problem cannot be solved, and they have been ten years old to solve these problems, and today we start again in an old-fashioned way, or in some way we overcome these problems by opening large asylums without further solving these problems. If they were properly taken care of and treated abandoned dogs, probably through sterilization, they would no longer be aggressive on the street and would not endanger the safety of blind and undersighted persons who had a guide dog. We think it would be good to point out that the Department of Veterinary Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Protection of the Environment since the adoption of the Animal Welfare Act in June 2009, did not adopt rules regarding various animals, or did not comply with Articles 10 and 11. Animal welfare laws. Unfortunately, as a state, we don't have an animal training rule, we don't have an animal training rule, we still don't have an animal training register, and so this law applies only, or it's to say that it applies only to dogs of guides that are bought abroad. In other words, the training of dogs and training of dogs is not done in a legitimate way, nor are there legal frameworks for this. The nearest guide dog training centre is located in Zagreb, and in Belgrade there is only the Club of Trainers and the official dog guide, a police officer on Bežianski Kosa, who unfortunately cannot deal with the training of guide dogs. It would be good if, given that we are passing a quality law and a law that promotes a particular area to try to exert additional pressure, we as MPs and you as an interested ministry, that as soon as possible, the more quality of the rest of the ministries, that local self-government finally begin to deal with the problems that are in their jurisdiction and perhaps in some way to help local self-government solve these problems as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, we go through years, we don't solve these problems, and it's just a bunch of problems, and we come into situations to pass laws for the sake of laws. I am not just talking about this law, or maybe because it requires the EU, and we are not passing laws because they have to live in reality, because they have to be applied and because the laws are being passed to improve the real life of citizens. This law can also be said to be very short and that it is very clear and it is a good feature of this law. What's the paper in the explanation and in the application of this law is, I think, a practice that has not been a practice so far to state everything from a public debate. The suggestions accepted in the public debate, with reasons why they were accepted, are listed suggestions that were not accepted, with reasons why the ministry saw no need to accept this. If all the laws in the National Assembly were this reasoned, this would indeed be a quality step in our preparation for laws if they were in regular procedure and would lead to a more quality debate, perhaps better amendments and a faster adoption of certain laws. What makes us from the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia makes it more necessary to promote this law, that people who do not belong to the groups that we are talking about and why we are adopting this law understand the importance of this law, that those who hold the catering facilities, that those who keep the shops, let me say, we all have our own problems, that people in the bus or some other object do not react inappropriately and that perhaps by campaigning through the media and promotion of this law we can actually convince all other people that this law improves the quality of life, that they integrate one group of people into life and that it is very important for Serbia, that persons who are weak and blind can freely move and Belgrade, but that they can move freely to all other cities and have a really full sense of belonging to this society. It is important that the law is promoted, I think because Serbia cares, the state cares about all people with disabilities. We also have a few amendments in the day on amendments we will discuss and perhaps make some arguments that will improve the understanding of these amendments, perhaps the ministry will accept some of it. That's good, that's what one of the previous colleagues said nicely, which is where the catering facilities are properly defined. It remains unclear, for example. in Article 5, given that it is a very broad formulation, whether it also involves homes for the accommodation of students and students, since one of the predecessors said there was a problem with schooling only in Belgrade. We may miss schools all over Serbia so that we can integrate all people who are weak-sighted and blind again into society. It is important that students, high school students have access to student homes and student accommodations. Are megamarkets, malls, too? Please, that's why we're talking about promoting the law in public. In Serbia, most often what is meant does not work. We need to convince all the people who deal with these actions that this is important, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if we can't convince them, then we're going to force them to respect the law and that all persons with disabilities or all persons with vision and blind people have the legal right to access to all these objects. It is understandable for health care facilities why it stands and we agree with it. Once again to get back to this problem, when people look weak and blind in the presence of a guide dog go out into the street, it can be uncertain for their guide dog, it can be insecure for that person, it may also cause some broader implications. We need local self-governments to ask them again to solve problems and that, as the decentralisation of which local self-government is rightly talked about is not only about rights, but also about obligations. I see here somewhere the ministry's obligation or the role of the ministry that when we cannot convince someone that something is useful, there are legal assumptions, that we must force it, because the laws in Serbia are passed in order to be respected, not because the EU expects us to or is simply modern in the EU accession process. We have to work harder in some segments of implementation and, let's say, open up two major areas. These are the accessibility and welfare of animals. Now, in particular, it may not be the biggest problem of this law because it speaks of blind and weak-sighted people with guide dogs, but accessibility to objects, primarily public buildings, persons with disabilities, that the animal welfare law is not only when extreme situations occur, it is not only when animal protection associations are rebelled because of the lack of respect for animal rights or the right to animal welfare. Again, I say that the state, ministries, public institutions, parliament, local self-governments are a model of behaviour and when we talk about accessibility, that all objects are accessible, that the streets of Belgrade, as well as the streets of Serbia, the cities of Serbia and municipalities in Serbia are accessible and that people with disabilities can feel that they are part of this society, not only for major pre-election campaigns, but really to work on raising awareness about the importance of solving these problems and thus integrate this society, that Serbia becomes a better place to live. When we talk about amendments or maybe at the end of the debate, we'll say something else about this, but in any case, in the debate on amendments, we'll exchange some other arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24049	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24050	I thank you for understanding this law. I'd like to respond to some of the views you've made. The law stipulates that we have a six-month period after the law is passed to adapt the other laws, but also to adapt the practice, which may be more important. We will certainly address all local self-governments and the competent ministry to make sure that local self-government respects their obligation, adopt appropriate regulations, change appropriate measures. In particular, the measure you said in Belgrade applies to pets, and we ask that it be extended to the guide dog. The guide dog is not a pet, his role is more than clear. As for dormitories, institutions of the student standard, all educational institutions are obliged to provide the possibility that a person with a dog guide most normally uses the appropriate institution and this applies to absolutely all public and private facilities in this country. It means that if one day we had the honor of having a fellow MP who had a guide dog, the guide dog would be here. He could be in this room today, and he could be helping his owner. So, if you can in the Assembly, you can go to any other institution, of course, and the mega-market. The only exception is the appropriate health institutions. We need to bring a special regulation here in collaboration with the Minister of Health, since for more than clear reasons, they decide where it is possible for the animal to appear and where it is not possible. It's something that will be determined by the Ministry of Health and we'll just participate in it. All other institutions, every restaurant, must be open and accessible to persons using a guide dog.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24051	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24052	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, respected ministry associates, fellow MPs, are today two laws on the agenda in the field of social policy – the Law on Movement with the help of guide dogs and the Agreement between Serbia and France on Social Security. When it comes to the Law of Movement with the help of the guide dogs, we are actually talking about a whole new law that has been waiting for almost a decade. In our society there are a number of significant problems and obstacles with which people with disabilities and figuratively and essentially trip. Of course, not only those but also members of their families, neighbors, friends, employers, and citizens themselves. For years Serbia has been gradually solving these social problems and systematically edits the life and education and business environment for this sensitive social category. Of course, everything in line with the set objectives of the National Strategy for improving the position of persons with disabilities. The category of legislation is intended for its own position in such a situation as to require increased family attention and increased social support. The Republic of Serbia, Minister, has mentioned this, is a signator of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which obliges states to implement defined basic principles of security and improve the full achievement of human rights and fundamental freedoms for persons with disabilities, without discrimination from any kind of disability. The Convention obliges signatories to take all appropriate measures to ensure that persons with disabilities in terms of ensuring conditions for the equal use of physical space provide effective measures to provide personal mobility to persons with the highest possible degree of independence. One way to achieve this goal is to move with the help of a guide dog. The Law on movement with the help of a guide dog is another regulation in a series of already passed, providing for a special type of protection, primarily blind and impaired persons, as well as persons using wheelchairs and other persons who need this kind of help. It is this law that provides for the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed basic human rights and specifically concerns the prohibition of discrimination and the introduction of special measures, in order to achieve full equality of persons with disabilities with other citizens, as well as the development of the right to dignity and the free development of a person. This law therefore contributes to the creation of conditions for full and effective participation and inclusion in society, respecting differences and accepting persons with disabilities as equal and equal. When it comes to the provisions of the law itself, I would first of all like to say that moving with the help of a guide dog is primarily meant for blind and weak-sighted persons who, based on the data of the Alliance of Blind Serbs, who gathers the largest number of local associations, have about 12,000, of which 9,000 are blind and about 3,000 weak-sighted. This regulation, as I said, can apply to other persons with disabilities, in accordance with their capabilities and need to use such services, as well as to other persons who use dogs for therapeutic or rehabilitation purposes, which is a completely new service or new activity. The person moving with the help of the guide dog has the right to use all public means of transport, has the right to free access and movement in buildings and on areas of public purpose in his work space, as well as in any other space. When it comes to dogs being used to support movement or therapeutic, rehabilitation or other needs, persons with disabilities, it should be pointed out that they are dogs that have passed special training. The training of these dogs, and you yourself, Minister, pointed out, is extremely expensive and takes an extremely long time. The requirements and specific conditions relating to training polygons, as well as the expertise of instructors performing the training tasks of these dogs. The training of these dogs aims to solve situations independently or overcome some obstacles, finds the safest solution in a situation, thus ensuring the confidence of the person to follow. Training of the person moving with the help of the guide dog, as well as the dog itself, organizes and conducts a public recognition of the organizer of adult education activities. The law also stipulates that a person who moves with the help of a guide dog and a guide dog instructor possess an appropriate correction on the basis of which the right to move with the help of a dog is exercised. This provision is also extremely important for our citizens, for public sector workers. All dogs will be marked with adequate equipment and thus clearly avoid any possible misunderstandings, especially in public institutions and in public transport. What are the problems ahead of us after the law is passed? There are questions that are still being asked today. First of all, the lack of dogs. The procurement and training of these dogs means a long-term process that can last for more than a year. Like I said, training itself takes about a year, and then socializing the dog in the family. Also, not all persons with disabilities are interested in this type of service, because the possession of this dog requires that certain conditions be met in terms of nutrition, housing and care of the dog itself. Let the statistics say that only 6-10% of people want to use a service like this. Also, the question of the lack of polygons for the training is raised. There are initiatives to form a guide dog training centre. Also, public information means mentioning the formation of a foundation aimed at obtaining dogs themselves. Anything that awaits us regarding further effective application of the law requires the support of the state, above all the restoring ministry, but I will look to my colleague, and the representative of the local self-government. This law will certainly also have an impact on entities engaged in dog breeding and training, as these entities will be able to expand their activities on this type of training, which in perspective can contribute to improving their position on the market. By enabling the training of dogs by domestic instructors, it is also possible to establish new forms of organization of guide dogs themselves, and thus to employ a number of people as instructors. Regardless of the questions this law raises, this is another step in equating opportunities and enabling the equality of all members of our society. Not a small effect of this law is breaking prejudices about people with disabilities, developing a campaign that implies and understanding the general public about the existence and needs of people with disabilities. The increase in the involvement of persons with disabilities in the community and the creation of the necessary preconditions is imperative for a socially responsible state, and Serbia confirms by adopting this law that it deals with this aspect of development. When it comes to this law, I will stop, and a little bit more about this law and the project being prepared, when it comes to training and helping people with impaired vision, my colleague Gordana Topic, who comes from Pančev where there is the largest home of the blind in the space of the former SFRY and who is preparing a project related to dog training. When it comes to the second law on the agenda, which is the law confirming the agreement between Serbia and France on social security, I can say that this is one of the most comprehensive social agreements our country has signed and represents the continuity of bilateral relations between our two countries in the area of social security. I will remind you that even at the time of the FNRJ, 1950, the General Convention on Social Security was signed between the FNRJ and the Republic of France. This convention is still in force in the Republic of Serbia, and today we are replacing the Convention with this agreement, because Serbia has become an independent state in the meantime. This Agreement is a comprehensive international document regulating areas of pension and disability insurance, health insurance and health care, labour injuries and occupational diseases, motherhood and child benefits, and with regard to the citizens of this State of signatories who are employed in the territory of another Signatory State. The rights to be exercised under this Agreement shall, in accordance with the legal systems of the Member States, rely on the fund of rights that citizens have in their home countries. I particularly point out that as significant rights governed by this Agreement, the exercise of the right to additional children of those persons who carry out certain activities, i.e. work in accordance with the legal regulations of one of the Contracting Parties, insurance for the case of age, disability and overlived family members, labour injuries and occupational illnesses, accidents on the way to work, worsening of occupational illness and social benefits for the event of death. More about this agreement will be discussed later by my colleague Nenad Milosavljevic, and I would like to point out that three days ago in the procedure of the National Assembly another law concerning persons with disabilities is the Sign Language Act. I believe that in the next period we will have the opportunity to discuss this law, since it is the same law that we have been waiting for for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24053	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there is today a law in the social law Corps, which represents another step in caring for disabled persons, about persons who require special social support. It's the Dog Guide Act. It will concern a very small number of people, a very small number of people who want that kind of support in their movement. The colleague spoke about this earlier, but as a responsible society, it requires us to resolve this precisely because we are introducing a legal new category of movement of disabled persons in a society that is not only about them, but also about everyone else in the society that participates in this interaction. When we talk about the person moving with the help of the guide dog, then we need to know that it will move in public places, in means of public transport, and that includes frustration and experience of all those persons who will be there. So we have to have legally predictable situations and how to solve them. It's not enough to just prescribe by law what the owner of the facility or the owner of the means of transport must apply and allow. There'll be a lot of moments we're not ready for as a society. That's not the problem with this law. This is the problem because society has long not been ready for this kind of movement of disabled persons. Every day we mature, repair and install new human rights into our lives and promote existing human rights. This is the law I see will have to be completed, but it's very good that it exists. The step to pass this law shows that we will soon have this problem or that social support, legally completely and well solved exactly as a modern society does. First of all, we have to talk here about taking into account the natural predispositions of dogs that we so far recognized in ordinary life either as pets or dogs used in hunting or dogs used in the military, in the police. We know that advanced dog predispositions are used primarily in rescue efforts and that they are irreplaceable. So this is another of those qualities that we build into our social support, in the social support of disabled people for their easier movement. Everything in this law has already been said, we have touched everything in previous discussions. The problem is the lack or insufficient institutionalised training of these dogs, the procurement of dogs. It is likely that some other ministries, first of all the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of Veteran for the Care of Dogs, will be involved in the care of these dogs because they must be adequately cared for in order to be able to perform their duties, but I say there will really be some more things in the law to do because of this movement on public surfaces and because of interaction with other members of society. No matter how much these people move, how much they need that support, if they get into public transport, you can't expect all passengers to be ready to have that contact. So, you need to a little bit of depreciation through the media first of all society to really be prepared for that kind of encounter. What I would add is that you need to work on this law, as far as it's possible, is that you have to worry about what happens when a dog does his time, retires, who takes it? Or if the one to whom the dog was assigned, whom he led, let's say, dies, who takes care of that dog further? That would be important to resolve in law, but I'm saying it's really good to finally have this law. It is important that this law is in life, and life itself will bring the necessary corrections and make it useful for all of us. That is why in the voting day we will certainly support this law, support the good amendments that can fix it, but I think that soon we will all make it much better in this House together and I think that we have done this which is a great step ahead of us, great help and social support for people with disabilities who want to move more easily in society this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24055	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24056	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we are facing a very important bill that has been trying to correct and resolve discrimination against people with disabilities, which has existed in Serbia back decades. The law that will allow blind and weak-sighted persons to use a guide dog is something good. Generally speaking of this idea, on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, I can say that this is a good idea, a good proposal that we are discussing today, a law that needs to be fixed a little bit more, as colleagues have said in this discussion. What I'm trying to say is that it's good to start solving problems and this is one start to solve problems that people with disabilities have, especially people who are weak-sighted or blind. It's not the only problem that will solve the guide dogs. There is also a problem when voting in the elections, when blind people cannot exercise their right to vote, so someone else has to sign or vote for them. So there's no ballot in Bray's letter. There's also no possibility that the blind people in the bank, the mail, they're signing their check anywhere, and I think we should talk about it. On behalf of our group and on my personal behalf, I can make a proposal to create a national registry of blind and impaired persons and, as doctors have their serial number and seal, to have those stamps or numbers, so that they can have that signature or seal and have the authority of the state. Mr Minister, I want to tell you that certain organisations of the blind and weak have made some comments, some have even written a letter to you, and I will make some suggestions that have been given in front of the Alliance of Blind and Failing Serbia's "White Stick" which includes and which consists of a centre for the independent movement and training of the guide dogs of Serbia, the Association of Blind and Low-sighted Serbia's "White Stick" region of Belgrade, the Association of Blind and scrutinised Serbia's "White Stick" region of Southeast Serbia and the Moravsko-Ibarski region, which has provided you with some of their remarks on the draft law. I was asked on behalf of their organization to give you a few suggestions that were, they assume that maybe even that letter didn't come to you, but that there's a goodwill that probably exists on your side. Even a few months ago, we had opportunities where people with disabilities made the rally, and that law was then announced, which is basically good. What the White Stick Association makes as a small remark is that this text of the draft law does not respect international European standards relating to guide dogs and assistant dogs, as well as mobility infrastructures "European gay dogs mobility standards" and "gay mobilise instructions competitions". It is necessary for the people in this association to adequately regulate the support services of the guide dog, as well as the assistant dog, taking into account the international and European standards of providing these services to disabled persons. In this sense, it is necessary to distinguish the concepts of a guide dog that traditionally works with blind and impaired persons from other types of dogs that provide support and assistance to people with disabilities, both deaf and deaf persons, persons with physical disability, including persons, wheelchair users, then persons with mental and intellectual disability, people with autism, people with diabetes, chronic epilepsy, etc. In this memo, which has been sent to you is a necessary giving, there is not a wide enough set round of users of new services to prevent an unequal position and treatment of persons with these difficulties. It is also necessary by law to define clearly and reasonedly, in sublegal acts, it is certainly possible, several important issues. First of all, the process of needs, the conditions for conducting guide and assistant dog training, as well as training of dog users and the necessary preparation for the process. It is necessary to define, by law and clearly, the means from which it is planned to develop the support services of guide dogs and assistant dogs and for which it is precisely intended to be used, as well as to reserve a minimum of funds needed for the development of this service in percentage terms in relation to the budgetary resources intended for the programme in the area of improving the situation of persons with disabilities and their inclusion on an equal basis. It is necessary to align the text of the laws with the standards and definitions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in the following text, which has been forwarded to you, the Convention. Making the text of such a law that regulates a specific and legal order of the new area requires inclusion in the process of making international experts, means people who, the Alliance of Blind and scrutinised from the region, have made a good one communication with the Alliance of Blind Croatians, Slovenia that are already members of the European Union for Guided Dogs and the Alliance "asystens dogs jurop". These are some of the suggestions and remarks that have been sent to you, I think that even some of us can, since the time has expired for the amendments, given that they appeared a day and a half ago, means less than 48 hours, the time for amendments has expired, but there is a possibility that as long as you accept in this debate that perhaps both the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs may have tabled some amendment to what is now read. For example, in Article 3 of this law, it is said that the training of the eight-week guide dogs would be implemented for about 12 months of socialization. That's what families who train and there are programs for, so after the attitude -- the instructor needs to introduce the concept of socialist, because those people have to walk the dog, take them to different places and things like that, work with them, and there are also labels and different signs of dogs in training. For example, I saw a film showing a socialist family from London who had these problems that we suggest that maybe even in that amendment, the amendment be put in. The socialist must be placed that the person performing the socialization is part of the training with the supervision of dog instructors during the period of socialization of the dog from two to 16 months. Article 5 says the minister responsible for health affairs, the minister responsible for improving the position of disabled persons, will regulate the right use of facilities in public use. The people in this association think they're asking whether the minister of traffic will have to be involved next to the Minister of Health and some other ministers to mark and who sets up license plates, or a ban on entering other dogs? When a blind person walks into college, who's going to give permission to go to that college, where does a blind person go to school? In Article 8, also from the White Stick association, they made some suggestions that the socialist, as the instructor moves with the uniform only after 16 months. He says – he must be introduced and added to the words – always a socialist because the instructor leaves with the uniform only after 16 months, and who until then learns and socializes the dog, socialization means where to make an emergency, how he will have four meals, how to get to that meal, since they have informed me that there is a dog trainer that he must not take a meal without the whistle of the person who guards him, i.e. that he's helping with all of this. The White Stick Association also stated that maybe Article 3 where a dog guide has passed a special procedure in accordance with the law. Article 10 states that training of persons moving with the help of dog guides organizes and conducts a public recognition of the organizer of adult education activities in accordance with the law based on specific programmes. So there's a couple of things they've had objections and suggestions on and they're not big enough to change the meaning of the law itself. The law is good, and whenever you say that something can help and support blind and weak-sighted people, there is no one who will say the opposite. There is no person who will say it is not good, but let's try to make a bill that will not unite the MPs. We're here to assume that we're all voting for this law because this is one of the many laws that I or someone wasn't for were adopted, and then they were done. This is a law regarding politicians not much of a problem, but we have some suggestions from the association that brings together just the people who need this law most. If they have some suggestions, I don't think it's a bad idea to adopt these suggestions and possibly adopt some amendments to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. On behalf of the DS parliamentary group, I can say that this is a one-way shift towards a more humane Serbia, one way to reduce discrimination against people with disabilities. I want to live in Serbia and I want to live in Serbia where no one will be discriminated against, especially those with disabilities who have had problems or with illness or with some accident that has brought them into such a difficult position that they have to be in a wheelchair and a message from this place is that it is not a shame to be in a wheelchair, that we have to break down some of our taboos, not only to break down architectural barriers that make it impossible for one normal and decent life of our fellow citizens who are in a wheelchair or who are blind, but to bring down all of us together some barriers that are in the minds of Serbian citizens. It's something that's most important to me, and I don't see any politician who would be against it. So that each of us should set a good example of these barriers in people's heads to collapse, to say that it's not terrible to be sick, that it's no shame that if a child goes to elementary school and has speech or hearing disorders or is in a wheelchair, not to be included in a group, that children marginalize it, that children should accept it, but that's for both parents and the educational system of Serbia, and what with regard to the concrete bill today I as a doctor can tell you that this is a major shift towards a more decent Serbia where we adopt all these European standards and norms to make life easier for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24057	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24058	I want to thank the MPs' club SPS, New Serbia and DS for understanding this law and understanding what we are trying to do. But just to correct some misunderstandings. This isn't dog law. This is the dog's movement law. The welfare of the dog, taking care of him, all that it takes from feeding to conditionally said retirement, that's what they do, the practice is in the environment, is that it's done by volunteer families who apply for it and they take care of the dog when he loses his job. It's all something that's regulated by other laws or regulated by the relevant rules that we're going to make within six months of this law being passed. The purpose of this law is to ensure that a blind person can, as far as possible, live perfectly normally and to ensure that he has maximum access to all public and private facilities in this country. That's what we focus on in this law, and the dog himself regulates the Animal Wellbeing Act and the rules I've already talked about. As for the objections of the association and the association you speak of, it took part in a public debate. He made his proposals. We have answered some of these proposals in detail and in the very reasoning of the law, or amendments that we have not accepted or accepted. So we have very precise and very studioyly responded to each request. The law can always be corrected, but to be exact, we've already heard these suggestions and we've already spoken of them at the very end of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24059	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24060	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected guests and dear colleagues, today we have two important laws, one of which is very affirmative and refers to persons with disabilities. If this wasn't one of the laws that we're adopting, so to speak, for the sake of order, but for one comprehensive law, it tells us that the law entered the assembly debate in the regular procedure, that as a Committee on Work on this Law we talked about a month ago, so that there was plenty of time and space for all objections and suggestions to improve this law. I think that today there is a comprehensive law which primarily refers to the possibility of the movement of persons with disabilities, in particular persons with low-sighted and blindness and are clearly and precisely defined and categories of persons who can use dogs for these purposes, and about the welfare of animals, as the minister said, some other laws, the Animal Welfare Act and the Veteran Law are handled. We have heard from some colleagues that there are various obstacles and in access to certain institutions, which is regulated by the Law on Planning and Construction, and this law also has a basis in the Social Protection Act. Therefore, today, we have a comprehensive law that has taken care of, not only people with disabilities, but also persons who will inevitably be involved, and these are all those in public transport and who will be able to meet the weak, blind, or the person in the wheelchair using the guide dog. We even had a few objections that these dogs could represent a dangerous means. If we carefully consult literature, we can see that these dogs, before they become dogs guides of impaired and blind persons, undergo training that lasts eight months, to categorize dogs during these eight months, and then simply give recommendations by nature to what kind of dog can such a dog be given to help, i.e. as a therapeutic rehabilitation agent or as a guide dog. What's very good, and I've never heard of it before, is that so far, blind people, who have moved with the help of other people, with the help of white sticks, have had so-called movement cramps. So finding obstacles was difficult, finding bus stops, finding adequate entrances in certain institutions, etc. For all these jobs a well-trained guide dog undergoes training and the basic task of coaching is to train such a dog to find the best solution for the user in an adequate situation. This makes it easier to move users, facilitate motors, and we do not have so-called forced movements, forced positions, which also contributes to the health condition of a moving person. In addition, it is not just a guide dog, it is also a dog that has a practical therapeutic and rehabilitation effect on its user. We know that it's very important for these people to regain their confidence, and they're just getting in touch with the animal. Special motor activities develop, more sense of hearing and tactile sensation develop. This leads to increased consumer confidence and its general rehabilitation. When we talk about guide dogs, specifically in the end of training a good coach at the end of training performs a guide dog in the real environment. What's very important is that we allow these people, the weak and the blind, to spend as much time out of closed space as possible. That's how they get one security. Just for a moment to get back to the end of training, a good coach, or experienced coach at the end of training with a dog guide performs such training that he literally works with a connection and lacks that visual contact they had until then, we are literally putting him in the position of a weak-sighted and blind person. It's very important that we can assess both the dog's ability and character. What is very important in this situation is that it is important to say that this law is regulated that not any person can carry out this final training and use and the means of public transport and public institutions, but only the trainer who clearly has the mark, he and his dog guide have been marked. So the law provided for the possibility of preventing the abuse of a guide dog and other purposes. In Voting Day, we will certainly support this law of the SNS parliamentary group, because we consider it to be an affirmative law and we consider it to be just a pretext among many of the laws that we are going to bring into the field of social protection. As we heard at one of the next sessions, we will have a sign language law, and I think we will also have laws on the use of animals for therapeutic purposes, because the guide dog is practically not just a guide dog, but is also a therapist. As for the Law on the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of France and the Republic of Serbia, I think it is one of the most comprehensive laws on social security. I think that this way, as one serious state, we will allow our citizens to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24061	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) If not, we move on to work in order of the MPs and the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Neven Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24062	Thank you, Your Honor. Respectful Ministry, advisers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since the authorised representative of the JS has already spoken about both laws and already delivered the JS's position on how we will vote, I will repeat - yes, we will support this bill for the simple reason that we think it is a fundamental law that really affects the relief of the lives of persons with disabilities. I would also like to commend the method of passing the bill itself. I believe that it is of utmost importance that the continued participation of the association and alliances of the weak and blind in the creation of this law itself. I would also like to commend you at the Ministry for allowing transparency in the work of working groups by public listening. As Mr Karic said from "Green", it is a very important step forward in the work and co-operation between parliament itself, and thus the ministry. You have not only respected the basic principle of a democratic leadership, but you have shown a desire for greater involvement of citizens in the making of laws, which is very important, especially for raising awareness of the public about the problems of persons with disabilities. The ugly truth is that our society is unaware of what it means to live with disability in a country where tactile pathways for the blind are not made according to regulations, so they are completely dysfunctional because they are placed without consulting those for whom the paths are intended, for example, or preventing sculptures, stands and other structures, and I believe everything out of ignorance of what these paths actually serve. As an example of this practice, I will specify a tactile path in Novi Sad along the business-sports centre of Spence, which leads directly to the bushes. I know it's not your jurisdiction, but if we constantly transfer responsibility from the Ministry to the Ministry, from person to person, we'll end up with a person and a society that's not responsible for anything, and it's all wrong. Although I know that this law cannot compensate for all the gaps that we have allowed ourselves as a society and state in relation to these people, I hope that by allowing people with disabilities to move more and more freely with the support of dogs, we will take one step towards building conditions where there will be no place for violation of their human and civil rights. I would like another commendation to refer to the Ministry, which is that in a very fast, record-breaking time they delivered to the Assembly the law on the use of sign language. It shows that you're more sensitive than these marginalized groups of previous ministries, I don't want to judge anything explicitly, but it's someone of my own opinion. I'd also like to commend this statistic, i.e. Your work which led to the change of this statistics that now from 21,000 in the Department of Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which were reported, was employed by 4.123, as you said, Minister. It is indeed for every commendation and the same money that you have allocated to encourage the self-employment of persons with disabilities. I would like, in the spirit of good co-operation with you, as ministers, and us, as MPs who are interested in social issues, to remind you of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular Article 287(4), which regulates an item of parliamentary issues, an institution of parliamentary issues, which provides for a 15-day period of response to the parliamentary question. I will take the opportunity, although it is not a topic, to remind myself that a single parliamentary question has been asked on March 3rd, today is March 19th, the answer has not been received, and I hope that we will soon receive it and continue this fine cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24063	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Milosavljevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24064	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, will address the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on social security, which the National Assembly is due to adopt and confirm after today's debate. Serbia and France have traditionally had good relations, especially since World War I, when they were on the same defensive side. At that time, friendly France provided invaluable support and assistance to the Serbian military and state, especially after Albania's crossing, the departure of the exhausted Serb army to Corfu. Many have been transferred from Corfu to France and there and others, when France, without any state agreement, through a solid and human relationship, has provided all forms of health and social support to our army and civilians. France and Serbia have maintained their friendship in their work and time. Then, this friendship was particularly mirrored in World War II, when they were also together against fascism. Later, the human relationship between France and Serbia turned into a state agreement that improved and formalised a number of forms of co-operation in the fields of social and health policy. Friendship and co-operation continues after World War II, when most of our citizens went to France for temporary work, as was said at the time. It was precisely because of a number of our temporary workers that the General Convention on Social Security was signed between the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia and the French Republic as early as 1950. This Convention is still in application in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, by ratifying the Agreement with the Republic of France, which we are talking about today, we are replacing the 1950 Convention, that is, the General Convention of 1950 and all its subsequent additions cease to apply. All this is about the long continuity of co-operation with France in the field of labour and social legislation. The agreement between Serbia and France on social security is one of the most comprehensive social agreements our country has signed in the area of social protection. This agreement is the basis for the comprehensive work, health and social protection of our citizens who work in France and also for the protection of French citizens who live and work in Serbia. He is a guarantee of the achievement of the many rights arising from the work. These are the following rights: the exercise of the right to an allowance for children of those persons who carry out certain activities, that is to say, work in accordance with the legal regulations of one side of the contract, then insurance for the case of age, disability and overlived family members, labour injuries and occupational illnesses, job injuries, worsening of occupational illness, social benefits for the event of death. Therefore, the Agreement regulates the area of pension and disability insurance, health insurance, health care, labour injuries and occupational diseases, motherhood and child benefits. It is very important that there is a wide range of rights which the citizens of one signatories receive in another country, if, of course, they are employed there. In Serbia, this agreement concerns regulations in the field of health insurance, health care and motherhood, pension and disability insurance, insurance for labour injuries and occupational illnesses and child allowance. In France, it is also regulations in these areas, including social security regulations, which apply to employees outside the agricultural professions, employed in agricultural occupations, self-employed workers, outside agricultural occupations and agricultural activities. This Agreement shall also apply to the extension of the legal provisions of a single Party to new categories of users or new duties, but shall not apply to legal regulations introducing a new area of social security unless the competent authorities of the Contracting States agree on their application. The agreement is based on the widely accepted principles and experiences of our country in this area, as well as the standards provided for by EU Regulation No 883/04, which regulates the social security of migrant workers. It is also important that this agreement is concluded indefinitely, of course, with the possibility that any party to the contract may cancel it in the current calendar year in written form diplomatically with the last day of that year. It is also important to point out that, in the event of the cancellation of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement will continue to apply to acquired rights, as well as to the application for the exercise of rights, until the date of its cancellation. In this way, citizens who already use rights or have applied to be protected for their use. Otherwise, with France earlier, the Republic of Serbia, since its independence, has had numerous bilateral agreements, confirming the fact of decades of co-operation and friendship. Finally, for all these reasons contained in the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on social security, the SPS parliamentary group will, with special satisfaction, support the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24065	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24066	In my address today, I will talk about the Proposal for a Law on Movement with the help of a guide dog. First, I would say something general about the use of animals for therapeutic purposes, which is highly represented in the world as a medical and socially significant presence of animals in the treatment process of people with special needs, as well as persons with different problems and living circumstances. There are different forms of these treatments and are all based on the use of animals for the purpose of physical and mental health of patients. In 2008, we have accredited the programme and started seven Serbian cities of hyporehabilitation, which means using horses for therapeutic purposes and covering hypotherapy, therapeutic riding and sports recreational riding for people with disabilities, and it is generally known that animals and their energy have a positive impact on people. What I am talking about in today's debate are guide dogs that will be able to use people with disabilities to help move in public transport, facilities and areas in public use and in the workplace as stated in Article 1 of this Law. We all have the same needs, but how we achieve their satisfaction depends on our psychophysical abilities, environments and conditions in which we live. This law aims to create prejudices for people with disabilities and to develop understanding and awareness of the general public about the existence of such persons, equalising their opportunities with the possibilities of all citizens moving along with the guide dog, meeting other people, going to concerts, exhibitions, and including them in the community to which everyone should belong, and to break the prejudices that clearly exist. The benefit achieved at close and constant direct contact between man and dog has been demonstrated in numerous studies showing positive effects achieved in the social, psychological and physiological sense. To achieve the goal, i.e. Achieving this law in the fullest sense, it is necessary to have trained, trained dogs to be used as support in the movement or therapeutic, rehabilitation or other needs of persons with disabilities, which is a dog who has undergone special training and which is visibly marked with adequate equipment in order to be recognizable. To this end, as the most characteristic and best shown are dogs labradors and gold retrievers, which can be seen from the experience of countries where there are instructors who train these types of dogs, and for the purpose of guide dogs to help people with disabilities, which is our problem which we will not be able to solve for the next few years, because, first of all, it is necessary to train instructors who will have to go abroad to pass the license, and then have to get a puppy, i.e. Dogs, and we heard from colleagues that such a dog costs about 11,000 euros, which will socialize and prepare for a guide dog where certain funds are to be invested in order to make the application of this law as effective as possible and to enable people with disabilities in the shortest period of time to have full equality with other citizens and to develop their personality freely. Also, this law provides for instructors to use movements in public transport, facilities and areas in public use and in work space during dog training. In the event of a ban or not allowing the use of space and surface, both for training and for the use of trained persons with guide dogs, fines are set. It is also important to train people who move with the help of a guide dog, who are trained with special programs that are adapted to the needs and capabilities of those persons who gain knowledge, ability and skills to move on their own, to move with a guide dog, especially socialization in the family, which is necessary for the benefit of moving along with a guide dog and the correct way of treating the dog, its care and nutrition and everything that affects animal welfare. How is moving with the help of a guide dog primarily intended for blind and impaired persons? It is a disability considered one of the most difficult sensory disability i.e. blindness, and it has already been noted several times that about 12,000 people in Serbia, three thousand weak-sighted and 9,000 blind, exist on some record. I would use this discussion to bring to the attention of the public, as well as my fellow MPs and MPs, that in Panchev, the town I come from, there is the home of the blind, the only institution in Serbia, as well as the Balkans for people with impaired vision called "care" in which the persons from Serbia are housed and persons from Slovenia and Croatia. I would also take advantage of the minister's presence and learn about the plans of this institution regarding this very law. I have already noted that there is no organisation in the Republic of Serbia that deals with the training of a guide dog or a dog breeder intended for these purposes, and I learned from the talks with the director of this institution Zorica Bozic that according to this law, together with the Alliance of Blind Serbs, would prepare a project which, within the framework of the House of Blinds, would form a centre for training of guide dogs within which to be a breeder. The formation of one such centre in the Dom of the Blind in Panchev would have multiple meanings in order to breed dogs of the Labrador and the golden retriever, there would be no large financial costs for their purchase except for the purchase of the first beds of which would begin with reproduction, dress and training of guide dogs, which would be more expensive and more practical given that all of this is within a facility where blind and undersighted persons live for 24 hours. This is another value for dogs to be socialised and acquired by the skills of training immediately and also help users to be as independent as possible, and also as an example of good practice, which I believe the ministers will contribute to this project as soon as possible, along with your ministry. Today's presentation would end with the quote of the deaf, blind Helen Keller – there is no better way to thank God for what we can see from handing out to whoever's in the dark. It is this law that is the hand we will provide and the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24067	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Violet Lutovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24068	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, is today a very important law, a bill on moving with the help of a guide dog that primarily applies to persons with disabilities, blind and impaired persons, but also to persons with disabilities who require the use of a guide dog for their movements. I would not only retain on one item that contributes to such a bill, which is that by adopting such a bill actually enables the uninterrupted movement of persons with such needs, I would stress that in addition to allowing the uninterrupted movement of such a person, persons with disabilities and to say with special needs, we allow them to engage in the achievement of all their obligations, rights, or inclusion in all social flows which are actually rights and all other citizens. Such a bill provides not only a solution for the smooth movement of persons with disabilities but also applies to many other institutions, i.e. legal persons dealing with traffic control, public parks, national markets and others, as well as employers, because they will be obliged to make a commitment within 12 months of the date of adoption of such a proposal of the law to bring appropriate acts and legal obligations to allow such persons, persons with special needs to carry out their activities. In fact, this law also has an impact on race-gathering entities, adequate breeds of dogs that would be used as guide dogs for such persons and also puts such entities in an entirely equal position, allowing them to expand their activities. The positive consequences of this law are primarily the creation of opportunities, then equality with all other social layers, breaking prejudices about people with disabilities, improving the position of people with disabilities. As a daytime worker for children distracted by development, also young people and adults, I know very well what it means and give very little to such persons, and this is much more than we can provide in such residents. Article 5 The law makes it clear what will be available to people with disabilities, or persons who will use their movements and their obligations to guide dogs. They will be absolutely accessible to stay in all public places, parks, squares, and also to use public traffic and what is added in this Article 5th and catering, i.e. catering facilities. I'm sure we've met many times with the label that at the catering facilities it's forbidden to enter persons accompanied by dogs. Also, this law allows people with disabilities to engage in the community, engage in cultural life, allow them to carry out sport-recreative activities uninterruptedly, enable them to hire, also access information, communication and absolutely all relevant information. The right to use public transport, as she said earlier, is the right to use the facility of public use and the free stay on public surfaces. In fact, I would say that by not adopting such a bill, imagine them wouldn't be able to access all of these parts that I have listed, and knowing that there are about 700,000 to 800,000 people with disabilities in Serbia, of which 12,000 weak-sighted persons, and what it would mean for them to adopt such a bill. Out of this number of 700,000 people with disabilities, one half of these people are a working-age population, a population between 15 and 64. Only half of this number I've listed is working. I put hope, first of all, into the courage of people with disabilities that the adoption of such a bill will certainly double the number of persons working and capable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24069	Thank you. The People's MP Vladica Dimitrov has the word, and let the MP Gorjana Marinkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24070	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, I will speak of the Law on Movement with the help of the guide dog and I will say immediately, as the minister twice said that the Law only regulates movement with the help of the guide dog, not the service of social protection. The law doesn't need to be the subject of any debate in my opinion, and especially not any arguments about this, and I don't see any argument, of course, and we need to be practically complicated in this law, because this law allows for the simple application of social protection services, which is the movement with the help of a guide dog. It was adopted by developing countries, and from the surrounding countries, I note that it was adopted by Croatia and Montenegro a few years ago and it was related and primarily intended for blind and impaired persons using guide dogs. However, what I would say is very important that the law applies to other entities, which are legal persons dealing with road and rail traffic, river traffic, then, legal persons in public services, persons managing public areas, private persons, ultimately catering facilities, because these are precisely the entities that have to enable the uninterrupted movement of persons moving with the help of the guide dog. In order not to be any confusion, in order to avoid any problems, it must be said that they do not essentially bear any economic effects in terms of any consumption by those persons, since in Serbia there is officially no registered guide dog, and off-the-book according to the Association for Blind and Failing Persons, there are four to five guide dogs. As for safety, it is therefore about dogs that are highly selected and trained and of some 700 dogs that are registered in the world at all, so no form of aggression or any unwanted behavior has been recorded, so basically, I tell our people who use it, means transport, in case they see a dog, there is no danger of these animals, as far as safety is concerned. Although the law does not apply to social protection services, I have to refer to it, since the law is based on that service. As a country, we don't have any dog breeders, or a certified guide dog training centre, or training those instructors. I think we should kind of think about it. Although social protection services are primarily designed to be financed by local self-government, local self-government does not have the means, to finance such social protection services, especially those closely specialised services that are very expensive. Since training only one dog, an instructor, costs 25,000 euros and is practically unimaginable, that they can finance local self-government. I would appeal to the Ministry, given that there are IPA funds and quite sensitivity and the EU's sensitivity to finance its projects, I think it should start with one project of breeder's and dog training, and he doesn't have that broad scope, and that's a fact. He will be able to provide support to a small number of blind and impaired persons, but it gives this very important positive signal that these people who are marginalized feel that the state cares about them and I am sure that if not now, at least in the next budget, you will plan funds for one of these projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24071	The word is a folk letter from Gorjana Marinkovic, and let the National Parliament of Nevenka Milosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24072	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Vulin, fellow MPs, my address today refers to the motion for a bill on movement with the help of a guide dog. Without repeating already said by previous fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to point out that I agree with all the views expressed, and in particular I would like to highlight several positive aspects of this law. The Republic of Serbia first passed a movement law with the help of a guide dog, which establishes a legal framework, which allows all blind persons, as well as other disabled persons to use guide dog services. I didn't want to just formally support this law, but I really needed to figure out what it was. In that sense, I have spoken to future users of these services, and one of them is the President of the Union of Blind Serbia, Mr. Milan Stosic, whom I thank this way, because he has helped me to understand the importance of adopting this law and what it really means for all persons with disabilities. We have come to the conclusion that in addition to all the benefits that people with disabilities in Serbia will achieve, they will also be achieved by persons with disabilities coming from abroad. In the past, guests from abroad who use guide dogs could not attend professional gatherings in Serbia, because our country could not allow them to do so. I think it was a great handicap for all of us, primarily for the professional public, because we remained deprived of many knowledge and experience, precisely from these areas. By applying these laws, guests of guide dog services will now be able to attend the meetings freely, but will also have the opportunity to meet our country as tourists. It should also be added that by adopting the Law on Movement with the help of a guide dog, it is a prerequisite for the establishment of training centres, both the user of services and guide dogs, which is of exceptional importance. By adopting this law, we lay the foundations for all future laws in this area, such as the laws on the use of sign language, the Law on Organisations of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on the signing of facsimile and many other laws. What's most important and what's essential in my opinion is that real conditions are created that as many blind, weak-sighted and other disabled people can use guide dog services. Members of the Socialist Movement Party will support this law within the SNS parliamentary group, because we believe it gives a chance for a better, better quality life to all persons with disabilities, gives them basic human rights and freedoms and gives a higher degree of social integration started just by adopting the Labour Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24073	The word of the people is Nevenka Milosevic's letter, and let the letter of the people be prepared, Ljiljan Beronj. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24074	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs with Associates, Honorable fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have two important laws in one important area. In this way, we will improve legislation in this area. I must point out that a public debate has been conducted in connection with the law on movement with the help of a guide dog. After a public debate, the task force collected all suggestions and suggestions and, on the basis of this, the text of the draft of this law and the proposal itself contains 15 members. I'd like to point out who the members of the task force were. These were representatives of the Alliance of Blind Serbia, they were representatives of the school for students of impaired vision "Veljko Ramadanovic", then the Centre for Dog Training, the Institute for Research and Documentation of Work Dogs and, of course, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs. We heard in the previous debate a lot of positive things about this law. So, multiple goals, multiple reasons, and I'm sure the positive effects that will bring about the realisation of this law in practice. I would say that these are primarily the objectives that will be pursued by the strategy itself and as a convention on persons and rights, the position of persons with disabilities, that it is certainly an improvement in the movement of persons with disabilities with the help of a guide dog and this movement primarily refers to public transport, to all public institutions, facilities, surfaces and workplaces. But it's not just the well-being of this law. The benefits of this law and the objectives and effects are also multiple, are both health and sociological and therapeutic and rehabilitation effects of this law. What is good, that a dog alone in association with a user brings more independence, greater independence, and that friendly relationship between them is very important. Furthermore, where many representatives have already potentiated, the well-being is the removal of many prejudices about people with disabilities, and I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we sometimes differ and do not use real terms for people with disabilities, or persons with developmental disorders. It's not true that these are people with special needs. Their needs are the same or similar with all the needs of other citizens, but only the way in which these needs are met differs. There are sometimes physical barriers or prejudice itself. Of course, this law will improve a lot in this area. The well-being of this law is an inclusion, and the very inclusion, in exchange for that word, is inclusion. Inclusion of these people into all social flows to achieve integration, but also interaction with society. As we have heard, the number of people with disabilities according to the Alliance of the Blind Republics of Serbia, the association that gathers all local associations in Serbia, is between 700 and 800,000 and what is most important, this law will improve the overall position of people with disabilities. I'm just going to take a moment to draw attention to the position of these people in my municipality, the Ivanica municipality. Just a few figures, a few examples of good practice from this community. Out of 1,500 users of social protection services 500 are persons with disabilities, one third, high percentage. The person with visual and blind eyes is 35 to 40. Dear Ministers, you've been to Ivanjica, you've visited the Centre for Social Work, one living room, open door, you haven't visited another open door, unfortunately, you'll be, open room "Sun", you'd have a lot to see and a sensory room and a lot of projects like "Predah" and what delights me because I often leave, is user training, that they make many objects for use, have, say, development where they make useful items and benefit from it. Just because I would like to shorten my discussion, a positive example, is also the Ivanjic Society for Cerebral Paralysy, where the team of this society headed by their president, Svetlana Glavinic, has accredited a programme for training personal escorts of children being conducted throughout Serbia. Only in Belgrade has personal escorts trained so far. To commend the action that has been carried out "Man of the Year" and in this context I call on the public and the media and all of us to talk more about positive examples in Serbia because there are indeed many. In the end, members of the SNS and I together with them will be very pleased to support both draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24075	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24076	As you know, we're funding the association you're talking about and certainly the Ministry is taking care of. Thank you for "The Man of the Year". I think that society doesn't care enough about people who work in social protection, in the whole social protection system, from centres to gerantocenters or institutions for children of all those people who really contribute to a better and fairer position and all those who need it. "Man of the Year" is an activity we believe will become traditional, that society in Serbia will accept and be grateful for the people it has and who work in social protection. It's our way of thanking them as a ministry, but also to draw the public's attention to how valuable they are, how decent people they are. You know, we in the welfare system have a total staff of about 9,000 people. So, in social work centres about two thousand and something, they stayed in all other institutions, and we take care of 700,000 users. Now, find another institution in this country that has such statistics. Thank you for noticing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24077	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljan Beronj.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24078	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, another law that will make it a little easier for us to position, move, and, above all, the functioning of people with disabilities. Let me start by saying that this law will not require additional funding, which is also very important to us. It was enough just for someone to start thinking about a group of people with disabilities. So far, the functioning of these people depended on the principle of good will of employers, from the directors of public institutions, from the drivers in the city traffic, from the caterers, so that persons moving with the help of the guide dog were never sure what kind of relationship they would encounter because so far these animals have been treated as pets, but now they will get the status that regulates the law. Although objects are defined in the fields of culture, sport, tourism, hospitality, it is still the most significant that a blind and weak-sighted person can get into education, health and social protection facilities uninterrupted, because they have virtually the most needs in such areas. For the first time, a term is used that allows the use of dogs, not only as a guide, but also for therapeutic and rehabilitation purposes, and the colleague mentioned earlier what the project means for children who are suffering from autism when using animals. We have to admit that moving along with a guide dog is not a common practice in our cities. The reason is that there is first no licensed person or institution in our country that deals with this, and the purchase of such trained dogs is neither simple nor cheap. And after this law is passed, it will take time to live with us. Until then, such an instrument obtained abroad will be certified in our ministry in charge of the tasks of improving the position of disabled people. The law defines not only the rights but also the obligations of all the participants to which the law applies. The person moving with the help of the guide dog must have proof that the training has passed, and also the dog must have proof that the training has passed, must be duly marked and the instructor must also be licensed, and not by any ordinary confirmation, but that the certificate has all the characteristics of an authorised institution. The instructor has all the rights only in the phase while the dog is trained for his function and then has free access to all facilities in public use. It will be punishable if the dog is used outside of training. And, of course, in due course, all the conditions for training of such dogs will be met in Serbia as well. What are the reasons for this law? First, the implementation of the objectives foreseen by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the European strategy from 2010 to 2020, "Europe without Barrier". Secondly, enabling people with disabilities to move easier in all areas, which will allow one complete inclusion of people with disabilities in all segments of society. If it is taken into account that between 700 and 800,000 people with disabilities live in Serbia, 330,000 of them aged 15 and 64, of which 168 are active, attention must be paid to all factors that can bring this category as close as possible to the active flows of society, i.e. to enable them to have a greater social inclusion and above all enable them to earn their own wages rather than depend on family and community. In particular, according to the Alliance of Blind Serbia, we have 12,000 members, of which 9,000 are blind and about 3,000 weak-sighted. But the news is that other disabled people can also use these opportunities, whether in therapeutic or rehab. Most European countries have already passed such laws and countries in the environment, Croatia and Montenegro. The expedient circumstances covered by this law are that the Law on Planning and Construction already regulates the way of construction for public and business purposes, where access, movement, stay and work of persons with disabilities, children and older populations is facilitated, which means that this category will be taken into account in the course of construction itself. The task force working on this proposal was formed by representatives of the Alliance of Blind Serbia, the School for Violent Students "Veljko Ramadanović", the Dog Training Centre, the Institute for the Research and Documentation of Work Dogs, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, which was in contact with a large number of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, means one major and extensive action. In view of the prejudice or fear of the presence of dogs in a limited area, public area, health institutions, catering facilities, there is a commitment and a large role that the media could play in a further campaign. We must not even ignore the prejudices that individuals have, not only toward animals, but also toward people with disabilities. By some other sublegal act, we will see that the presence of dogs in some very sensitive areas, such as infectious clinics, such as maternity homes, will be resolved. It's a long enough deadline for all parties to get to know their comprehensive activities, so, in six months, and here, I can say that we're already on the Labour Committee today with a bill on the use of sign language for deaf people, so this category will be very soon covered. Finally, just to praise the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on social security, as a fruit of the two countries' desire to refresh the current agreement, which is about 65 years old, because the agreement is practically now in line with EU standards, and also applies to all areas, both social and health insurance, and this includes equal treatment of both Contracting States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24079	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24080	Thank you. Our group of MPs has well assessed this law and our general assessment is that it can be one step towards improving the position of blind and weak-sighted persons, but that it is not sufficient for those faces to live better and live a life of a man of dignity in the 21st century. In fact, it is positive that blind and weak-sighted persons will be able to function more easily with the help of the guide dog, do daily jobs, go to the store, go to work, go to the restaurant, but in our opinion it is insufficient, because those persons do not have enough care for their other social needs. These are the most common persons who do not have enough resources for everyday life, for basic existential needs, I think of food and pay for the apartment and pay for the heating and are usually persons on the verge of social danger or socially endangered. For many of them, guide dogs are inaccessible, inaccessible for financial reasons, because even basic needs cannot be met. On the other hand, the general concern for disabled persons and the socially endangered persons in our country is likely at the lowest level of multilaterals in Serbia. These days, I don't know if the minister is aware of it, since he deals with everything except his work, 248 NIS workers will be out of work and according to the documentation I have here in hand, there are 49 disabled persons among them, Mr. Vulin. So, 49 people with disabilities are on the NIS release list in the next period, according to a program called – resolving extra employees by decision of 26. 01. 2015. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, that it's not a little cynical when you come to the Assembly with a law on dogs guides serving disabled persons, visionless persons or impaired visions, and at the same time there's a process of layoffs under the Labour Act, which you've brought, disabled persons, from a company that operates profitablely. Imagine what happens to companies that are in poor financial condition. Maybe that's funny to you, Mr. Vulin, but you've been talking about this law for a minute and 59 seconds today. You're much more engaged when you're supposed to defend Mr. Wolfie's character than when you have to explain what this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24081	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24082	I'm very much on the subject, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24083	You're not. Don't criticize the minister. Go back to the topic and talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24084	Mr. Vulin talked less than two minutes about a subject that's on the agenda today. I'm comparing it to his defense of the character and the work of Mr. Vukic, which is not in the description of his work...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24085	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the topic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: What is the topic? Do you know what the law is called? ) You know what the subject of the agenda is. Do you want to finish? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24086	Mr. Becic, you have no business opportunity to take my word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24087	Mr. Veselinovic, I can give you a warning, but I don't want to, and I wanted to move on to another speaker. If you want to finish on the subject of the agenda, about the law that's on the agenda, the bill of movement with the help of the guide dog...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24088	I haven't been off topic for a moment, but I'll try...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24089	Yes, you have tried to interpret whether anyone has the right to speak for half an hour, 20 minutes, two minutes, whether someone has the right to mention or not, whether they have the right to expose themselves in the way they want to expose their discussion. So, you did everything, you just didn't talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24090	So the blind and weak-sighted faces, which are given this law the possibility of having the help of a guide dog, will not be able to exploit that possibility. So, beyond the law, other conditions need to be created. Mr. Karic spoke of part of these terms. So when a weak-sighted face or a blind face in Novi Sad comes out with a dog guide to the street, he and his guide dog attack stray dogs that the town of Novi Sad doesn't care about. Mr. Vulin, you didn't take care of that. Maybe it's funny to you, but it's true, the sad truth, Mr. Vulin, life in Serbia in 2015. So, you didn't predict the possibility that the look on your face might have a chance to move... Will you tell me what you said to Mr. Becic, but when you get the word, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24091	Mr. Veselinović, don't speak to the Minister. Mr. Veselinovicu, finish the presentation, to be answered by Mr. Minister. Don't rephrase with the minister from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24092	You didn't let me speak, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24093	How could I not let you? You're just talking, you've got a microphone on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24094	I'm asking you to remind the gentleman who's drowning from laughter in the last bench, since he's making it impossible for me to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24095	Sir, in the last bench, drowning with laughter, please don't laugh anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24096	It's Mr. Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24097	Mr. Granny, don't laugh, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24098	... Who doesn't need a guide dog, but needs a guidebook.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24099	I ask the MPs not to laugh as Mr. Vesenovic speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24100	Members of the SNS are funny when it comes to socially endangered persons, persons who have no basic living conditions, disabled persons, visionless persons. Mr. Babić is funny when I talk about people without eyesight, who do not have the opportunity to go out on the street, who do not have the ability to have a guide dog and who do not have the ability to feed their family, because Mr. Babic voted the first Law on work that abolished past work and reduced incomes to undersighted persons, so he voted the Law on the reduction of wages and pensions and thus further reduced incomes to undersighted persons and today this law, which is coming, I said at the beginning that it is a formal law that gives these persons the opportunity to have guide dogs and that, within some standards, which exist in other modern countries, use these guide dogs. However, we are not a modern country, nor are we a country that otherwise allows those persons to live normally. That's what I mentioned, local self-government, is probably not much better in Belgrade, not in Vranj, not in Nis, not in Nis, not in the sights of the faces living better than they live in Novi Sad. That's why I thought that you should have taken this discussion as a description of the real situation, Mr. Vulin, and very carefully recorded what I said, not because of me, but because of the faces I was talking about, instead of laughing at the fact that the look on your face couldn't come out of your apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24101	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24102	I was wondering when we'd stop discussing the law. And I got the answer. I was wondering when they'd break into politics. And I got the answer. I was wondering when we would stop discussing a law that has 15 members, it's very clear, absolutely professional, unquestionable in every way and when we're going to start dealing with daily politics? I got the answer. I admit, I didn't expect him to break into hate. I didn't expect him to see this kind of rage. I didn't expect it to be attacked if I defended the president of my government and the president of my coalition. Very interesting. If I were to say a few words of my deepest respect for some of the other presidents now, perhaps the MPs, who voted for them, would applaud, saying that it was very good to speak ill of them. Only you can't defend Wolfie. Is that right? Only his family can't be protected, so when no one else will, when the Protector of the Citizens won't protect his child, I will, and it's not for criticism. But let's go back to the law, if the law is at all interested in some of the honourable MPs. If this law makes sense, and you yourself said you'd vote for it, you could have brought it in 12 years of your own power. It didn't occur to you. We bring it, we bring it. You could have passed a law on, say, sign language use. You didn't think to bring it. We'll bring it in after eight months. You didn't bring it in after 12 years, but no, you're worried. As you can see, we're worried. You could have passed a law on persons with disabilities associations, but it didn't occur to you, and we'll bring it back in a year from our dealing with this ministry. Yeah, we're worried. No social giving in this country is diminished or disabled. Yeah, we're worried, not a single one. When you mention the Labour Act, in the provisions of this Labour Act, against whom you are so fierce, and as far as I hear, when you see foreign ambassadors and some other EU representatives, praise that law and say that someone still had to pass it, but here for the day policy, you will play as you think you should, for the first time a person with disabilities who becomes a technological surplus has the right to severance, and so far has not had... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: NIS? )......................................................................................................... And NIS. Under the provisions of the laws that you have passed by a disabled person who has been fired as a technological surplus from the NIS had no right to severance, and now has the right to severance. I wish I could protect every person with disabilities and every employee from losing their jobs, I can't. But what I can do, I can. We've protected disabled people, at least by having severance. Under your law, there was no severance, and you weren't NIS, and we didn't make a contract with NIS, you did. So, if we have to talk about that, as far as disabled persons are concerned, we've predicted 500 million dinars for incentives in their employment, we've hired, last year, maybe you weren't there, so you haven't heard, 4123 people, people with disabilities on the National Employment Service records are employed, out of the 21 000 that there are on the National Employment Service's record. So how do we worry? When you're talking about things you obviously don't know and you don't understand about them, so it's the easiest way to criticize others, then you'd have to walk a little bit by, say, companies for professional rehabilitation, so-called protection workshops, rights, as we usually know them, so you'd see how much we've been able to invest and even, we've protected them from forced privatisation, because they're subject to special rules. But of course you don't care, it doesn't sound good, it doesn't sound political, it doesn't interest you, not enough, I guess the number of voters, especially when the government takes care of them. I'm sorry this law, this good law here serves politics. I'm sorry that it serves to unconditionally attack one man, to attack one policy, to attack one government, to make very, very tense comparisons. It is difficult to introduce this law into the domain of daily politics. It's hard. This law was written by associations of people with disabilities. This Law was written by the Association of Blind and Unsightly. Of course you don't care. If you were interested in that, you'd be doing it. But that's not what you're interested in, okay? You have every right, I respect it rightly, that as a People's MP you say here whatever you think you need to say. I hope that will help you in your political career in vote-gathering. But, you know, this law doesn't deserve that. I was wondering when we'd stop dealing with the law and start doing day-to-day politics. I got the answer, but I didn't expect this much hate and aversion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24103	You want a replica? You didn't mention it. You jumped off the subject, I followed it, you talked about everything except the law. Your exposure wasn't about the agenda point. I followed closely, and if I had been in the chair's position, I would have reacted. He was maximum tolerance. This law did not deserve to be discussed beyond the agenda, nor did the people to whom it applies. That was a cartoon. I won't give you a replica, because you can do it by the Rules of Procedure, please, you'll have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24104	Articles 106 and 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, injured the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn the Prime Minister, Minister Vulin, because he said two or three times that there was hatred in my presentation. So, in my presentation, there was no hatred, no shred of hatred. In my presentation, I merely explained the context in which this Law is adopted. In addition, I did not have any fundamental objections to the law itself, but in the context and I know that the association of blind and undersighted associations participated in the adoption of this Law and the provisions which had not been made or subsequently entered into the Law. In our parliamentary group, everyone reads the law in detail, and being the representatives of the authorities in the same recognition of hate, that's their problem, but it's not yours, even the president to give an assessment of my exposure. My presentation was focused on the topic of the agenda, which is the lack of eyesight and blindness that get one possibility, but they were taken away from every other possibility to live decently, with dignity. In that context, I spoke. So one law has its own social context. You as a lawyer should know. He's not being brought out of time and space. It should be applied to specific people who do not have to eat, and will have guide dogs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24105	Thank you. Now I'm going to answer you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24106	I hope I've explained to you why you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24107	You've explained everything to me and I understand perfectly. You spoke 12 seconds longer, and you were violated by the Rules of Procedure, if that's how we're gonna talk. You've completely missed out on article 106, and I think you've made a fool of yourself. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: You can't say – it sucks. Don't throw it at me. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: He did not talk about the topic. You guys suck. That's what I'm gonna tell you. This is what the public is looking at, you can throw, and I can't say one Serbian word – it sucks. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: You are a mess. I accept that I'm lame, absolutely. But I accept, unlike you, I don't jump, I don't insult, I won't throw it to you. I accept that MPs tell me whatever they think they should say on behalf of their voters on behalf of Serbian citizens. You are not here Janko Veselinovic, but an MP for a number of Serbian citizens. So I understand that on behalf of your voters, you said that I suck and I agree. (Janko Vesenovic, from the place: You told me I was a mess. I agree completely, I'm on behalf of my voters. So the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. In your explanation, you didn't talk about it. I don't know which speaker you were referring to. Article 106, no one can interrupt a speaker. No one interrupted him. You said I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Except for the president of the National Assembly, I didn't interrupt. I wasn't even in the O.R. During speech or other participants are not allowed to throw away, interfere with speakers, and any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech has not been done either. My finding is that you called and said article 106 just to say something, it stands. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: I said Article 107) Good and 107th, and now you're going to name a few more. It's not a problem, there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure at all. According to the members you listed, no injured Rules of Procedure. I'm still standing by my finding that you only wanted to get the word. It's my right to make findings. Of course, by voting and I hope that you will attend this vote, I would ask all MPs who say that they also attend the vote, not to punish the other MPs for having to vote for something they didn't even ask for. I thank both you and the other MPs for not lightly seeking a vote, because then they punish the other MPs who sit there and realize that the voting process is also important, not just the speech process. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? I did, you said, a competitive shop, a nod and a throw I realized we'd vote. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I will not contiguously work to... Are you changing your mind or what? Thank you. I'm not in the mood to joke, the subject is very serious, especially, as you can see, I'm wearing glasses, I take this subject very seriously. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24108	I thank Madam President, and I hope that these half-minutes that have been lost, unfortunately, because of the controversy with Mr. Veseinovic, you will make up for it. I'm reporting from a personal note, and my esteemed colleague, Vesna Rakonjac, will be reporting as representative of the SNS parliamentary group. A colleague said earlier and accused you of being cynical and that someone was cynical. I think this will go into textbooks as a definition of cynicism. When someone who, as Mr. Veselinovic did in just four years, left 400,000 people without a job, when someone took over power in Serbia in 2008, found 13% unemployed, and in 2012, when the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that policy was punished, returned with 26% of the unemployed, he could raise his head and raise his voice for the workers and for the employee. Someone who, as Mr. Veselinovic and his leader with Boris Tadic, has promised 200,000 jobs can talk about employees and employment and defending workers in Serbia. Because of the attitudes he had just made, even his colleagues sitting behind him, and I watched, they were embarrassed by that amount of hatred that was expressed without any argument. Cinism is, gentlemen, when you sell and make a contract and negotiate the sale of NIS, and then you say - and why do such and such things work? Well, they are, Mr. Veselinovic, because you made it possible to work. You didn't protect her. The only thing that mattered to you at the time was that contract, as well as the SAA and many other things, only to be commended to the citizens of Serbia, to introduce them as they are not. Now it's time for you to come out and get up and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24109	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24110	... You say, "We've done bad work, we've negotiated badly, we've given support to people who can do better, who have the courage to make the Labour Law, for which we've got the support."
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24111	Time, I counted you 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24112	... Not only the international communities, but also the local public and employees.. Well, it's time, not this kind of thing you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24113	Thank you. The word has Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24114	I don't want to make flammable speeches and in the absence of an argument to yell like Mr. Babic. He doesn't believe what he said either. I saw that his colleagues were ashamed behind him and that's how they felt when you spoke, Mr. Granny. They were ashamed of your words, because they know, because they know that during the government of Boris Tadic, wage workers grew. Salaries have grown. Pensions during the government of Boris Tadic, and so the evil authorities, grew up and pensioners were able to live on their pensions, Mr Babić, compared to pensions of the current pensioners of which they cannot put an end to the end. You took their soul. And you're talking about some past tense. And you're talking about you doing something for the citizens of Serbia. Except for the promise, except for the government's promise to Mr. Vukic, you didn't do anything. Zero. So zeroes in all segments and employment and attracting foreign investment. Only debts grow, only debt increases that is greater than ever, the rise of the government's commitment to foreign investors. In any case, the fact that certain MPs, during your presentation, release some screams that are more prone to caves...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24115	Ambassador, I will not allow you to insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24116	Don't you hear that, President?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24117	No, I hear you said MPs make screams, it's untasteful.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24118	Don't you hear that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24119	It's tasteless. I hear what you're saying. I'd have heard that there was a scream.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24120	Ambassador, I'm really asking you as a professor, a doctor, to pay attention to the fact that we're not setting aside the entire parliament. They're throwing away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24121	I will not allow you to abuse the words of the MPs to scream. I won't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24122	Wasn't that the case?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24123	Go, please, write a complaint that you don't have the opportunity to criticise the government here. Now, now for the press conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24124	But I won't let this parliament turn into something like this. You're a professor, you're from Novi Sad, I'm asking you to criticise your colleagues with dignity, not screams. Oh, don't scream. I won't allow it. You're a lawyer, you're from Nova now... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24125	MP, you've come from an ugly atmosphere in this House and stopped talking about a very important law for a particular category of population. You've made a mess, and I won't let that happen. You have the right to challenge replicas, but you have no right to insult and I recommend you hold a press conference, if you have to complain where you always complain. I won't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24126	You, the chairman, cannot instruct me to hold a press conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24127	Tell them Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go. You were entitled to the replica half an hour ago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24128	I'm reporting as authorized. Thank you, President. Honorable ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, I'm very ashamed and I'm very sad about those people who have such a handicap that they can't go out on their own on the street, that they can't visit schools, that they can't exercise their rights in any segment of life. With one good, good step, a good start we set out to enable them to exercise their rights. Because of those beautiful children who are undersighted or blind, whose parents have to guide them and take them away from school and this law can help them with a pet, with a friend achieve their right and some talent, let's say musically, without burdening your parents and that parent can do his job. I'm also ashamed of them because we've come to this situation with one flagrant violation and a cartoon of good law. As for the Labour Act, the Labour Act received all the praises and we were present when you could hardly wait for the wrong information to comment on the Labour Act in the ugliest way, and I'm going to give you an example of why the work went so defined in the new Labour Act, and it took place between 2000 and 2012. The employee of a company that was a company in decline in a hint nicely at the end of its working century...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24129	Time. Two minutes. Finish your sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24130	... Takes severance, gets a job at another work organisation. Once again, after two years, he takes re-delivery on full-time work. With two severances...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24131	I thank you for your letters.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24132	I have to finish my sentence. He retires, and then this company's part-time recruiting him to do temporary and occasional jobs. That's why this law is like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24133	Thank you. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24134	I thought, Madam President, that I would remind both the Serbian public and all my colleagues and colleagues here for all the failed promises and for 200,000 jobs promised and not for the 400,000 people who had lost their jobs, without a future, and that's official statistics, is not a fanish passion won by a previous speaker. I also thought I would remind myself of those thousands of euros just to win Boris Tadic's presidential election. I thought I would also remind myself of the promises made by 2012 that we would also become a member of the EU, and we did not step back on that path. I thought I'd remind all of you that by 2012, Serbia's public debt had grown steeply, from the one not earned, but borrowed, burdening future generations, something fictitious just to win the election. I also thought to remind you that in 2012, you left your pension in the budget, so worried about pensioners and public sector employees, the budget liquidated for only 15 days, only for half a pension, but pushed fat and deep into bankruptcy. I thought, but I don't want to, because it's a little two minutes, it's a little one session to talk about all the troubles and all the irregularities and all the crimes that the former regime has left for the citizens of RS. I'm going to use these two minutes or how many seconds I have left to make of the one who hates and the one who insults can never expect an apology, but I'm going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24135	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24136	... The way to get up in the name of the one who hates, who insults, who says that colleagues miss out on screams and not on speech, to apologize to both colleagues and colleagues and to you, but also to the Serbian public for having to attend and listen to these salves of insult and hate salva.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24137	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24138	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic has already made some of the objections, i.e. these are simply some proposals to improve the text of the laws that we have received from the Association of Blind and Low-sighted Serbia "White Stick" and individuals in the organisation of the gatherings around their alliance. Otherwise, it's been a society that's been dealing with this for decades, and this really needs to be seen as a law on human rights promotion. Every time we talk about human rights, every time we talk about the position of people with disabilities, we need to understand that it's a job that's never finished. It is a target that is constantly running and we will never come up with any solution that we will say – well, that is, the job is done, because it is one area where there is always room for improvement. It is also important to understand the suggestions that we will make, which did not come from us, but from the people who did so. You, Mr. Minister, replied to Mr. Milosavljevic that this association was satisfactorily involved in the making of this law. They think it wasn't the case. They even complain, not only that they were not involved in the task force, not only them but also other experts who deal with it, but even complain that the public debate, let's say, was held in Belgrade in an area that was not completely accessible to people with disabilities and they could not even attend the public debate, which prevented a few of their members and representatives from participating in the public debate. You probably think they were involved in making this law, just like the unions were involved in making the Labour Law, so it's quite relative to you, which means someone was involved in making the law. All these remarks that they have and the proposals that we have translated into amendments go one way, which is that all the provisions of the law must be better precise. What's one of their big regrets and our proposal, we haven't seen the government's opinion on the amendments, so it would be convenient for you to tell us why it was rejected, is that proper regulation of the support service of the guide dog and the assistant dog is not respected. They actually suggest that these two concepts be separated, treated as two separate things and done so taking into account the international and European standards achieved in providing these services with disability. They believe that it is necessary to distinguish the terms of the guide dog, i.e. ‘gue dogs’ in this international legislation, from other types of dogs that provide support, assistance to people with disabilities, such as ‘hiring dogs’, those dogs to support deaf and deaf persons, ‘service dogs’, those are dogs to support persons with different types of disability and different types of actions and support, or persons with physical disability, including persons with wheelchairs, then persons with mental and intellectual disability, including autism, then persons with diabetes, chronic epilepsy, etc. In this respect, the number of users of new services should also be sufficiently widely set to prevent the unfair treatment of persons with those difficulties. I think it was useful to hear what they said. These are, however, people who have been dealing with this matter for dozens of years, who are ultimately gathering people, who are facing these problems, and I don't think it's clear why such a single proposal has not been respected. In addition to public debate, which they consider not to have been sufficiently inclusive, they also complain that the bill does not respect international and European standards relating to dogs guides and dogs assistants, assistants, as well as mobility instructors, since it is the same matter defined in international legislation when this area is concerned, and this is not our law. Then, they felt that, in addition to them, international experts from EU member states had to be involved, who had nevertheless moved far beyond what this law would throw away. They considered it necessary by law to define several important issues, processes and necessary conditions for the implementation of guide and assistant dog training, as well as the training of users and dogs and the necessary preparation for the process. It is the training of the independent movement of blind and weak-sighted persons when it comes to the service of the guide dog. They also considered it necessary to define by law the means from which the development of the service is planned – the support of the guide dog and the helper dog and for which it will be used for exactly what purposes, as well as to reserve for the development of this service the necessary minimum funds in the percentage amount in relation to the budgetary resources intended for the programme in the area of improving the position of persons with disabilities, since several colleagues have already talked about the fact that it is a service that still requires certain financial resources. Then, it is necessary to bring the text of the laws into line with the standards and definitions set out in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and International Standards of Human Rights, i.e. the definition of disability and persons with Disabilities. They also resent the fact that such a text of the draft law does not implement a strategy on improving the position of persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015, although this area is not adequately regulated in general, nor specified and defined by the strategy and the current action plan for its implementation from 2013 to 2015. This is not an obstacle to the adoption of the law in such strategic frameworks, but it is necessary for the law to be written in the context of the start-up of the process and the further development of the new service to be prescribed by this law, the assistance services of the guide dog and the assistant dog, which persists for unknown reasons under the law. Finally, their final remark, given that this type of service is very similar to certain social protection services prescribed by the Social Protection Act, the basis for regulating this service should be in this law, and the adoption of the law governing this service should initiate appropriate amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act. I hope that's something you're thinking about and what you're planning to do anyway. We have tabled several amendments and all are heading towards what I have cited as remarks by this Association of Blind and Failing Serbs, who have otherwise started these processes of introducing a guide dog for the blind in Serbia. I'm saying, there's a lot we can talk about, what we need to talk about. We believe that the intention is good, but we also believe that there is room to improve this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24139	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24140	You can imagine how many objections all these associations have because this law has not been passed, here, for 14 years. But, well, we recognized the need to pass this law and, as you can see, very quickly we did everything possible to get it brought. The public debate in Belgrade was even twice. So more than the law requires. It was held at the Association of Alliances of Blind and Weaker Serbians. I don't know how it wasn't available to blind and weak-sighted people if they were rooms of the Association of Blind and Faint-sighted Serbs. That's what we were talking about. As for the availability of everyone else, I must tell you that we and how we are doing, and I am sure that with great care you will welcome our actions precisely to the availability of persons with disabilities of all public institutions. During the last few months, you will see concrete shifts as regards the ramp, with regard to availability and the person using the wheelchair as a wheelchair. It could have been done before in 14 years and maybe 14 years ago. It's not done enough, but here, we'll do what hasn't been done in 14 years and that's fine. Only this ministry finances at an annual level about 500 different alliances, either republican, provinceal, municipal, regional, etc. So over 500 of these alliances, past the alliances of more than 1,000 different organisations that bring together persons with disabilities, are also financed by this ministry, based solely on special programme competitions. The public debate serves to get all these 500 plus a thousand plus as much as it will if it wants to participate. But not all 500 plus 1,000 have to be members of the task force. It's just not possible and you know it well. Then that's not an argument. Someone doesn't think he's represented enough. The public debate serves that everyone can be represented exactly as much as they want to be represented, no more or less. It depends only on his activity. Each of the amendments you said, or remarks, as you say, you have concrete explanations on multiple pages of text, each given. So, this law has 15 members, and I think we've given the reasons on one page of 19. But that's how it's supposed to be. It's about our seriousness, but respect that seriousness. It was really working, it was really trying. It's all explained why and how. When it comes to the assistant dog, you see, this law clearly provides for and the status of the guide dog and the therapist dog and the assistant dog and any other kind of dog, in the sense that the dog has its working character as provided for by this law. Let's do it again. This is a moving law. This isn't dog law. This isn't even the law that regulates dog training. This is a law relating to moving with a dog guide. Its primary role is to regulate this matter, to regulate it so that you and the guide dog can enter public and private facilities, how you do it. The training of dogs, the training of instructors, the training of blind and weak-sighted persons to use that dog is regulated by other laws or other rules. This isn't dog law. This is a moving law with the help of a dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24141	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24142	Thank you, Madam President. I really expected some more serious answer instead of the cynical, quasi-spiritual achievements of Minister Vulin, whom he is extremely prone to, and failedly trying to always carry them out in action. The point is that space may have been accessible to the blind and the weak, it was not available to the people in the wheelchair, and what you are constantly predicting is that this law should be dealt with and that is exactly what our amendment is about, given that the needs of these people, as you can see from your answer, are different, to make a difference in the terms of dogs that will serve to move those people with completely different needs. I mean, really, I'm at that level that you're talking about, who adopted what 14 years ago, I can't talk because it would take us you know where, at a time when you and Mira Markovic dragged this country into everything you've dragged her into. So, I think the people who are weak-sighted, the people who may be dependent on this law, and indeed the future equal participation in society, don't deserve that kind of behavior from you, Mr. Minister, and they certainly won't hear the answers to your rude comments from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24143	Minister Vulin has the right to a replica. Here you go, Minister. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24144	Only if he's rude and he's using this law for day-to-day political purposes, and other people are accused of cynicism and so forth. I must remind you that the debate on the law was going very correctly, in line with the agenda theme, until some MPs decided that it would be good for them to try to turn to their electoral body and, of course, throw mud at someone else. But, well, that's what he says about everyone, and what he says and his behavior. It would be good not to use laws like this and things like this for day-to-day political purposes. You're talking about accessibility. If you were interested in what you're saying, you'd know that one public debate was held at the Association of Blinds and Weaks, which has a problem with accessibility for people with disabilities who use wheelchairs, and the other was held in the rooms of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities, where there is complete accessibility for wheelchairs. But that doesn't interest you, doesn't sound good. It doesn't matter at all. So, yes, accessibility exists and existed, but it didn't matter to you. I'm sorry you're already talking on this level. I hope we get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24145	The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Let Blagoje Bradić prepare himself - not there, Ljiljana Malusic after her.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24146	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, will return to the agenda, which is the Law on Movement with the help of the guide dog. I will return to the topic because it is important for the SNS and how important this law is in today's debate, which concerns improving the position of a particularly vulnerable group, and this vulnerable group is persons with disabilities. The Serbian Progressive Party, starting from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and from the basic principle, is the principle of equality of all its citizens, believes that by debate and passing such a law and how to improve the position of disabled persons, which will also lead to a step forward in terms of equality and equal participation of blind and impaired persons in the overall social life of the Republic of Serbia. Also, this law, from the aspect of the SNS, and once again from the Constitution, is acceptable from the aspect of the basic principle, which is the principle of dignity, respect for every man, regardless of his personal qualities. The law, in the SNS aspect, is also acceptable from the aspect of the Strategy on improving the position of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia and with its strategic objectives. It is also significant from the point of view of the International Convention on the promotion of the position of persons with disabilities, in particular Articles 9 and 20 of the Convention, which provides in Article 20 that persons with disabilities, in terms of autonomous movement, have the right to support and assistance through various aids, but also through the use of living forces and intermediaries. This living force and intermediaries can certainly, among other things, be the movement of these faces with the help of guide dogs, as well as the help of instructors who will work together with a disabled person and together with a dog, until the moment those faces are trained to move along with the dog. I would also like to stress that this law is also significant in the aspect of a European strategy relating to the promotion of disabled persons, known as a Europe without barriers, which, of course, predicts that these people are using all their rights in full scope. The law is summed up, clear, concise, and provides the possibility of establishing for the first time a new service. Social protection services, and this service, for the most part, falls under social protection services, are regulated by Article 45. Social protection laws and how they finance members 205 and 209. The Serbian Progressive Party, in Vote Day, will give full support to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24147	The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Malusic, and Irena Alexic should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24148	President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected guests from the ministry, honourable Members of Parliament, today I will talk about the bill of movement with the help of the guide dog. One extraordinary law, human, first of all, human rights and human dignity. In Serbia today, there are unfortunately between 700,000 and 800,000 people with disabilities, which is the European average of 8% to 12% according to the number of MPs. Thirty-three thousand of this number is working age from 15 to 64, and 168,000 people are active. This law is very important, I'm sorry it hasn't been brought much earlier, 15, 14.5, 15 years have passed, I don't know where any criticism comes from. We had the strength and desire to make an extraordinary law and all the praises for the Ministry and the Serbian Progressive Party and I would like to say a few things. First of all, this law determines the right of persons with disabilities to move with the help of a guide dog in public transport, meaning all types of public transport, facilities and areas in public use and work space. The guide dog is mostly used by weak-sighted and blind people. There are about 12,000 of them in Serbia, 9,000 are blind and about 3,000 weak-sighted and not only blind and weak-sighted, but other people who use wheelchairs, and legally belong to a guide dog. What is very important in this moving law, primarily exceptional effects, between the fact or interaction that happens between a guide dog and a blind person, leads to very positive effects both for therapeutic purposes, both health, sociological and psychological. This law is very human. I would like to say what is very important and that is that the 2010-2020 strategy has just indicated that it is very important to work on accessibility, inclusion. It's very important that we know that these people are not invisible, that they should become very visible. They need help. What is little to them, which we give them little, means much to them. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities defines primarily respect for native dignity, prohibition of discrimination, inclusion in society, respect for differences and acceptance of persons with disabilities, as works of human diversity and humanity, equal opportunities for all. Equality of women and men and respect for the rights of children with disabilities to preserve their identity. The Serbian Progressive Party because of this human law and not only that, but it had the courage and guts to do this law before everyone else, will vote for this extraordinary law in the day of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24149	Thank you. The People's MP Irena Aleksic has the word, and let the MP Marijan Rističević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24150	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, when it comes to the bill on moving with the help of a guide dog, I would first of all like to point out that it is an extremely human law that aims to help and improve the quality of life with disabilities. One more thing I would point out when it comes to this law is that there is no binding regulation at EU level that requires the introduction of this law. On the contrary, Member States themselves have been left to assess themselves which are the best ways, best mechanisms to help these people, i.e. to improve their position in society. I think it certainly speaks very highly of our government, i.e. the competent ministry which, without any kind of pressure, has seen this need to be very useful, that it is very humane and that it is certainly necessary to introduce one of these laws. When it comes to moving with the help of a guide dog, of course it applies primarily to the blind and the impaired but also to other persons with disabilities. I would point out that there are really a number of studies about this, so what many have experienced already, which are healing and really therapeutic facts that come from direct contact with dogs, and that in this way definitely reduces the feeling of anxiety, the feeling of depression, any fear, to increase the pleasant feelings, such as the feeling of friendship, warmth, the connection to that dog. The most important thing in this way is a strong positive effect on raising the level of confidence in people with disabilities. So it acts on their desire for socialization and their possibility for socialization, and therefore for their interaction with society, which is certainly the ultimate goal and what is most desirable of all. This is something that has been recognised by a number of states in the United States and Britain for several decades, and it's been going on for decades. Then, in many countries of Europe, it is also a practice that exists greatly. Recently, countries in the region started the practice, first Croatia and later Montenegro. I am glad that Serbia will soon become one of those countries. Otherwise, this bill very precisely defines that all persons moving with the help of the guide dog have the right to use all means of public transport as well as all facilities in public use, while not coming into the situation they have been in so far, means unpleasant situations, that someone determines whether their dog guide has the right or does not have the right to enter the means of public transport or any other object. So, to be practically at the mercy of someone, which I think is very wrong, and that's why I think this law is very good. What I think is also very good and positive is that there are criminal provisions. It's about fines, of course. So, who are such that someone will think better about whether to go deaf about new legal provisions. At the very end of my presentation, I would like to point out that this process of work is to improve the position of persons with disabilities in society and their empowerment, that there should be a continuous and continuous process and that there should first be work to raise our awareness. In this direction, we need to understand that it is not about people who have special needs but rather about people who have exactly the same needs as all of us. So, the need to work, to school, to make money for themselves, the need to heal, but in that process, some things are much harder for them, so they need to make an extra effort to do things that we understand for granted. So that's why I think this law is very good and that we have to keep telling ourselves that these people are constantly facing various obstacles, so that one of the obstacles is not our prejudice. I think that it should work all the time, that there should definitely be education involved, and I think that the sooner and sooner the children need to start learning what it's important to respect all human rights, to respect the importance of banning any form of discrimination. Once again, I am very pleased to see that our Resolute Ministry has a good and active principle when it comes to sensitive matter. Of course, the SNS in the voting day will support both this bill and the proposal for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of France on social security.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24151	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, as an MP, I will support both of these laws because they are human and just, in particular, a law that enables the weak to use the guide dog, which is a pain and trouble for us who are getting weaker and weaker, when we can't just read something, when we forget our glasses, then we see how much trouble and trouble. I'm going to express my dissatisfaction because this law was not passed during the rule of the former regime, because today we have had major objections to this bill by those whose love for the disabled usually lasted to the ballot box. I'm going to talk a little bit about the political circumstances in which the law is passed. Now there is no election campaign, there is no reason why today's government is investing in some way and wants to gain some political points pre-election. So there are no sources or pre-election points that want the power of the disabled or some political party to win. A team should rather appreciate this law more than that it was passed at some pre-election time. I will give an example, that between the two rounds of the election, the former regime, or party of the former regime, has concluded in Vojvodina with the Association of Persons with Disabilities of the Vojvodina Agreement that disabled people in the second round are voting for Boris Tadic. Also, on 16 April, as far as I know in Subotica, various associations of people with disabilities have decided to support DS in parliamentary elections, and Boris Tadic in both the first and second presidential rounds of the election race, so I believe that their love, their humanity to the disabled who suddenly appeared, was about when they ruled down love for the ballot box. They did not have dogs to guide the weak-sighted, they had about their own political guides that led the disabled to the polling box and voted for them, in such a way to obtain a certain amount and a certain number of votes. In this respect, the political circumstances in which the ministry has proposed this law should be appreciated and therefore I will vote in favour of these two laws. Speaking of moving with a guide dog, the White Stick association is also mentioned here, usually with a guide dog and a white stick, I fear that those who today show a certain amount of humanity and are complaining to us today on this law, that instead of being disabled, they should have a guide dog and a white stick, in their time, their economic policy, their own actions, their authority, they left not a white, but a beggar stick to the whole people. In a certain way, we all became socially disabled, therefore, and we need a lot of these other social security laws, given that they only broadcast rights, and no economy was raised so that these social rights could be monitored. They left 400,000 people out of work. They destroyed completely, devastated the national economy of the Republic of Serbia, and with full right, I can say that today the highest noise is being made by those who left the people a beggar stick, the people are being told fairy tales, and they've built a castle, they live like a fairy tale today, and the people live like a bass and thanks to them, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24153	We've exhausted the list of speakers. Does a member of 96 want to spend his time? The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24154	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, representatives of the ministry, for the sake of our citizens and for the sake of the public, I would like to say that we have experienced today's criticism of the proposed amendments to the proposed law. The person who criticized her did not favour the Committee this morning at 9 o'clock, with his presence that everything that was disputed and possibly some constructive proposal, yes, and suggested. At the very least, it is incorrect to speak so today and to disobey the obligation, because if you are a member of the Committee, then you should attend the Committee's session. The Committee on Labour is, one good committee, the Committee is open to all good, constructive and proposals and solving issues, so I don't think it's really correct to speak in this way. If we have any good suggestions, and of the 10 amendments, 5 are legal editorial nature. The amendments proposed by the opposition mainly refer to the replacement of words – the competent minister, i.e. – the health minister or the labour minister. Therefore, not a shred of what the previous opposition speaker was talking about, which is a constructive proposal and constructive amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-19-0.u24155	Thank you. No one answers for a word on this basis anymore. I am concluding a joint principled single search on the drafts of the law in points 5 and 6 of the agenda, which means that we meet the conditions to discuss the amendments to this law tomorrow as well. I thank the minister and his associates until tomorrow. Just a moment, let me say to the minister, you are not at 10, but first to amend the draft laws of Minister Vujovic. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Board You have received the conclusion of the Government, which is proposed to the National Assembly by Prof. Dr. Dragan Mitrovic, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as the Report of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government on the examination of that proposal. Before the search opens, I would like to remind you that the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 203. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a hearing on a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. Does the Committee's rapporteur ask for a word? No, he's not in the O.R. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No written reports, no oral applications. I am concluding the search on a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the proposal. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the General Court in Panchev. You received a proposal for a decision submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 18 March 2015. Before opening a single search, I would like to remind you that the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. As I can see, there's no application. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Is anyone answering for a word from the MPs? There were no written reports. Does the proposal's representative want the word, Petar Petrovic? No, he's not in the O.R. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a motion for a decision, in general, in the day of the vote. This is what we've done today's work. Tomorrow at 10:00, we're discussing amendments to the first set of laws, and we'll discuss amendments to the law, Minister Vulin. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today, the sessions were prevented from attending: Suzanne Spasojevic, Zarko Obradović, Mirjana Dragas, Vesna Besarović, Branka Bosnjak, Vladimir Marinkovic and Mladen Grujic. We are moving to the first item of the agenda – the debate on amendments. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly attend, at my invitation, Dr Dusan Vujović, Finance Minister, Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary, Vesna Hrelac Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, and Milovan Milovanovic, Director of Money Laundering Prevention, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management, Predrag Aleksic, Head of Customs System Department, Milunka Milanović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Money Laundering, Milka Živanovic and Jelica Trninić Šišović, Independent Advisors at the Department of Customs System and Marina Nesic, adviser at the Ministry of Finance. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
