ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38300	Good afternoon, everyone, I hope you've all got the material that's at the session today, but I'm doing a brief reminder but it works and I just want to put a few things out of this reasoned proposal that you've got. On 2 June 2015, the High Judicial Council also announced a choice for the President of the More Court in Panchev, the General Court in Panchev and the General Court in Prokuplje. In the process of proposing candidates, the High Council first educated the panel to elect the president of the courts with the task of carrying out checks on submitted applications, to determine their completeness and well-timeliness, to hold talks with the candidates and to assess whether they meet the conditions for the presidents of the courts. All candidates have submitted short biographical and work data and work programme, i.e. in this programme, their vision of the problems of the functioning of courts and their ideas and innovations so that they can remove and repair it. The opinion of the session of all judges for all candidates who have applied and the court from which they have applied for has also been obtained. The Commission held talks with all candidates and, on the basis of the VSS report, proposed to the National Assembly one candidate for each of these courts for which seats were advertised, with regard to the Law on Judges and Decisions establishing criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence, dignity for the selection of judges and presidents. For the President of the Supreme Court in Pančev, we propose Stanko Simonovic, she is the judge of the Supreme Court in Panchev. He's currently acting as president of the court. That court has eight judges, and only this candidate signed up. Stanka Simonovic was born in 1956 in Latin, Lika. The University of Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1979. The judicial exam was passed in 1981, followed by a working relationship at the Panchev Municipal Court as a judicial assistant. She was elected judge in 1983 at the Panchev Municipal Court, where she acted in litigation. The Panchev district court was elected in 1998, acting as an investigative judge and a juvenile judge. By decision of the High Council, at the end of 2009, she was elected Judge of the High Court in Panchev, which she has been performing since 1 January 2010. In September of 27th 2013, by decision of the National Assembly, she was elected acting President of the Supreme Court in Panchev, and was elected president of the General Court in 2014. On March 20th, 2015, the president of the General Court in Panchev, and by the decision of the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, was appointed on March 23rd to serve as the High Court in Panchev. At a session of all senior court judges in Pancheva, she received unanimous support as judge and v.f. with a long life and professional experience. The High Council of the judiciary took into account its results as judge and president of the court, and in particular had regard to the objectives and measures presented in the work programme. The candidate for the President of the General Court in Panchev is Jasmina Petrovic, judge of the General Court in Panchev. There's only one candidate here. The court has 27 judges. Jasmina Petrovic was born in Lazarevec on 8 November 1955. The University of Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1978, passed a judicial exam in 1980, after which it established a working relationship at the Panchev District Court as a judicial assistant. The resolution of the government in 1984 was appointed Judge of the Municipal Crimes Authority in Panchev, and was elected as Judge of the Municipal Court in Pancheva in 1988, where it acted in civil, labour, family and economic matter. By decision of the High Council, at the end of December 2009, she was elected judge of the General Court in Panchev, which she has been performing since 1.1.2010. It also continues and acts now in civil matter. By a decision of the President of the High Court on 23 March 2015, it was appointed as the performer of the court's functions. Jasmine also has unanimous support at the session of all judges. In the opinion of the session, it also meets the conditions set out in Article 12. Decisions on expertise, training and dignity. In particular, they point out that she has great life and work experience, moral and professional qualities, that she has shown good organisational skills and great ability to lead the court. She has a fantastic relationship with colleagues and court employees. That's what they're saying. She was particularly prominent in working with interns and volunteers and was hired as a mentor at the Judicial Academy. He has certificates on the possession of special knowledge in the field of child rights and criminal protection of minors, and has completed a course for protection of rights against alarmers and is an active participant in all consultations and seminars organised by the court and out-of-court institutions. The candidate for the President of the General Court of Prokuplje is Ljiljana Radivojević, judge of the General Court in Prokuplje. The court has 20 judges, registered for this ad six candidates. Of these six, we chose Ljiljana, i.e. the commission proposed to the High Council, Ljiljana Radivojević, because he is the judge with the longest experience. She's the best person to show what she can and can do. She was born in 1964 in Kursumlia. The Faculty of Law of Nis University graduated in 1992. The judicial exam was passed in 1994, followed by a working relationship at the Municipal Court in Kursumlia, at the post of assistant. As judge of the Municipal Court, she was elected in 1996. She acted in an outsider, then in a criminal substance. By resolving the High Council of Justice, in 2003 it was transferred to the Municipal Court in Prokuplje. In that court she welcomed this new appointment at the end of December 2009, and was then elected to the permanent judicial office of the General Court in Prokuplje, which she has been performing since 1.1.2010. She got the support of her colleagues. It fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 12. Decisions on setting criteria, and for all three candidates, the High Council of the judiciary particularly appreciated the results achieved in the work, the special results of which the VF presidents had left in their organisational capacity in the courts they were in, and particularly the impression that the candidates had made before the Commission. These were all the criteria by which we chose and proposed to you these three candidates for these three courts. Now, about the judges we have proposed for the election, which are first elected to the judge's office, counterpart Tomic will briefly present to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38301	Thank you. The word is Miroljub Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38302	First of all, I'd like to welcome the President of the Assembly and the People's MPs in front of the VSS. We are here today to present to you, as well as to the public who is following this direct television transmission, and to explain the proposal of the VSS concerning the choice of the first judicial office for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, the Court of First Instance in Backo Palanca and the Court of First Instance in Vrbas. On the basis of Article 47. The Law on Judges, the VSS has called a contest for the election of 12 judges for the New Sad General Court, two judges for the Basic Court in Backo Palanca, two judges for the Vrbas General Court. In the process of proposing candidates for the selection of judges, the VSS is based on Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS, as counterpart Ivić said, educated the commission whose task was to carry out a review of the applications submitted to the ad, to determine their completeness and well-timedness, to hold talks with candidates who applied for the election and to assess whether the candidates meet the criteria for the election criteria. When it comes to the competition for the election of judges for Novi Sad, I can only inform you that 211 candidates have applied for this contest, and only for the first competition, for five Judges for Novi Sad, and for the other seven Judges there are 190 candidates. A total of 69 candidates have applied for Backo Palanka, while 73 candidates have applied for the Vrbas General Court. In total, 543 candidates applied to these three competitions. The High Judicial Council held a conversation with over 500 candidates. You will surely agree that it is an extremely large number of candidates with whom the interview was held, but on the other hand, I am sure that you will agree that it is certainly important that, in addition to the results of the work, the biography of the candidates, in addition to the assessment of their overall engagement in the courts so as to give a certain impression in a direct conversation, and that we could give a final assessment, or final proposal to this Assembly on who might be elected to the significant judicial functions. On the basis of Article 13(3), The VSS law suggests that the next candidates should be elected to this National Assembly. The fact is that you have received this proposal and the materials, there are certain biographies and certain recommendations related to these candidates, but we believe that because of you sitting in this National Assembly, because of the public who listens and monitors this television broadcast, but also because of the candidates who will perform these significant functions tomorrow, I think we should also say a word about the candidates, that is, what defined us to propose them and what we think they stand out for these other 400 and some candidates who have also submitted applications. So for the election of the basic court in Novi Sad, we propose Bašić Tamar, who was born in 1978, who finished law school with the success of 9.66. She worked first as a lawyer's intern, then worked as a judge's assistant at the Main Court in Novi Sad. She passed the judicial exam in 2005 and later established a working relationship at the Novi Sad Municipal Court as a judicial assistant, while since 2010, she has been working in the Supreme Court to call a senior judicial associate. He won a scholarship from the Government of the Kingdom of Norway to the most successful students in the Republic of Serbia in 2000, and was also a scholarship student of the "Employer" humanitarian fund in Novi Sad. The High Council of the Court of Justice, when proposing this candidate, was particularly aware that when a session was held by all judges of this court, Bašić Tamara was second on the ranking list by the number of votes received. The next candidate is Velja Shana, who was born in 1977. The basic studies ended with a general success of 8.00, followed by a traineeship at the municipal court in Novi Sad. The judicial exam was passed in 2004, followed by a working relationship at the Municipal Court, now the Court of Justice in Novi Sad, and since 8 March 2010, it has been deployed at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. What is very important for the results achieved in 2012, 2013 and 2014, this candidate has been assessed with the highest score, which is the assessment "in particular to be highlighted". The next candidate is Dakic Dusan, who was born in 1983. Studies at the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad passed with a general success with 9.21 average. He completed second-degree graduate academic studies on the general course of the legal and scientific field with an average score of 9.00. First, he started a traineeship at the municipality court in Novi Sad, then headed to the Supreme Court in Novi Sad to work as a judicial assistant in calling a judicial associate and later in calling a senior judicial associate. As the sole representative of the domestic judiciary, he successfully completed professional practice in the High Court of Hamburg in 2013 for three months in German and English. The candidate, Knezevic Milan, who was also proposed for the primary court judge in Novi Sad. He was born in 1983. Law school finished with an average score of 8.28. He also graduated second-degree academic studies with an average score of 9.00. First, he started working at the district court in Novi Sad as an intern and then founded a working relationship for a certain time at the judge's office and then continued to work in court. The judicial exam was passed in 2009 and since 1 January 2010, it has been deployed in the Civil Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Otherwise, for the results achieved, a colleague named Knezevic Milan was evaluated in 2012, 2013, 2014 with an estimate – particularly prominent. In particular, the High Council of the Judiciary had in mind that, when the session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad was held, Prince Milan was second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. The candidate Pavlovic Jelena was born in 1978. She finished law school with an average score of 7.30. The court passed in 2006. The call of a judicial associate was made in 2007, and in 2008 the appointment of a senior judicial associate. For the 2013 and 2014 results, it is estimated by the evaluation – in particular it stands out. In the opinion of the session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, it meets all the conditions laid down in the Law on Judges and Provisions of the Decision on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills, dignity for the selection of judges and president of judges for the selection of judges for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Gruber Ana's candidate was born in 1980, she graduated from law school with a general success of 8.53. First, she started a traineeship at the district court in Novi Sad. She passed a judicial exam in 2011, followed by a working relationship at the place of judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Grubor Jelena, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal, was born in 1972. She finished law school with an average score of 9.48. The judicial exam was passed in 2004. She continued to work in the judiciary, and since 1 January 2010, she has been employed by the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad at the workplace of a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate. Also, she received the highest marks for her work in the previous three years, and the participant also received a number of seminars. The high council of the judiciary particularly noted that, when a session of all judges in Novi Sad was held, Grubor Jelena was second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Candidate Eremin Djordjevic Vesna was born in 1977. She finished law school with a score of 7.76. She started working in courts, first in the District Court. The judicial exam was passed in 2007. The results were also assessed with the highest score in 2012, 2013 and 2014 – particularly prominent, and since 1 January 2010, she has been employed by the Court of Appeal as a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate. The candidate Jakovljevic Tijana was born in 1980. She graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad in 2004 with a success of 9.07. The judicial exam was passed in 2007. It established a working relationship in the judiciary, and since January 2010, it has been deployed in the primary court in the work of the Department of the Court of Justice, where it performs the work of the subparol of the court. As for the other candidates, the High Council of the Judiciary particularly assessed the place that the candidates took on the lists, i.e. at the very statement of judges who appreciated their work, so the High Council had in mind that, at the hearing of all the judges of the General Court in Novi Sad, Jakovljević Tijana was second on the ranking list by the number of votes received, and in the opinion of the session of all Judges of the Higher Court in Novi Sad, was the first on so-called. The rank list. The candidate Kozlin Maria was born in 1983. She finished law school with a general success of 9.35. She also graduated from second-degree academic studies, which ended in 2009 with an average score of 9.80. The judicial exam was passed in November 2010. He is a member of many seminars organised by the Judicial Academy. According to the Director of the Judicial Academy, candidate Kozlin Maria, since 1 December 2012, since she was a colleague of Mary's, has been working in relation to the Judicial Academy, where the beneficiary of initial training is trained and worthy of performing judicial functions and is aware that by his work and conduct he must protect the reputation of the judicial call and work intensively with his personal example on his promotion. Myir Branka was born in 1964. The Faculty of Law graduated in 2000, then worked at the Municipality Court in Novi Sad, and then passed a judicial exam in 2004. In the Court of Appeal, she has been employed since January 2010 in the affairs of a judicial assistant, and for the results achieved in 2012, 2013 and 2014, a colleague, Majir Branka, has been evaluated with the highest score – it is particularly noted. By the way, at the hearing of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, Majir Branka shares the first place in the number of votes received. Milić Žabljac Slobodanka was born in 1979 in Vrbas. Law school finished with an average score of 7.23. She passed the judicial exam in 2006, and continued to work in the judiciary until 2010 when she was taken over by the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad as the secretary of the court. By the way, when a session of all the judges of the Court of Appeals is held, Milic Žabljac Slobodanka also shares the first place in the number of votes received. So these were candidates who were proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary in the first election for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. When it comes to two candidates for the election of judges at the Basic Court in Backo Palanca, the High Council of the Judiciary proposes to elect Michael Tijana, who was born in 1982. She graduated from law school with a general success of 8.67. The judicial exam was passed in 2009, followed by a working relationship with the Violation Council, and since March 2010, she has been employed by the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad as a judicial assistant. It was also evaluated with the highest marks in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Prentović Marko was born in 1983. He graduated law school with a score of 9.32. The traineeship began in 2007. He passed the judicial exam in 2009, and since 1 January 2010, he has established a working relationship in the Court of Appeal, where he is working today. For the results of the work, it was assessed with the highest marks, and the High Judicial Council, when proposing to elect this candidate, was particularly aware that, when a session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad was held, Prentović Marko was third on the ranking list by the number of votes received. We have two other candidates left, which we have proposed for the Vrbas General Court election. This is Radić Mićo, who was born in 1979, who graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad with a general success of 9.1. First he began to work as a judicial intern, then from September 2006 to June 2007, there was a standstill working relationship due to his colleague's departure to serve the military term, and then to continue volunteering in this court. The judicial exam was passed in March 2010, so he started working at the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, and since August 2010, he has been performing the affairs of a judicial associate in the citizens' department of the Great Court in Novi Sad. By the way, 67 civil rights synthesises in the court practice bulletin of the Court of Justice in Novi Sad for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. A colleague was also evaluated in the previous period with the highest marks, which is the assessment – particularly the one that stands out. Finally, the second candidate for the Vrbas General Court was Hromis Daniel, born in 1979, the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad with an average of 7.76. After regulation of the military obligation, he first started working as a judicial intern of volunteers, and after a judicial examination in 2008, he continued to work as a judicial assistant at the Municipal Court in Vrbas. For the results achieved during the period 2012, 2013 and 2014, the highest assessment was assessed as being "specific" and, in the opinion of the Court of Justice of all Judges of the Court of Justice in Vrbas and the Council of all Judges of the Higher Court in Sombor, meets all the conditions laid down by the Law on Judges and Provisions of the Decision on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges or the President of the Courts. So from these short résumés we see that these are extraordinary candidates and just to say, you could probably conclude for yourself that the average rating of all these candidates is close to nine. That most of them, or most of them, have completed master and other seminars, i.e. professional courses, that all for their work have been evaluated with the highest grades in the previous period, and that they have received the best recommendations from their colleagues since they are at the top of the list when the judges who were otherwise able to appreciate their work directly. I can only say that neither the VSS committee nor the VSS itself was easy to choose from these 500 and some candidates, or propose these 12 or a total of 16 candidates, because besides these candidates proposed today were indeed other extraordinary candidates and I can say that VSS has all of them apostropheeded and I'm sure they will find their place among the judges at one of the next competitions. This is because I am sure that not only is the wish of the VSS or only of you who are sitting in this Assembly Hall today, but I believe that all citizens of Serbia come to these responsible functions with quality, professional, security, moral, and in such a way as to make the judiciary more effective, and I think that the choice of these proposed candidates will contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38303	The word is Petar Petrovic, rapporteur of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38304	Madam President, the honourable representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at first I should say that the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly to accept the proposal of the VSS and that these candidates for whom the representatives of the VSS have now given comprehensive explanations were elected as judges of the General Court in Novi Sad, the General Court in Backo Palanca, the General Court in Vrbas, and that the candidates proposed for the Presidents of the Higher Court of Justice in Panchev, the General Court in Pančev and the General Court in the Cup were elected to those functions. By estimating the work of the VSS, the Committee felt that all the proposed candidates deserved to receive the trust of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the biographies you could hear yourself, it was seen that it was the exceptional candidates who were working in courts where they had been given high marks for their work, and we of the Committee felt that it should not be a dilemma for candidates to be elected judges who were first elected as candidates for the presidents of the courts, because they were lawyers, judges who had proved themselves professional, fair, worthy and moral, and deserved to be the presidents of the courts for whom they were proposed. I therefore ask all MPs, distinguished colleagues and colleagues to unanimously support the proposal of the VSS and the Committee on Justice and to elect these candidates as judges who are first elected for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, the Court of First Instance in Backo Palanca, the Court of First Instance in Vrbas, and to elect the Presidents of the Higher Court in Panchev, the Court of First Instance in Pancheva and the Court of First Instance in Prokuplje.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38305	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38306	I thank the chairman. Fellow judges, distinguished representatives of the VSS, it is no doubt that your proposals for the holders of judicial functions will have support from the parliamentary group of SPS, above all because of the biographies of candidates who are respectable on the one hand, and on the other hand, our belief that your work is a product of one objective approach, respect for the criteria you adopted and that the predominant objective of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is to be the best in judicial or judicial posts. We are convinced that you chose you best. What should be said and as a kind of message in front of citizens is already when we talk about the election of judges in the seats of the president of the Pancheva courts, senior and primary court, as well as in Prokuplje, that will finally come to the goal that the citizens want, the judiciary expects, and this is that the Presidents of the Court will not only respond to their task in the organisational sense of words as presidents, but that they will have the courage to be significantly stronger, significantly more intense and significantly more often, and these situations have, in such situations where there is a need to initiate procedures for the resolution of judges who are either unworthy or because of other failures in the work do not deserve to perform that judicial function. Why am I saying this because mostly in courts there's so-called. false solidarity, because they are tolerated, because the presidents of the courts do not respond to these failures, because there is a situation where we have judges who do not have a solution to the inflow of cases, but have a huge number of cases on hold where a huge number of judgments are pending at the preparatory hearing in civil matter. So the quality of the work of these judges did not look at and focus at all in a way that merits criticism, but there was a degree of tolerance that was unacceptable. That is why the reputation of the court in which these judges fall, the fact that the judiciary itself loses, causes adverse consequences, because it violates the right of citizens to trial within a reasonable period of time, and we have passed the Law on the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time with consequences that involve compensation for damages. That is why these proposed today, and I am sure that the proposals adopted by the candidates that the VSS has no doubt proposed for the presidents of the courts must bear these facts in mind, as well as all other presidents of all courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Only in this way will we restore the confidence of the citizens in the courts, only in this way will the courts, to use a pedestal term, to cleanse those who really do not deserve to carry out the tasks of the holder of the judicial office, only in this way can we establish complete legal certainty, allow citizens to have access to justice and justice and achieve what our goal is, and the goal is to have an elite judiciary. This sounded more like a criticism, and it's actually a matter of fact, of facts that can't be doubted. Of course, this is not a picture of the court and the courts and the judiciary as a whole, but it is a picture of something that exists and has to be rooted out, at least where really these parameters that I have pointed out and exist, and even situations where judges are chosen for more courts don't always come to terms with it quickly, but rather there is a suffocation because these judges receive a number of cases and then, regardless of their respectable results in first-degree courts, it can never be excluded that this process of adaptation or non-compliance sometimes takes much more than expected. What I also want to point out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, as well as as as a colleague who is extremely well-intentioned towards his colleagues, is that he is also strictly concerned with the financial aspects of the work of judges and courts. The High Council of the judiciary in its own hands, again pesoriously, has all the financial attributes to determine the financial situation in the judiciary. What is hinting, and I hope that will not happen, is the abolition of certain rights of judges who have been recognised to them by both the provisions of the Law on Judges and certain legal acts relating to those rights. It is primarily about the rights of judges who have been elected to several courts, second-degreed and third-degree and one of their fundamental rights is the right to compensation for a separate life. This right in the process of full rationalisation and financial consolidation of the state must in no case be abolished, nor reduced, as it would thus destimulate judges from the interior to compete in the appeals courts, the Supreme Cassation Court, etc. Why am I saying this? Because of the need to prevent one phenomenon that exists as a possibility, which would be dangerous, which would be the Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac or Nis would be stimulated to compete in these courts in such a situation. That would be inadmissible given that there are a large number of judges, as are today's candidates and the proposals we are facing today and that we are considering, which would be applied to several courts in due course. What must also be taken into account is the constitutional right of the judge to retain his place of residence and residence, and to perform a judicial function where he is elected by his own qualities, according to his expertise, by his own knowledge, and especially by what their associates, their colleagues, are fellow judges, or judges. All of this, of course, represents a very well-intentioned suggestion, all of which is, of course, just one of our additional stimulants and the initiative that courts do in the best possible way, that the degree of efficiency be at that level that citizens expect from judges and courts and that what is our goal, and that you have presented it yourself, that in the most responsible places they are the best and the best quality. I thank you if, in this entire representation of the situation in the judiciary, you have recognized the same problems that we have identified in the SPS parliamentary group, that you have recognized the same facts that we are facing from the beginning, to be personal, from certain problems that can be recognised in practice, and I am the one who in practice, given that I am connected to the judiciary in some way can identify them. If that is the case, then we are on the right track, on a unique path towards a common goal, and I am sure that together to achieve what the citizens expect from us, and that is why the SPS parliamentary group points out that in the voting day, all the proposed candidates will be supported, that we will vote for these candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38307	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) In fact, the word wants an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38308	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the VSS, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is my privilege to be a representative of the parliamentary group and an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, as the SNS will also say, which is behind the view that we fully support the work of the VSS. I am happy and satisfied and as a folk MP that I can in a peaceful atmosphere, where there is no affair, where there is no objection, where there is no newspaper inscriptions, where there is no pressure on you to choose, where none of us know almost any of the lawyers, and you listed their biographies. None of us have ever contacted these candidates. We've left you as an expert body to carry out the selection of these people, these graduate lawyers with the passed exam that you proposed to us today. Be assured that in the day of the vote without a great deepening, control, we will review what you have given us to vote for all your proposals. We won't ask for the exemption of any candidate. For these four years since the SNS has been in power and since one political atmosphere was created, in which you have complete freedom as a VSS, I am sure that only once, in only one case, we have asked for an exemption and we have not voted for your proposal, because we have used our right as MPs to know that there is something that is unworthy to be in a position to take advantage of it and we have not given a vote to just one candidate. How many candidates we have chosen for these four years, and that no sign of either before the National Assembly session, nor after the National Assembly session, confirms that I am absolutely right and confirms that what you did will be known to be appreciated and that you have one hearty support from us. By 2012, absolutely nothing like this had happened. There was a lot of influence. There were no criteria. There were no criteria on the basis of which judges are elected for the first time, who are elected on a permanent basis. There were no criteria and criteria for selecting the president of the courts. The criteria and criteria were membership in a party, closeness with the president of the municipal or city board of DS or some of the parties in power. Letters and opinions, bar talks, agreements, mixing under the grain. Simply, all the candidates were in fear. All the candidates were afraid of who had a better relationship, who had better contact with the ruling party. They didn't look at each other's qualities. They weren't looking at college successes, passed a judicial exam, the way they worked in the previous period before they ran. That's what you're looking at right now. That's what they're looking for now, and that's what the general court sessions in which the candidates, directly senior courts, are about, so all the judges in the territory of one county, and now the high court. These opinions came from professional people, from people who were able to look at and watch their work every day and we come to the result that almost all the candidates you propose are told by the general session of the court in which they work and directly by the higher court – they are particularly prominent. It's especially said that they come to work before everyone else, they leave after everyone. That means they're interested, that they're hungry, that they work every day, that they thrive every day, that they do probably more decisions and much more jobs than others do. This is shown in the vote, when these general sessions co-determine which candidate amongst the more elected ones. You chose people who were first, second and third. So, even you didn't interfere as the High Council of the Judiciary in who would be elected. Of course, at the end of the line is your decision, but obviously you respect these criteria, obviously those criteria that are prescribed by the decision that you can know exactly who is qualified, who is professional and who is worthy. Who better to know than the people in the middle where our candidates work and live years back. Today we are choosing, or we will choose in the voting day, but today we are discussing choosing judges who are first elected judges of the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, the Court of First Instance in Backo Palanca and the Court of First Instance in Vrbas. You pointed out in the opening statement that there were over 500 candidates in all these courts and candidates, of course, for the presidents of the courts, in Panchev the Greater and the Basic and the Cup of the Basic, and that just shows that freedom from the fear of all these candidates. They, therefore, know that they participate in a fair and fair game where the rules are known in advance, where the result is known, which is quality, and they know that we as politicians and we as the ruling party, and here I mean especially the SNS, we do not interfere with the choice of judges, we do not interfere with the choice of the President of the Court, nor do we want to interfere. We don't interfere with the work of the judiciary, we don't comment on any court decisions. Yesterday we heard that someone here was judging, discriminating, criticizing an unfair first-degree verdict, calling it a disgrace of the judiciary. One MP commented on the court's decision delaying the execution, i.e. the start of a prison sentence. We've heard everything here. What is particularly important, we will never affect judges, we will never comment on decisions, because our influence is not as it was until 2012 of a party. Unfortunately, it is obvious that some members of that party think that the time has not changed, that criminal proceedings can be ordered, that criminal charges for meaningless matters can be filed, that there may be affairs in the newspaper and that, based on what is written in some commissioned newspaper, the ordered text can produce a criminal procedure just like that. When that doesn't happen, then the leader of a party invites the prosecution to initiate the procedure, because, my God, there is evidence. Even a law on protection against freedom against fear has been proposed. It would have been good if that law had been passed and it had been valid until 2012. If there was a law on freedom of fear of DS for all judges, for all prosecutors, for all the presidents of the court, this would be very important, they would be relieved, they would be freed from fear of deciding in the Nickish mechanism who would be the president of the court, who in the famous 2009 judicial reform would be the judge, who would not be the prosecutor, who was close to someone from the DS and who wasn't, who was rejecting criminal charges and who was working against the interest of this political organisation. If there was that law then, the situation would have been different. That's why I want to go back to what you suggested. You have proposed judges who are first elected, 16 of them and what are marked things, for me, and I believe for the other MPs, is that it is about judicial assistants. They're all judicial assistants, they're all defined as justice, they've all made a decision to be part of the judiciary, to make decisions on behalf of the people, and now they're left with their wish to show up at the university, and they've had very high grades, I see there's a lot of those who, at 8, 9, 9.5 average, finished colleges, passed a judicial exam with a mark, got a "particularly prominent" from their colleagues, probably in front of the commission that you've formed, in the interviews they've done in the best possible way, showed all their knowledge, eloquence, their position, how they'll improve the work they're going to do. I expect that we will choose all these people and give them the opportunity to make judgments and act in the name of the people. What's also remarkable, of the 16 candidates proposed, 11 are members of the better sex, 11 are women, and five are men. My question is, do women in Serbia take justice into their own hands? Of course, this is a joke, I use the opportunity to congratulate all of them in advance, knowing that in the day of voting we will choose them, to wish their careers were long, to show their expertise, to be selected for these three years of this trial work, under the circumstances, to show knowledge, to show expertise, to show dignity, to then be elected to permanent functions for judges. I would also mention that you made a proposal for the presidents of the courts in Pancheva, the Basic and the Higher, and in Prokuplje. Their biographies are also impressive, they proved to be valuable in college, that they proved to be professional, that in their careers, which very rich did much to improve the judiciary in the parts of the state where they worked and lived. They are also probably in their plans and programmes that they have made and where they have identified the problems in these courts and the way and the criteria to be addressed, taking into account the decision to propose these candidates to us. Also, that is very interesting, the President of the Supreme Court in Panchev, the President of the General Court in Panchev, the President of the General Court in Prokuplje, is also a woman. I don't know who in the High Council of the Judiciary is weak on ladies, but obviously we will have a large number of women who are both judge presidents and who are judges and who, of course, show the will to take justice into their own hands, who have their own justice, who feel and want justice in Serbia to be on a high level, to respect legality. Therefore, in the voting day, the SNS will support your proposal and we will decide to elect these judges and we will choose these presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38309	Thank you. We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38310	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, the respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the honourable MPs, the undersigned citizens of Serbia, let me begin by telling the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a brief but happy news. Dear citizens, the Republic of Serbia has taken 59 of the 189 countries on the World Bank's business list. That's even 32 positions better than last year. This is the best score in the last nine years on the World Bank list. I repeat again -- this is the best score in the previous nine years on the World Bank list. It is a great recognition for our reforms conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38311	Mr. Atlagic, please, you have to fit that into the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38312	I'm going back, just for the sake of telling the citizens, this is for our future and for the future of our citizens and for the future of our children. The President-in-Office of this proposal for a motion for a motion for the election of judges for the basic court in Novi Sad, Bačka Palanca and Vrbas, as well as a proposal for a decision to elect a president for the Supreme Court in Pancheva, the General Court in Pancheva and the General Court in Prokuplje, has its own foothold on the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he submitted to us to the MPs in this high house on 27 April 2014. And, let us not forget in one sentence, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, is the most transparent, precise, most concrete, the biggest 52 densely typed sides and the best of all 72 previous exposés of the government since the time of Prime Minister Prota Matija Nenadovic, 1805 until today. In the exposé of the Prime Minister on page 44, I quote -- yet the main goal we set is to restore the confidence of Serbian citizens in its judicial system. It's a finished quote. Gentlemen, the MPs have no confidence in the judicial system without the choice of better quality and worthy judges. So today we are discussing 16 candidates for judges who are first elected to office and three candidates for the President of the Court. This is about 16 excellent candidates for judges who are first elected to court office. That they are truly excellent candidates, speaks in addition to the average rating that the candidates achieved during their studies at law schools as one of the criteria taken during the elections. Of the 16 candidates for judges elected for the first time in eight candidates, the law schools with an estimate of more than nine, four candidates through a score of eight and four candidates over seven. All 16 candidates received an evaluation for the traineeship -- especially the one that stands out. What I think is very important, which is that the Commission of the High Council of the Court of Justice for Elections has carried out a review of the applications submitted for the ad, established their well-being and completeness, held a conversation with candidates who were first elected judges and gave assessments, whether the candidates met all the criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, because we did not have this in the earlier period until 2012. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that our courts have been more efficient in the last three years, every year since the ministry was led by Mr. Nikola Selakovic. This also shows that most of all the ministers in the Serbian government appear here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am sure it will be in the future. Our courts, upon the arrival of Mr. Selakovic, were found in a desperate state from unremembered scandals in the staffing of judges and the exorcising of judges to unbalanced and criminal acts, the judiciary rocked like a falling building. Some judges, you know very well they died of injustice or committed suicide, and during the former regime, something unseen happened in the history of the judiciary, during the party's former regime he chose a dead judge for the late Ljubisa Djuric in Požega. The president of the High Council then told the judiciary, Ms. Nata Mesarovic, that all candidates were well-checked and that the High Council of the judiciary translated 200 hours and elected judges. I don't know how she only checked the dead judge. I note, that the frames are taken without criteria, not like now. One judge at the Belgrade District Court was not re-elected as a judge although she was among the top five judges because he allegedly was a husband, but this lawyer, ladies and gentlemen, worked as an investigative judge, reached a first-degree verdict in the case of Curuvija and defended Goran Knezevic. But that is why the High Council of the judiciary and the Assembly of the former elected Sonja Brkic, who violated the Law on Judges, because she also served as president of the RIK. The judge's law expressly forbids it. It unlawfully took RIK's two million 673 thousand dinars in 2008. She refused to pay that money back. Unfortunately, it was done by former Minister Malovic, but I must say that she returned the money. I have a mass of these examples, but I'm not going to go further, and let me just point to two examples, two choices of judges. Judge Vesna Konstantinovic, judge of the main court in Novi Becej, was placed in two places at the Basic Court in Zrenjanin and the Main Court in Kikinda for the former parties, the former regime. In two functions of the former regime, Zorka Petric also appointed a judge at the primary court in Prijepolje, and in the primary court in Prijepolje and the primary court, imagine in Novi Pazar. The judges are now more efficient, even in 2014, last year compared to 2013 for an entire one-four percent. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an excellent result and respected representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary in view of the circumstances followed by the work of the courts in 2014. I'll give you four circumstances. A new network of courts has been restored, and you know it very well. Serbia's defence chamber has decided not to take part in a trial that lasted four months, unfortunately, dishonestly. Thirdly, the shorter the involvement of lawyers, we also had in June 2014. And the fourth full capacity courts in Serbia did only six months in 2014 but achieved more results for one whole four percent in 2013. Allow me not to burden you more for 2014 but to say that the appeals courts have also found that criminal courts, as well as the administrative court, have made between 25 and 50% more cases than in 2013. But, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, they weren't burdened with protesting lawyers. Now imagine you who supported the strike of lawyers what you did for the courts and assisted the courts in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I call on you gentlemen to vote for these honourable and congratulated candidates, especially you from a weak opposition, to vote for these honourable candidates, because at least a little, even in this way, you will give your contribution to reforming the judiciary and modernising Serbia for which the Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, assisted by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, the largest number of us MPs in this high house and the largest number, I would say, Plebitarian citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38313	I thank Dr. Atlagic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38314	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs, first understanding for you, chairing that you had an understanding for some colleagues who obviously mixed up the papers today, because the debate on candidates in this part began a little earlier, probably than they expected. When it comes to the proposals of today's candidates for judicial functions, it can be said that it is about younger people, people between 30 and 35, especially judges who are first elected to judge functions and that it is about the presidents of courts who have experience behind them working in court. In that part, it's possible that we might agree with the grades you've given here. I would agree with the assessment of the situation in the judiciary carried out by my esteemed colleague Nedja Jovanovic. I hope that as his party colleague, Mr. Ruzic will not have to apologize afterwards, first of all, to the president of the party in power...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38315	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't mention the MPs, focus on the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38316	I wanted to draw attention to young colleagues, judges who would be elected to the judicial office that the judiciary was expecting on the first day they entered the courtroom. They are expected by a judiciary in which drug dealer Cristian Golubovic, who was previously sentenced to 14 years in prison, has been reduced to eight years, is the main media figure in Serbia, on TV often hosted by the prime minister of the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38317	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38318	I'm quite on the subject, much more than all my predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38319	We have candidates on the agenda, we have their biographies, you can comment on the candidates and the situation in the judiciary, but not in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38320	The judiciary, which unfortunately is not what colleagues had said before to take matters into their own hands, as they said. It is not the matter and justice that is taken into its own hands, but the law, or the Constitution of the Republic, is applied without the influence of the executive authority. Taking justice into their own hands is anarchy and those who spoke earlier about taking justice into their own hands no matter how we explain it, does not lead to order in the legal system, does not lead to division of power into legislative, executive and judicial, which is threatened. Young colleagues should know that they will have a problem with this, that they will have a problem, that they will probably have pressures, that they will have the pressure to act as the will of an executive authority, or the will of a man, to make such judgments because it prejudges judicial proceedings. Advertises innocent people, people who aren't even meant to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38321	Mr. Veselinović, I beg you, for the third time, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38322	I'm in the dark absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38323	Maybe it's for your colleagues around you topic, but as chairman, I don't think so. The MPs are also rightly defiant and I ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38324	Can you guys...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38325	As I warned Mr. Atlagic, so did you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38326	Yes, you took away a quarter of my time, and I wanted to say, do you, Mr. Tomiæ, feel uncomfortable when you read these days and watch what happens in the judiciary? Do you feel uncomfortable when you have to raise your hand to choose the judges you yourself know will be pressured? Do you feel uncomfortable when the main media personality is a person who's been sentenced to eight years in prison because of the violence of holding arms and trafficking in heroin? Do you, Mr. Tomic, feel uncomfortable and does it seem to you that there is no legal system in this country that does not rule the right, but rather the will of a few people who keep the whole country in... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38327	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. (Dragan Nikolic, from the post: Replica, the party president is mentioned, and I am authorized. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Nikolic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38328	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know why they voted for SNS in 2012, all of them know why they voted in 2014, according to counterpart Atlagic, almost plebiscitarian for SNS, whose list bearer was Mr Aleksandar Vukic. They saw a new perspective, saw a desire to change the economic environment, to change Serbia's international policy and position in the world, to change finances, to settle the budget for the first time in 30 years, and we will not have a rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We've put order in the judiciary, given the opportunity for colleagues, judges, prosecutors to choose the best among the best, that from 500 and some of the candidates you've had, we get to these 19 esteemed and respected colleagues and I say, it's past the time when it was possible to influence the election process of judges, and that was until 2012. A period passed and someone cried for the period apparently, when it could have affected prosecutors, judges, when they were in custody because someone was a political opponent, because there was a danger of getting someone out of power, then it could have been ordered. Those relapses were left. Yesterday we had comments and today we have comments on the judges' decisions, but not from the SNS bench, but from the DS bench or those from which they came out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38329	Time, thank you. The word is by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica of Mr Veselinovic's presentation. You're mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38331	I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Jovanovic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38332	I thank the chairman. Of course, I asked for a replica, although there was a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you responded to with the right, and as far as I'm concerned, personally, it certainly won't cause any attention because it doesn't deserve attention, a team before my presentation from the very beginning was extremely professional, extremely responsible, and it was exclusively about the agenda point, or the topic. As always, the SPS parliamentary group is never used by day-to-day political stories, phraseologies, insinuations, nor will it be used in the future. I have absolutely no single problem that even after this attempted abuse, anything that is done here, and especially the abuse of my exposure which has been tried to be used for the daily-political purposes and for the collection of daily-political points, I remain in the same position as the entire parliamentary group of SPS, which is the support of you dear colleagues from the High Council of the judiciary, which is why you have proposed the best candidates, which is why I have presented the reasons why we choose to vote for these candidates that you have proposed. Personally speaking to you, I don't think he deserves an answer, and you judge for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38333	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38334	Thank you. You have injured Article 108 in the first position that the order at the meeting of the National Assembly is the old President of the National Assembly, after having, as your discretionary right and your decision is indisputable which cannot be the subject of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 104 and having concluded that the first and second positions of the basis have given the replica to the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Why did you hurt the Rules of Procedure? Because the MP received a replica and replicated someone from the DS, with no one from the DS having a word during the assembly session. I ask the People's Messengers not to receive, and most kindly please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38335	Please allow Mrs. Comic to complete the exhibition...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38336	... to do your job, which you did, so... Dragan Nikolic, from the scene: The same is all, she did not shut her mouth while I was talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38337	I beg Mr. Nikolic not to throw. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38338	So, I do not dispute at all, it is your discretionary right, and I would like you and other colleagues to know that it is the discretionary right of the chairman to give replicas, but you had to, listening to the replica of the MP, warn him that he is abused his right from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that he is replicating DS, where no one in the DS in this part of the session has reported for the word. Whether or not the People's MP is pictured by the Democratic Party is his private matter. He has the right to do so, but he has no right to break the rules that bind us together from the Rules of Procedure and to benefit from the replica right, and has invented that anyone from the Democratic Party has said anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38339	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I apologize if I interpreted it in a way that Mr. Nikolic spoke to Mr. Vesenovic, as a former member of the Democratic Party, who left the DS and spoke about the past time, about the mandate of the DS when he was a Mr. Vesenovic member of the DS. I apologize if I interpreted such an address in such a way, only to Mr. Veselinović, and I did not interrupt Mr. Nikolic. If I understood that as you understood, if he were talking to you, I would certainly have done it and interrupted Mr. Nikolic's exposure. Thank you. The word is Dejan Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38340	Dear Chairman, let us, however, when someone mentions the Democratic Party, we interpret how we understood it. Yeah, it's pretty boring mentioning DS by who knows which time. It's true to mention people who are no longer in the DS. What kind of argument is that? Someone used to influence. Who and when did he influence? Go ahead. This is a replica. Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38341	You have no right to a replica. You're the one who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38342	I've answered the line, five times the Democratic Party has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38343	Are you authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38344	I'm the deputy chief.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38345	You have the right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38346	What more is that argument? Someone once influenced someone to choose someone? What is this debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Tell me, who? If you said who, you'd see that he's no longer in the Democratic Party. If you know who. If you say someone from the bar did something, say who? Because when you say who sent it, you'll see that these people are now in a coalition with the SNS, who on local television the other day praised for their participation and what they did in the bar, where they sent these famous e-mails. Let it go - someone's guilty of something. Tell me once who's to blame and what's to blame. And when does your responsibility start since 2012, since when are you in power? It's confusing what you've been saying. I believe you're tired of celebrating, opening a trapo station in Belgrade, as a top investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38347	Mr. Nikolic, please, it's not a subject of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38348	I'm done. One more thing. You said that a large number of ladies are elected presidents of the court. He may be weaker in a gentle sex, but they're chosen because they're capable and not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38349	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Time's up and you can't talk. The word is Mr. Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, just this -- you're probably giving me the right as chairman to interpret what someone's exposure was about? Here you go, Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38350	With regard to Article 27 and with regard to Article 104, Mr. Chairman, since you are looking after the application of this Rules of Procedure when it is not the chairman here, will you, in future, continue the session, when you chair, allow the mention of the Serbian Radical Party to be given the right to replicate Serbian Progressive Party MPs? Just do the reciprocity, parallels, or whatever you want. I'd like you to explain that thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38351	Mr. Veselinović, I didn't understand you, and I don't think any of the MPs understood you. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38352	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored guests, I'm advocating Article 106 in relation to article 108 and Article 109. Namely, it's about throwing it away. Mr. Chairman, you have two standards. You warned Mr Nikolic twice not to throw away, and before that we were witnesses, we who were here in the Assembly, that Mrs Comic had been shouting and throwing for a minute. Mr. Veselinović did the same, and for more than one minute. You didn't even warn anyone, and you're under obligation to prevent a throw that was permanent, that's article 106. You were obliged to warn them, to warn them and to give the measures set out in Articles 108 and 109, since it was Mrs Comic, who was so cruel as she chaired during the rule of the party of the former regime, when the party was one party and was no longer party. So it's not our fault that this party split into several camps. At the time, she was considered a Democratic Party, and I think the party is still called the Democratic Party. It's not our fault. Therefore, you should apply the measures set out in Articles 106, 108 and 109, since it is the uncut vice president of the National Assembly, which has severely punished such a kind of throw-off at a time when the government is a party that we no longer know its name. When they're expelled from Kronska 69, I suggest they drive them to Schiller's and have their pool together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38353	Thank you. I believe that I have not violated the Rules of Procedure and those measures that you mention are the most extreme measures that we, the chairman, wish not to express. But in case we can't do something else at the session, we have to do it. Thank you. Does anyone else want a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word is from Mr Dragan Nikolic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38354	Mr. Chairman, when I spoke of the ladies who will be elected judges, who will be elected presidents of the courts, I spoke completely affirmatively, these are all MPs in this assembly who have not been maligned and Serbian citizens can hear. Extracting from the context of a sentence, or a half, or a third of a sentence, and commenting does not serve the person who tried to impute that I said so. So, expertise, training, dignity has led these ladies to be proposed by the VSS on a proposal from the Commission to conduct an interview with them, and based on the decision and vote of the general session of the courts in which they worked, or directly senior courts. That's what I said, it can be seen from a stenogram. How much damage was done to Serbia by reforming the judiciary, which affected all the choice of judges, the way 900 may have been the best judges and prosecutors not elected to judicial and prosecutorial functions, should not be rated as MPs, the Venice Commission said – a disaster reform of Serbia's judiciary in 2009. For that year and at that time, the responsibility of members of the DS from whose ranks was the minister, who is now in another party or third party, is to be written. I'm not some biographer who's going to put together who's the party he was in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38355	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38356	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the VSS, I support today's proposals, as well as today's candidates, but I don't know why the previous speaker, when I say the previous speaker, I mean the previous speaker who was in the order of the list, it bothers that someone is young and that someone has, perhaps by his criteria, little years for running for one of these functions, so on several occasions in his speech, he said that these are young candidates, how are 30 to 35 years old? I'll remind him that he was young once, too, that he once had those years that he obviously disputed today, but he didn't mind being also a candidate for some political functions that he didn't quite, by the way, be told to celebrate, but we're not talking about it right now. I can't go over what's been said about the state of the court, so some pressures and stuff have been mentioned. Please, I think that they have the least rights to speak about the situation in the judiciary, about the pressures, because if you look at how the government, then the government, when it comes to 2009, 2010 and those years, when the previous speaker was a spokeswoman of the ruling party and he didn't mind when they made secret lists and when they did everything that was just a little while ago and respected by the authorised representative of SNS Mr Nikolic also mentioned this disastrous reform of the judiciary and that assessment by the Venice Commission. So what we're saying now is we're not talking because we're members of one party, so somewhere on duty we're attacking another party. The Venice Commission found that the reform of the judiciary in 2009 was disastrous and that re-election of judges and the damage caused by it. But let's see how they did it. The DS municipal leaders evaluated judges and prosecutors, declared them indisputable or radical, so the judges based solely on those assessments and the elected ones. Adherence to a ruling party was one of the basic criteria during the 2009 re-election of judges and prosecutors. But such an assessment has so far been only principled, which could be heard in the performances of European observers or oppositionists. The document, which the Society of Judges delivered, clearly shows that the established lists of judges are, for example, in the Municipality of Vlasotince, which best illustrates the whole state of the court then. The candidates, for example, are characterized as the impertinent enemies of the DS. These candidates, of course, have not passed the re-election. And that letter was extremely significant. It was very important during the re-election, because everyone the DS praised in the end was re-elected, those which DS did not praise in that letter, they were not re-elected. So this is an obvious example of what criteria were in place back then. It is particularly interesting that Mitov and Šusulić, therefore, president of the DS municipal board at the time in Vlasotinc, placed the document on the stamp and the party, but also the seal of the Municipality of Vlasotince. So it's just amazing. The way it looked, we'll hear it now. I'm not gonna mention names on purpose. One candidate for the municipal court judge in Vlasotinc, therefore, who has been the president of the court since 2000, and now says – he broke between the DSS and the DSS, overcome the current interest, and considers the DSS to be, in principle, respected, but non-communicative and unrequited, he deserves a chance. Well, then for another candidate, also for the municipal court judge in Vlasotanc, says – a sympathiser, a DS member's wife, honest, valuable, on the other hand unsuspected, ten years back provides all legal assistance to the municipal board of DS in Vlasotinc, probably the best in court, ambitious, deserves to progress, interested in a judge in Nis, undeniable. Well, then for another candidate, he says -- withdrawn, quiet, valuable, probably honest, experienced, withdrawal, sympathy, and not to read everything now, it's the same thing when it comes to candidates for public prosecutors in Vlasotanc. This is the best example of what the situation of the judiciary was at a time when they exercised power, to which low branches led the judiciary in Serbia. Today 2015, we have a situation where one MP who was a spokesman and also such a party, who directly or indirectly supported all of this, in the meantime, joined another party, and joined the other party, and now has a member of the other party, and now has one of them whether it is a movement or a group of citizens, Mr Risticevic knows well whether it is a group of citizens or an association or as it is called, and now he respects us. I'm really upset with what I heard. For all these reasons, I want us to reject all these criticisms as unfounded completely, which they are, and also support today's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38357	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dejan Nikolic, a replica. It is the said DS, but in the context of the previous speaker. I don't see you mentioned, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38358	There's a lot of people here who are overly upset, consterned, etc., by some people's decisions. That's good. We had a few names here. These people I know aren't in the DS. These people are in the coalition with the SNS. These people were praised at the press conference a few days ago, just those people you mentioned now, for contributing to local politics. Yeah, the easiest thing to do now is get out of the O.R. when you get a counterargument. They weren't good in 2008 and 2009, but they were good in 2015 when they had to raise their hand and build most of the SNS in Vlasotanc. What are the more arguments? It's a boring story, which only serves to fill minutes in the National Assembly here. Give me some arguments. I have no intention of defending the 2008 justice reform in 2012, but the people you mentioned are in a coalition with the SNS. I don't know the authenticity of that letter, but why is it different than joining 600 unselected judges in the SNS and then returning them to court positions? Where does that differ? It's as scandalous and as scandalous as that letter, if it's ever been sent. But of course you don't think to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38359	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dragan Nikolic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38360	It was mentioned again by the SNS and again in a negative context, that the judges were members of the SNS, and then we returned them to the judicial functions. It's just not true. By reforming or breaking up the judiciary in 2009, the DS directed 900 judges and prosecutors remained on the street. They're covered as the worst. Many died of grief and misery, many retreated into themselves, many families did not go out into the street because of the city they lived in and the environments from which they spoke all the worst of them without any evidence. There is a story in Serbia, when you say someone - works for the police. Neither you have to prove that he works for the police, nor he can prove he doesn't work for the police. So these people were sewn together -- they worked with criminals, they're like this, they're like that, and in fact, there was only one thing that mattered in their re-election, or not, which is that they weren't close to DS. The Constitutional Court's decision was returned because the re-election was unlawfully carried out, because the President of the Supreme Council, now called the judiciary, was elected before any of the members were elected. It's like the president of the National Assembly was elected before we verified all our mandates. This was the reason why the Constitutional Court ruled that the complete 2009 election was illegal. That's why the Venice Commission declared a catastrophic reform of the judiciary...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38361	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38362	Just one sentence. So they were returned to their jobs by law, they were returned by the Constitutional Court's decision, which you obviously do not recognize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38363	The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38364	Dear colleagues and colleagues from the VSS, I listened with great attention to the references of the judges who were first elected, i.e. they were proposed to elect for the judge's office, as well as those of those colleagues who were proposed for the election of the President of the Court. What do you say? All congratulations to all the proposed candidates, since their references are truly very impressive and talk about the fact that they are extremely qualified people, who have already put a lot of effort and work into building their personality from the aspect of the profession, and I am sure that they will follow themselves and that this will be good for the future in the work, and that daily learning will further improve their personality, because only by learning each one of us, by any profession to deal with, can be promoted and successful in this matter, especially by lawyers, given how often the matter is changing from this area. I am also happy that the candidates proposed for the first time, since coming to the power of the Serbian Progressive Party and its Prime Minister, Aleksandr Vukic, have been given the opportunity to be elected on the basis of their knowledge and experience, moral and organisational skills, and not on the basis of party membership. If this had been the idea of leadership in the election of judges before, we would not have, under the precepts, what is called in the people everywhere "defying justice", litigations that have been conducted for ten, 15 years or more, outdated cases, and what is carried with it by enormous costs, not only for participants in the proceedings, or parties in the proceedings, but also for the state, as well as a huge number of proceedings before the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. Therefore, all praises and congratulations to once again proposed candidates, as well as to the prime minister who, in co-operation with the president of the state, Mr Nikolic, made the way for party employment in all segments, including the judiciary, and great support to Minister Selakovic and the restoring ministry, because he really needs to correct the chaos in which the judiciary was found. Thanks to the irresponsible policies of the former regime, which led this ministry and the judges placed solely on the basis of party belongings, so many have strayed into the judiciary and others have tried, and today they judge to repay themselves for their appointment. From everything out of the blue, in the day of voting, I will support all the candidates proposed, and I hope that all my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38365	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, Mrs. Vukoicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38366	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable High Council of Judicial Council of Associates President, the Serbian Progressive Party will certainly support all proposed candidates who are first elected to serve as judges, as well as the proposed candidates for the presidents of the Higher and Basic Court. For this reason, first of all, because the election procedure itself was carried out in a transparent and clear way by the High Council of the judiciary, first by publishing in the "Official Messenger" and in the daily "Politicals", then a commission was formed by the High Council of the Judiciary, whose task was to verify the timing and completeness of the applications submitted. The commission also obtained an opinion and held an opinion from all judges of the basic and senior courts in which candidates should take office, i.e. candidates are elected. Also, the Commission has conducted an interview, which we also find very important for the selection of candidates, especially since you have already pointed out that, when it comes to judges who are first elected to the judge's office, there have been 500 applications submitted and, ultimately, that you have adopted your opinion in accordance with the law and in accordance with the decision on conditions and criteria for the qualification, expertise and dignity of the judicial function. As for the candidates proposed for the Presidents of the Supreme Court in Panchev and the President of the General Court in Panchev and the President of the General Court in Prokuplje, I must point out that what is characterized by their biography is a huge life experience and work experience in courts, which is also a good prerequisite for the efficiency of the court in which they will be placed. I must also point out that in their plans and work programmes, they have identified the difficulties facing the basic and senior court, they have proposed solutions for how difficulties can be solved and have proposed ideas to improve the work of the courts, or to improve the efficiency of the court. As for candidates who propose for the first time to serve as judges, and it is 12 candidates for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, two candidates for the Vrbas General Court and two candidates for the Basic Court in Baška Palanca, I must point out that from their biographies it is more than obvious that the judicial assistants who have completed the primary court in Vrbas are high averages, that there are judicial assistants who are constantly educated and perfected in various areas that are actually both matter in judicial work. I have to notice that there are younger candidates with a certain knowledge of foreign languages, but with the knowledge of the language of national minorities, which I also consider to be the quality of judges who are first elected to a judicial function, as well as to possess knowledge and skills relating to computer technology. All in all, I expect that the proposed judges will best contribute to further improving the dignity of the judge's office, as the judges enjoy and the judge's office enjoys a great reputation in our society. I hope that the presidents of the courts, and by their work, will contribute to the quality of the work of the courts, and one of the characteristics that I have otherwise recognized in their biographies is an adequate communication relationship with court employees, which can also be a good prerequisite for good quality and efficient work of courts. Of course, apart from the efficiency of the court, we are assessing and we believe that these judges will first be interested in citizens, that the availability of justice will be swift and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38367	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38368	The judiciary is the most important in one country, and we as a state are hardly able to praise the quality of this government, not only today, but in a longer period of time, but not to go back too far, surely in the last ten years we cannot be completely satisfied, nor are we particularly satisfied with what happened, regardless of who was most in power, reform, semi-reform, matchmaking or whatever was going on with the people who were supposed to be the bearers of the third branch of government, is not proud of this country or this profession. Of course, first of all, I mean the guilt of those who decided about it. Of course, among the judges, most people who deserve to do this job, who are honorable, who are honest enough to be able to perform that function, but it's enough to make a small infection in one well, so that all water is polluted and at least that's the impression. I think it's something that marks some other segments of life in our country. Can that change? Of course it can change, and it is primarily responsibility for you from the High Council of the Judiciary and of course MPs who have one part of the responsibility in selecting judges. I don't want to talk about candidates. It's your choice. It's your responsibility. Of course, responsibility is also on the chosen ones, who will be chosen, because everyone should rely most, and each one measures his personal responsibility for the job he does himself. In Article 145. Serbia's constitution says judicial decisions are made on behalf of the people. And that's quite enough for anyone who's right, who's in the judiciary, to be his strongest criterion in his work. He makes decisions on behalf of the people, not on behalf of either party, or in court, or in parliament. Not in relation to someone who is currently in office, political or other, but in the name of the people, and that responsibility is something that should not allow anything to happen that would be called an extenuating circumstance for the participant "Farme" or "Cantrimen" case or the "Asumaum" case or hundreds of cases that mark years and years behind us. That's gotta stop. In article 149, the judge is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law. To whom it is not clear, there is a statue in front of the Palace of Justice, where the Emperor Dushan holds the law above him. Any influence on the judge in the performance of the judge is prohibited, and anyone acting as judge should be warned if anyone has tried to exert any influence on him. These are sacred rules, regardless of what we are in the 21st century and the more we call for other values, rather than those religious ones, I agree that these other values are much more important. But it must be a rule of conduct for every participant in any public work in the state of Serbia, especially in the area of justice. Of course, the responsibility of that level is for politicians, above all those who are currently in power positions, but of course the opposition that must be good control every day, responsible control of what the government is doing. Judges shouldn't have party features. They are people like everyone else, they can have their own political attitudes, but without using it in their daily work. Therefore, I hope that these people we choose today for the first time, or who will be elected for the first time to judge, will be the pride of the Serbian judiciary and the president of the courts and judges who are first elected and that Serbia will have a much better judiciary in the future than it has now, a much better judiciary and we deserve as citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38369	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we choose 16 new judges and this is a real refreshment given the thousands of judges who perform their duties. I must say immediately that I am not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary and I think that the new judges should also be aware that our laws have become a spider through which large flies pass, and where little ones are caught. Without a judge, I mean, first of all, the new judges of the law are empty. What are empty laws worth without applying? We have a desire to carry out justice as a majority, but without judges, we don't have power, because they were selected by someone bad in 2009. These candidates should be aware that our citizens say that for 99% of our people, our citizens are not dangerous laws but judges. Not often, the judges and prosecutors who judge the guilty are worse than the ones they're judging. These candidates should be aware of the justice that our courts and many judges share, that this justice is often more severe than injustice. The co-operation between judges and perpetrators in Serbia is impeccable, as if they are working on a percentage without any connection with justice and justice. These candidates need to know that some judges and some judges, some judicial units are almost private property of law offices, and judges are just executors. Some judges are more and stronger party activists than those in the parties that delegated them to courts in 2009. They're still judges of their own parties. The new judges should be aware that what the judge can do if the guilty party should be prosecuted in Srem, the godmother of the republican prosecutor who is from Novi Sad's Higher Prosecutor's Office in Mitrovica whose primary task is to guard the former regime's vice president, Goran Jesic. Expecting to be prosecuted by his party's prosecutor and convicted by his party's prosecutor is like expecting a hot Sahara to cool off the floating iceberg. Some courts and judicial units, which these candidates need to know are almost just the mere departments of law offices ordering verdicts very easily, like pizza and burgers. The real role of justice is that no one harms an innocent, that the guilty may be punished. Today you have opposition examples of political gromads who proudly speak of the fact that despite many of the affairs of the country's fundamental corruption by members of the former regime's party, executive misdemeanors in the alliance with various cheaters, secikes, that he has reached little judgment or no verdict. Judges need to know that there is a saying in the people “what is wise to be ashamed of... “ I don’t want to talk any further. The fact that many convictions have not been made is not proof of their innocence, but evidence of more of their guilt. Blames not only for the time being unpunished, but also guilty of poor reform, deformity of the judiciary, departiaryly defined members of the former regime's party in court uniforms should judge their party bosses, mecens, often protruded by intimate and close relatives' ties. The new judges need to know as soon as you criticise something in the judiciary, they start calling for a world of judicial independence. Independent of what? Judges and prosecutors, no matter who they are, should be independent of the law, but of the crime. Unfortunately, with us, many judges are independent of the law, and very dependent on crime. It's in the courts to determine the truth. It wasn't the truth that was being determined in court, it was the price and the tariff. For many decisions, we should not have asked why, but because. You shouldn't have asked how, but how much. With bribed, corrupt, party-colored parts of the judiciary almost publicly and without shame, they mock the ministry, the government, the Prime Minister, the presidents of the courts and our people, I am obliged to pass it on to new judges, that until at least 10 cells are filled with corrupt and bribed judges and prosecutors, we will hardly reach justice and justice in this country. The candidates need to know that more than bread our people, the poor people, the fired and underpaid want justice. He wants to punish the masters of transition who have turned everything that was ours into their own. Instead of all of us having everything, now everyone but them who rides the white seas, because we don't have ours, we have in mind that ours, not ours, is the poorest, have the right to live, to freedom, to safety and the right to justice. Justice for everyone. If the break of the former regime has not protected many of the poor, we must not and should not protect the rich, those who have turned them into poor, and who have taken on in a greedy and criminal way, in their misfortune and torment, have made them rich. Who needs to determine what happened over the past period with the state, its capital, its money, the court and judges, and these new judges, that the guilty are properly punished, and that the state and its property are returned to the people who own their own country. The state must put an end to crime and injustice and bad justice at all costs, otherwise crime and bad justice will put an end to the state. Congratulations to the candidates who will be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38371	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the distinguished guest, Mr. Tomic of the VSS, I would like to make a few remarks about, I think, a very important topic that we are discussing today, and first of all, I would like to make an apology to Mrs. Ivić, because in my opening note, I think rightly responded to one situation that we had here this morning when we discussed the biography of candidates and candidates we were talking about, there was no attention from a large number of MPs, and I think it is okay that, although I was listening to your reasoning, I apologize for having attended such an event. But I have one regret for you, Mrs. Ivić. What do I think? It seems to me that such an important opportunity should, not only should, but it should happen, that we should take this opportunity to discuss the candidates we choose, for example, on a private path to a judicial post, or in the case of Pancheva, for example, the president of the courts, I think that debate should be used, and here you should, I think, do so, to remind the candidates and candidates of the importance of the functions they will be elected to. Those must be the people who are following this debate today. If I were those candidates, I'd certainly be watching this debate with great care, and I believe that these people need to hear one more kind of reminder of what kind of function we're going to choose from. I think the subpoena is a sacred invitation and that precisely because it is such an invitation, these people need to hear again what they are going to do, and what the expectation of us MPs and citizens and peoples, as Mr. Zivkovic said, of their actions. Mrs. Ivić, I think, with a reminder that I apologize for the situation, that it was necessary and that every time we have a topic like this on the agenda, it is necessary that all these people on this occasion on a day that is safe for them, we remind ourselves of Article 4 for example of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I find necessary, gentlemen. Article 4 states, among other things: the regulation of the government rests in the division of power, legislative, executive and judicial. We often say and that's true, this is the third branch of government. Look, Article 4, as it goes on to say: the relationship of three branches of government is based on balance, mutual control, and then in a member dedicated to one of the great principles of power-sharing, the judiciary gets a special position, and I think these candidates and candidates we're talking about today, they need to hear it one more time, and if they sure do know that. But to stress the importance of this subject, in attitude 4, the court authority is independent. I'm asking these candidates and candidates, all those things that have been said, whose biographies in cartoons have been announced here, to hear once again what kind of invitation they'll be dealing with, gentlemen. Or we have a member of 149 who was quoted in one part by the MP, Mr. Zivkovic, and I have to remind here once again, of both positions of this member of the Constitution of our Republic. What does article 149 say? It says - the judge is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law. Not at all, this is now my addition, the will of any individual, any group of people, any political power of any individual, or any group of people, bound to themselves. I think, gentlemen, it's important that we point to these candidates and candidates this way, what will be their job. Or, in the position of Article 149, he says - any influence on the judge in the performance of the judge's office is forbidden. It's a message to us. It is a message to politicians that no matter what power they rule they must never allow themselves to touch, to influence in any way in what is the work of a judge or judge, gentlemen. Mrs. Ivić, I found it appropriate to discuss this in this way. I hope you agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38373	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to the representative. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Do I have five minutes left, sir?) No, your time has passed. Mr. Babic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38374	I'm advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, section 107, Mr. Chairman. It's healthy, it's acceptable, it's good, sometimes when a mistake is admitted and an apology is made and I don't see anything wrong with it, but I saw a bad one, and I saw a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly when a colleague of Pavicevic apologized in someone's name. On whose behalf, Mr. Becic? On your behalf? You were present this morning and when the National Assembly session began and when colleagues from the VSS explained the subject matter. Did he apologize for me? I was there. Did he apologize on behalf of his colleagues from the SNS who gave the quorum for the start of the session, and may I remind you that today, for the beginning of the session, it took 86 MPs? Mr. Pavicevic could only make an apology in his personal name because he did not insert a card for the start of the session and thus eroded the reputation of the National Assembly. He could have made an apology in his personal name because he was never present when voting on legal proposals or even on his amendments, so he could make an apology on his own behalf. Don't make an apology on behalf of the SNS, on behalf of the ruling coalition, because we are here to sit in parliamentary benches from the beginning to the end, to listen to criticism and praise, but also to vote on amendments and legislative proposals, and I don't accept that anyone who works hard and responsibly apologizes. Only it can make an apology on its own because when there is no television transmission or when they end up in these amendments – they are deleted, then they are wiped out, and they can only make an apology on their own behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38375	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since we are no longer registered in the order of the MPs, since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether they want the President's word, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38376	I would just like to respond to the MP who said that this is the place to remind the judges once again of their independence, their independence as the highest functions they perform. We didn't find it appropriate to do so today because that's exactly what we remind them of the solemn oath that will soon be. Then let's all gather together. In front of the president, they're taking a solemn oath. These are the judges who were first elected and the presidents of the court. So it's a moment, and then in a more beautiful atmosphere, we draw attention to everything we have to do, how to behave so as not to tarnish our reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38377	The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38378	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, using my parliamentary right as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I only want to point out in the end something we missed today. In front of you, distinguished representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, let me say - this is part of your proposal that has not been debated at all today. It is the proposals of members of the High Council of the judiciary, i.e. a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. These proposals only confirm what I said on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, that these proposals affirm the quality of the work of both bodies and one and the other institutions, and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Although we in the SPS parliamentary group never, in a pesoriatic sense, bid no names, I must point out the fact that all MPs, including citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should be satisfied, that one is a truly respectable person now, i.e. he will be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary after our support for the vote, and that is Professor Milan Skuljic. Considering his immeasurable contribution, both in the professional sense of words as a professor of law school and in education, round tables, lectures, everything he has done and contributed so far. Of course, the other candidate, who will now be a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice member of the State Council, has the same references and enjoys our support. What needs to be an epilogue, which should be the conclusion of this discussion only confirms our socialist attitude. In order to avoid political elements, to avoid calling the Constitution, constitutional provisions on the independence of the judiciary need to be amended and the choice of judges no longer in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Only then will the judiciary be freed of any politicisation, any ugly impression that citizens can gain after certain discussions from today's debate, only then will there be what we all seek, and that is absolutely independent justice, absolutely independent judges and judges. That is why today is what is said by individual MPs, who have even tried to abuse the discussions of those of us who have co-operated extremely pragmatically, constructively, professionally, only then will we have what we seek. The only thing left to do is to elect the High Council of the Judiciary to be in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Parliament and to have judges select only courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38379	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38380	Mr. Becicu, another violation of Rule 107. Of course, I will not ask the Assembly to declare whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but I will ask these hardworking and correct people with RTS, who cannot, as Mr. Pavicevic, leave the O.R. when they say what they have and without a desire for dialogue, go somewhere else. Please escort that empty place of that man who just apologized to you in someone else's name. I will, in the same way, offer an apology on behalf of Mr Pavicevic, who responded and spoke in the time he had, and after that he left the gym, not respecting the High Council of the judiciary, nor us as the MPs, nor the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38381	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38382	I thank the chairman. You have just violated Article 103, which defines your right to give word to MPs who wish to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the content of the two-minute violations of the Rules of Procedure is clearly prescribed in that article. You gave the right to a word, you did not violate it, but you violated Article 103 by listening to an argument that has absolutely nothing to do with any of the views in article 103. Your duty was, on the basis of the same article, that the MP you allowed to speak, to remind him that the presence in the hall, that the way he qualified fellow Members of the People's Parliament was not in line with the other members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I know very well that it binds us all, and if you look at the quorum-determining register, you'll find my name as 84 at two sessions, when I thought it was my parliamentary and right and obligation to enter the hall to give the quorum. Does the knowledge of what is done in the hall oblige all of us or just me and do you have the right to interpret it in one way, when anyone in any of the parliamentary groups is doing it, because it is in the ruling coalition or is in opposition? Please, next time someone wants to abuse the right to demean or try to humiliate another MP, that's our common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38383	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Babic, after his injury to the Rules of Procedure, spoke for about 40 seconds. Surely in that time I had to allow an explanation of the pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but if you assure me that I, as chairman, have the right to, if I don't like someone's reasoning or I don't like it, that I can break it, did I understand? Do you want the Assembly to declare an injury in voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38384	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure of 27 and 108 have been broken. I just don't know how long it's been in the National Assembly when the true humiliation is spoken, I don't know when in the National Assembly when the truth is spoken it deserves a warning and a punishment. Well, I guess it should be the opposite. I know that the system of values of the former regime was based on some stealth MPs, who voted from Bodrum, so they voted from Thessaloniki, so I know that in time since 2002, in 2003, this way of communication evolved, so he came to the stage when we had stealth homes for carefree children. The money spent on a home for children distracted by development, I'm sorry, directed by Bojan Pajtic, a building destroyed, torn down, without roof, without anything, and money spent. Now those who speak the truth, those who point to anomalies and the work of the National Assembly, but also to anomalies in our society, should be punished. All right, fine me, Mr. Chairman, listen and listen to Mrs. Komic, but I will continue to say that Bojan Pajtić's regime is a criminal regime for which there is no sanctity, and even children distracted in the development are not a sanctity that even in their pockets they don't drag their hands and take away those funds, and leave them ice and unfinished buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38385	Thank you, Mr. Granny. In your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, I didn't think I should interrupt you, because you explained it in the same way as the MP you reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You explained the absences from the session in the same way, if I allowed Mr Pavicevic, I had to allow you to do the same. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38386	Thank you. You have now injured Article 27, because you have, in accordance with Article 103, given the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure in one minute and 11 seconds, if in the previous case you have not arrived in 40 seconds, which I completely understand, you have listened to how the MP in the context of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38387	Mrs. Komic, you point to the same members you pointed to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38388	No, I point to Article 27, before that I pointed to Article 103. I'm asking for your concentration.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38389	Mr Babic pointed to article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38390	I suggest you've violated section 27 during the conduct of the Rules of Procedure's breach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38391	Only I can break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38392	I'm also telling you that you broke it because it's article 27 that you take care of the order in the session. Aging on the order of the session means listening to the MPs. Your argument that you can't in 40 seconds I understand, but in one minute and 11 seconds the MP in the context of an explanation for the violation of the Rules of Procedure slandered, rose up and lied about President Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38393	Mrs. Comic, please, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Please, what is this? ) Mrs. Komic, you have personally warned me as the chairman when I interpreted the Rules of Procedure as it should be interpreted, that MPs have the right to indicate for a period of two minutes on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. When I was two minutes ago interrupting the MPs and saying that it was enough and that I understood what they wanted to say about their injury, about the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you said that I had no right and that I had to let the MPs explain it in two minutes. Now you're telling me I should have interrupted Mr. Babic for a minute and 10 seconds. Arrange in what way we as chairman and you as chairman should also interpret the Rules of Procedure. You have now assured me exactly what my opinion of the Rules of Procedure was that I should interrupt the presentation of MPs when it comes to the breach of the Rules of Procedure at the time when I consider myself to be the chairman of the Council to understand why and in the explanation it was spoken of, which is why the MP reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I thank Mrs. Komic for believing that I was right when I interpreted the Rules of Procedure as such. The word is Mrs. Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38394	Thank you. Now you've injured Article 103 and Article 107 again. I really ask you, I know exactly how difficult it is for you and how much the chairmanship of the work you do really has a problem with understanding from members of his own parliamentary group. So in that sense you have my support for many good reasons. My intention to be with you together, because this is the task of all the MPs I allow to be applied to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is only in that we understand that strict respect for the Rules of Procedure is good for all. If I intervene that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, it is the common benefit of this house, the National Assembly. Your attempt to have a dialogue with me and allow me to say a breach of the Rules of Procedure and to apply the Rules of Procedure is this dialogue that currently takes place, and it was about me trying to tell you that the explanation of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure has its own rules. You probably completely accidentally mixed me up with someone because I firmly hold that we all need to stick to the rules and the law as a drunk record, and if it's a practice that anyone can talk about anyone during the reasons of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure to say whatever they want, I don't think it's going to be a good practice, for anyone. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure strictly and that any of the People's MPs, instead of the arguments that are due under Rule 103, speak a replica or slander, slander, mockery, lie, to make it possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38395	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Does anyone else want a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38396	Mr. Chairman, Article 109 has been injured, but I am asking you not to punish Mrs. Komic because this member defines a reminder to the MP because she used cursing and offensive expressions. I thank Mrs. Comic for standing in the ranks of the MPs who insulted us here, cursing us, belittled us. I thank you for being included in that famous dictionary of abusive expressions and words I hope we will never hear again in the National Assembly. Which is in the ranks of those people's messengers who used expressions such as garbage, scum, cattle, whatever, here we are now, blabbering or I don't know what else. That's good when they show we shouldn't, and I believe after the next election that they won't be able to contaminate us like that anymore. I don't know how long it's been talking about the truth. What did the Regional Government do for children distracted by development? Did she build them an object? Did Bojan Patic give them a place where those children can, where can your parents of children distracted in the development of a gathering? No, he didn't, but that's why he spent, he took whatever expression was used by a million and 2,000 euros through his firm, or his company, burned his loved ones. Now, when you point that out, when you bring a picture, you're yapping. So, what is this system of values? A system of values in which Bojan Pitiæ alone must not be told anything. Just can't tell the truth about Bojan Pajtic's criminal regime, which today unfortunately rules the Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38397	Mrs. Comic, do you want to proceed with the injuries? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38398	I don't want to, but what do I do? Thank you. The injured members of 107, and member 27, were asked to warn the MP to consult the minutes, the stenogram of the National Assembly of the session, the verb was slander. Defamation was a verb, so the MP couldn't slander, mock and lie. It's a slander. What the People's Messenger heard, I don't know. I would never say the verb that he shared with us. I think there's talk in this room and all those who speak I respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38399	Mrs. Comic, that's enough. (Gordana Comić, from the place: Please, I did not explain. That's enough, you said yourself that there's no need for me to let you go for two minutes, that the moment I think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure that I should interrupt you, I'm interrupting you now because swearing is constantly mentioned in the last ten minutes in the National Assembly. You said them, and now I have to finish this debate. He has the word as an authorised representative, MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38400	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as the authorised representative of the SNS, I would like to send a few messages to you from the High Council of the Judiciary, to fellow judges and prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the general public of the Republic of Serbia. You'll always have our support if you keep doing this, and there's no reason for it to be different. You have clearly prescribed criteria and criteria for assessing the choice of judges and president of courts, to determine their dignity, expertise and training. These are the frameworks where you commit, because the decision has been made, and the Law on Judges is perfectly clear. So every time you come to this Parliament and no one proposes, don't object to your decision, we don't hear any candidates say why I'm not me and not anyone else, why this is your proposal, and I'm not me, you'll have our support. We'll never affect you. We'll never invite any of you. We will not meet any of you except to greet you and speak – it is better to choose this or to participate in the whole process at all from the day you call elections for the election of judges and president of the court. I expect that in many courts in Serbia where there are no judges, and believe that there are fewer than there should be because of a large inflow of cases and because we had one terrible period from 2009 to 2010 when many cases remained in drawers because judges were not elected. Those who participated in the process simply delayed the hearings, hoping that they might not be elected, or hoping to be elected, and it was one chaos of a so-called chaos. judicial reform. The Venice Commission said it was a disaster, and that Serbia's budget would pay a lot of damage to judges and prosecutors who had not been elected because they suffered mental suffering for three years because they had to sit at home because of a political decision by a party that reformed the judiciary. Many lawsuits are before the basic courts, many of Serbia's citizens will have to pay for someone's exhibition from the Serbian budget. Also, we will not influence the judiciary, we will never call on any judge, we will not influence any prosecutor or his deputy, we will never call on prosecutors to initiate the procedure, if we have evidence, as citizens, as MPs, as people who deal with a particular profession, we will have the courage to file criminal charges, initiate the procedure, but by name and last name. We won't invite the prosecutor to respond to pointless writings in certain newspapers, which are ordered, these inscriptions are the creation of affairs from nothing based on anything. The law on fear, proposed by one party, was to be passed by 2012, and today I was assured by all MPs of the party who then ruled, who showed complete disrespect for you today. When guests come to your house, you stay until the end while they're here. How do guests feel, and I consider you guests, when the hosts, or people's MPs, after the tirads they performed in this room, simply rise and go. All MPs who have been replicating me today, or the SNS parliamentary group, and not to me, who called the party's president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, are no longer in the hall. They went untraceable, as the head of the Babic parliamentary group said, had fled this hall. So much for their respect, so much for the humiliation that they have caused all of us, and I, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, apologize to you, which there are also such MPs, which there are also such hosts, who instead of staying here until the end, to be concerned about the fate of 16 candidates, for judges who are first elected, concerned about the fate of the President of the courts who are now elected and who will work very responsiblely, who expect them to respect the law, to arrange the courts, they have been wiped out. We from the SNS Group of MPs in the voting day will give support to your decision we will elect these 16 young people as judges, we will also elect the candidates you have proposed on your behalf and on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, and I want them to, as of next Monday, when they take the oath, judge on behalf of the people, and not on behalf of any political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-04-0.u38401	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I'm concluding a joint single search at this point. We're going to point 5. The proposal for a decision to amend the establishment decision is composed of permanent delegations from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions. I would like to thank the representatives of the promoters for their participation in today's session. You have received the motion for a decision taken by National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic prior to the opening of a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for all parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does Proposer Maja Gojkovic want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not have a list of applications for presentation, I conclude a single search into the draft decision. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for this decision in the voting day. I thank the messengers for their participation in today's session. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
