ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Milena Ćorilić, Branko Ružić, Đorđe Cabarkapa, Sabina Dazdarevic, Vesna Besarović and Branko Djurović. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In addition to the meeting of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the request of 224 MPs, you were also sent a request to hold an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in the request. As you could see, Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Serbian Health Council, which was submitted by the Government since 24 April 2015, 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Serbian Health Council, which was submitted by the Government since 24 April 2015, 3. Proposal for a decision on the election of a judge who was first elected to the judge's office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary, as of 25 June 2015, 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of a judge who was first elected to the judge's office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary, as of 15 June 2015, 5 June 2015. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary, as of 24 April 2015, 6. List of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, for a period of five years, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information, from 21 May 2015 to 7. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, since 7 July 2015. National MP Zoran Babic, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Article 92(3) and in agreement with Article 95 of indent 7), has proposed a short period of time for discussion. I am sorry, at the meeting of the National Assembly, to conduct a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the discharge of members of the Serbian Health Council and a proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Health Council of Serbia, as well as a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to elect a judge who is first elected to a judicial office, which has been submitted by the High Council of Justice since 25 June 2015; a proposal for a decision on the election of a judge who is first elected to a judicial office, which has been submitted by the High Council of Justice since 15 June of this year and a proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time in a judicial office, which has been submitted by the High Council of Judges since 24 April 2015; a single search on a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, for a period of five years; a single review of a decision on the amendment of the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly ofSerbia 's Group ofSerbia. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I'm closing the vote. Let me see what we've done. What did you do with the cards, because I have nothing. Please repeat. Listen, this is a vote, and I don't have anything on the screen. Come on, look what's going on. I don't have anything, like nobody voted. I don't know what's going on. Please, listen to me, we're voting on these joint single searches, and then we're going to shorten the time for discussion. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Insert cards and vote on a joint single search as proposed by MP Zoran Babic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, no one, with abstentions, voted for seven MPs of the total attendance of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 192 and 193. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... I'm sorry, this synopsis isn't right for me. Just a minute. Now we've voted first on a joint search, and now we have to vote to cut the debate time in half. I am putting to the vote a cut in the debate, also proposed by MP Zoran Babic. I'm asking the services that are working to prepare the session to pay attention to what kind of synopsis they've given me, as chairman, right now. I hope Mr. Shuput is watching us. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the total attendance of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal as well. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Vinka Kojidinović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Health, on the discussion of the 3, 4th and 5th points of the agenda and Miroslav Tomic, election member of the High Council of the Judges, and Vesna Janjic, an independent adviser at the Department for Status Affairs of the Judges of the High Court Council. But it's people who are preparing a synopsis to know that what I read, it's for the second session. It's a reminder that I've now given to people who are preparing the synopsis chairman. You'd better not see the chaos here, so I'm gonna take you into session a little bit slower. We move to the first two points of the agenda that are united. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to resolve members of the Health Council of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Health Council of Serbia. Does the president of the health minister's proposal want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Just sign in. Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33232	Dear Presidents, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Health Council of Serbia is the most professional and advisory body concerned with the development and quality of the health care system, the organisation of health care services from the health insurance system. The establishment of the Health Council is for the first time foreseen by the 2005 Health Protection Act. The members of the Health Council shall be selected in accordance with the criteria laid down by the law, prominent experts in the field of health care and health insurance, from the ranks of regular professors of medical, dental and pharmaceutical college, representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, President of the Chamber of Health Care Professionals, representatives of the Serbian Medical Society, representatives of the Association of Health Institutions, representatives of health insurance financing of health professionals from the field of public health. In view of the responsibilities of the Health Council established by the Health Protection Act in this professional body, it is of paramount importance, and is particularly reflected in the following – to monitor the development of a health care and health care system in the Republic of Serbia and to bring them in line with European international standards, to propose measures to preserve and improve health conditions and strengthen the health potential of the population. To propose measures to achieve the health care of all citizens evenly, as well as measures to improve the health protection of vulnerable populations. To propose measures for the functioning of a health system based on sustainability and efficiency principles. To propose measures for the functioning of compulsory health insurance on sustainability, economics, efficiency, as well as measures for the establishment and development of other types of health insurance. That he's giving an opinion on enrolment policy at the university and the medical profession school. To give the initiative and propose measures to implement reforms in the field of health care and health insurance. To carry out the quality assessment process of the programme of continuous education of healthcare professionals and health associates and to consider other issues in the field of health care from health insurance and to provide professional assistance to state authorities, organisations and institutions in the implementation of tasks relating to social health care. Given the mandates that the mandate of members of the Health Council takes five years, that he expired all members of the Council elected by the National Assembly in 2009, except for a member of the Health Council of Prof. Dr. Dragan Savic, who was elected member of this professional body in 2011, it is necessary to elect new members of the Health Council. As Professor Dragan Savic said he would not participate in the work of the Health Council, the government of the Republic of Serbia established and submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Health Council and a proposal for a decision to appoint new members of the Health Council. The proposal for new members of the Health Council has been prepared in accordance with the criteria laid down by the Health Protection Act in the process of drawing up a decision on the selection of new members of the Health Council, proposals have been made by all institutions and organisations which are designed by law to propose prominent experts from their ranks for this high expert body. I hope that the newly elected members of the Health Council, taking into account the significant role entrusted with the choice in this expert advisory body, will, as an experience on the work of the members of the Health Council in the previous period, contribute to the development of the health care and health insurance system at a higher and better level. Also, given that the term of office of the members of the Health Council held this post during the previous period was important and the role of the Health Council, this helped the National Assembly to make an urgent decision on the resolution of the members of the Health Council of Prof. Dr. Dragan Savic and the decision to elect new members of the Health Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33233	Is the rapporteur of the committee responsible reporting for a word? Yeah. ) Slavica Djukić Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33234	Dear Ministers, distinguished Professor Vekic, esteemed president, colleague and colleague, I am taking the opportunity in line with the tendency to present the essence here today in the plural, and not to be too long, to speak as a representative, or rapporteur of the Health Committee, and in fact the views we had on the Committee are also fully in line with the views of the SPS Parliament Club, and my presentation will be one and the other. Let me express my real satisfaction that today we show trust in people who, as members of the Health Council, will be sure to apply their advisory and professional function to the Health Protection Act and the provisions of Articles 150 to 154 because it is our obligation that when the Government proposes names, personality, to make known to them today and to choose them and to allow the Council, first of all, to assist in its advisory professional work the better organisation of the health system and, of course, to help us improve the quality of health care. Independent bodies have their autonomy and guarantee that this body will work in a high quality way, resulting from the fact that the promoters were the most reputable institutions dealing with the health system in different ways. Two representatives of the medical school, one dentist and pharmaceutical, representatives of all chambers that are more than relevant for the work of the healthcare system, medical chambers, chambers of nurses and chamber technicians, pharmacists, dentists, chambers of health institutions, all have their proposals here and delivered them to the government. What is very important, those good healthists, especially in the domain of finance and good insurance professionals, are also named here today, therefore, SANU, the Serbian Doctor's Society. These are all guarantees that the proposal that lies before us is such that we can expect that the Council will, in practice, fulfill that role that is so much needed by the health system of health insurance. We have been talking for a long time about health care needs to undergo certain reforms and we know for a long time that there is no reform of the health system without health insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33235	Time, you know we cut to 50% and you have two and a half minutes. You spent two and a half minutes and you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33236	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33237	Thank you. You know, now we've cut all the time to 50%, please, to have that in mind. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33238	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have before us the choice of one important regulatory body, one of the three who are professional and advisory under the Health Protection Act, and one of the two elected by the Government and the proposal of the candidates delivers it to the National Assembly. Therefore, the choice of this body at the level of a personal decision is not envisaged as are the republican expert committees elected by the minister and primarily assisted by the minister in solving certain administrative, technical and professional problems he is facing. This is chosen by the Government, these people, and this means that the important decisions these bodies will make will be important for taking over the health development strategy of health care and development and defining the meaning and direction of the development of new visions and the current improvement of the work of the Health Insurance Service. According to the law, this body has a responsibility to itself, and it is very important. In this place, I would like to say that the body that we are now changing because of the end of the term of office has also made significant efforts, first of all, of the organisational type. To organize himself, to create his own acts, to start working and finally to present problems in his reports regularly. We don't have the last two reports, though, for the last two years, but they're practically not in the mandate this year to report to the National Assembly. In the latest very content report on the 2012 website, they also submitted their observations from the work of their responsibilities. The competencies they are dealing with are very important and very large. Of all the numbers the minister spoke of, let's just single out, the importance of the evenness of the development of the service in the health system. In regional equality, it's a big problem, whether it's even, is or isn't, and that's why the composition, the personal composition of this team, is very important. Whether all regions are equally represented or proportionally or not at all, whether there are other ways to inform the Government and the Ministry about the state of health services development. Of course there are. That's actually what I'm saying, because one of these observations is that I take the Kragujevac regional, for example, not represented, Novi Sad was, but by the will of the professor who wanted to resign so he wouldn't be in the so-called. The new mandate, although I repeat, is a mandate for three members of this council who have been in the council before, simply the law does not limit it, that it is determined how many mandates anyone can have, by his own free will, so that, in the end, if we do not have a representative from our province, we can ask ourselves why, let's say, someone from the region of Šumadia is not put on this list. These things exist. Either he didn't have enough competitive advantages or they kept the facilities that suggested it. However, this does not mean that the health care institution and the health system of the region will be found under unfavourable circumstances, as there are many ways to help, how information can be obtained through various other ways about the importance of the needs and importance of the development of an institution where at least two million inhabitants are gravity. On the other hand, competencies concerning continued medical education are something the former Health Council has presented as a significant problem. They noticed, and it was difficult, because within four years, as far as they were following the development, you had 35, 36,000 reported topics for continued medical, to say non-medically continuous medical, because there is both medical and pharmaceutical, and dental, etc. Such a number of topics, with so few members of the commission covering the direct responsibility of the Health Council, is a big and difficult job, and they really need both technical support and good support of the organisation, financial support, to do so. Certain acts are also needed, and the outgoing council has also proposed several acts to monitor quality and address problems. The problems were very different, from the fact that some of the educations were conducted without classical application, that the points were obtained disproportionately from the importance and weight of the seminar that was intended as an education. That the retrogrades of many schools of continuous education were reported and retrograded points etc., etc. From where I come from, I know that this is going very regular, that the first medical school institution is well looking at every proposal for education and that they are going to the Health Council to propose topics that are accepted, there has never been any problem. But it's not like that everywhere. Are we going to consider whether our principle of education and the way it is, whether it's good or not, how it's imagined then, and when the law is passed, now after five years of spending or six years, we can put it as a subject of consideration and I think it will be something of what it will do in the new term. If you are personally looking at biography, yes, I will not say, because there are also people who have been my teachers, the age range is 43 years to 73 years, which says, and according to the biographies that we see that many of them have been perfected abroad, that many of them have shown in their biographies a large number of professional publications, that indeed some have been engaged in organisational, advisory affairs, that heterogeneous members are guaranteed and heterogeneous multidisciplinary access to the problems they have and that these people in this mandate will have to deal with and that the closer they will then have the same time to dedicate, as the NGO, which they are speaking to them monthly. So, to feel the improvement in this important sector that has been very disciplined and calmly accepted all austerity measures, all depriving measures, provided a high quality of education, a high quality of health services in proportion to what we can do. When it comes to what I am saying, that members of the Council who are staying abroad have acquired really high performances or real ideas about the high possibilities of what is provided abroad, that in one of the powers of the Council, which is the creation of a guide to good clinical practice, they are rational and that Serbia can create such things that Serbia can carry out, that no one is at the expense of the quality of the service provided and that it is not expected to be impossible from our health system that has what it has. I'm also thinking about the health care system and the health insurance system. So, believing that this is the form of a list, I hope it'll be effective. Second, fully aware and directed in the way people from the previous Council did it, especially Professor Dragan, who was president of the Council, because he carried out a great deal, a great burden of work was borne, so I believe that he will have really enough qualified people to do the job in the best possible way. I'd like to say a few more things about the jurisdiction regarding enrolment policy. We've been having a problem with this interaction for a long time, even though we're dealing with the faculty of health professions and what we expect all the time, so sometimes here and before, ministers of education, ministers of health, where this interaction is, why we take too much into medical professions, dental, pharmaceuticals, so those kids are left out of work, and they're said to be involved with the Employment Fund or whatever it's called, not to be wrong, the exact address of the institution, the National Employment Service, whether they should involve colleges, whether they should be included in the Ministry of Health, to somehow find themselves. It's one of the great tasks if he could just do it in a short time frame, in the next period, this Savietto would be a very significant step. Modalities are different. I haven't thought about it at all, because our opportunity and the right to make suggestions about what they should and how they should solve, but obviously something should be done on that plan, that there is no hyper-production of people and personnel who are going to go abroad today or tomorrow, with a very expensive amount of schooling that we give, and completely reference and competent and legal obligation to give the Ministry and Government proposals of that kind, even if they try to unite different visions, of this important programme. There are other important programs, but I leave them to speak of by colleagues who will report after me in front of our parliamentary group. I want to thank the old members of the Council and that when they are elected, if they are, I assume that such a decision will be made by all MPs, because they will be elected, I wish success in the work that will surely be difficult and responsible for them, and ultimately, useful for the whole nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33239	The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33240	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, guests, investment in health was an investment in the sustainable future of our society and our country, and I think that the formation of this Council in 2009 was also extremely important, extremely important. Looking at the powers of the Council, and there are nine, we see what this Council is up to and what function it has. What is most important is that this Council is monitoring and planning reforms, initiating changes and harmonising with EU standards and that is something that this Council has done relatively well. I want to say that some of the things that today's Government and today's minister inherited and not so bad, I can even say that they are very good, and one of these things is what your previous minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, did, and that was the formation of this Council. As we can see, this Council is extremely important, both in the field of planning, and making conditions for reforms, but it also takes care of other very important things, things like planning staff in health care and determining enrolment quotas for schools of medical profile. I think this council is really going to have a lot to do, because I think this is what the distinguished professor was talking about. Pocurica has become a major problem and good counselling in this field is really important. I can commend the work of the current Council, and above all the president of this present committee, a great enthusiast and a man who has done much to raise health care in our country, Professor Delic. I can say that the current Council has worked a lot in the fight against corruption in the health system of the Republic of Serbia and in this field has indeed been the loudest, but also in other fields. Looking at the biographies of the people who are proposed, I can say that even future stimuli will actually have competent people, people of the profession, people behind whom really great scientific works and serious careers stand. We see that there are all the major professional associations, from the university, from the Academy of Science, through the Serbian Medical Society, etc., and by watching biography, I have no doubt that this Council will work well. In front of this Council, it's a really serious job, since this ministry led by Mr. Loncar really went seriously into reform, and we not only see the minister, but we also see significant shifts in the field of raising health care in our country. I can also say that as a representative of a local section. We have an extremely good coordination and we have done a lot in Novi Pazar, thanks to the really high-level work of this ministry that has seriously entered into reforms. In the end, I want to say that 15 people are little, that we in this country really still have a lot of people who deserve to be part of this team anyway. I could list here a really large number of people who, with their knowledge and their other characteristics, could be and should be part of this team. Unfortunately, that's the procedure, that's the law. Of course, I call on many professors, and I have also noticed that in this proposal the Council has many of our teachers, teachers of all doctors in this country, to be open in their ideas and to find some channel that would allow all those who know this matter, including former participants in the political system, from the healthcare industry to give quality ideas and quality suggestions to move the situation to the better. Anyway, before the Council, it's a really serious job, since it's going to make a plan and initiate reforms that this ministry is really trying at a very serious pace to pull and try to achieve in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33241	The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33242	Thank you. I didn't really make it in two-and-a-half minutes to make the essential point of view and the parliamentary groups, so I'm gonna take the opportunity now. This is about this professional advisory body and how it will be in relations or cooperation with us. Not only are we choosing him, but he is obliged to submit once a year a report to the Health Committee and the Health Committee analyses the report, draws its conclusions and informs all MPs about it. We will have the opportunity to really have this creativity that this body will obviously have, because the law actually foresees it, to analyse whether the autonomy of the body existed, whether this creativity has really come to terms with its professional and advisory functions, to bring our act into line and harmonize with EU standards, how much it will actually work on an analysis of the entry policy and how much it will help other ministries to co-operate and, in accordance with the position of the World Health Organization and health, in all policies we realize, here, and here in the Assembly, this position and give our contribution. I think it will be particularly interesting to see how the president, elected by other elected members, and among the names, we can certainly expect that academic Micic or Professor Davidovic or Professor Paunovic or Professor Bejegovic, Djukanovic, will come here most often or probably be elected president, that in these discussions on the Committee we are developing something that is the pillar of the work of a modern parliamentary group such as we are - dialogue. The Committee's dialogue with the representative of this highly independent autonomous body will actually mean a better opportunity for our control function. The control function of parliament and the Health Committee will also be able to come up with expressions through ideas that already operate at the level of Europe, as a modern type of healthcare organisation. This modern type is incomparably better use of community resources in health care. The idea that health care alone can do something, it's simply not possible and it's not feasible, not with us or in the region or beyond. When specifically sensitive groups of patients or already patients are asked, the Council will also know how to give advisory guidance and that the community will see as the focus of connecting all those who can contribute, for example, to people with metal interference. People with metal interference that we often analyze and as perpetrators of violence and various crimes, while being treated in health institutions, do not create any problem. Their problem is when they get back to the community, because there's no family coordination, no health care homes, no social work centers. One such person if he sees in a local police officer a man who cultivates a friend's relationship and who will occasionally ask – and if you go to the controls and whether you regularly take medicines, there will also be a citizen of Europe and a modern, reformed Serbia. In this way, we see actually the possibility of practically being helped by such reputed names, whose biographies are really impressive. Hoping once again to point out that the Ministry of Health as a representative of the Government for Health Affairs is indeed doing its job extremely safe in these difficult, particularly financial difficult times, I am expressing great confidence in the activity that the members of the Council and the parliamentary group will, of course, give their vote that they will be elected, in the expectation that the greatest benefits will be given to citizens, and this will be healthy, as potential patients, and that the healthcare organisation will be on a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33243	Is anyone else answering or should I switch to the list? First speaker Alexander Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33244	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, we have today's choice for the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. One extraordinary body, a really important body that worked during the previous period. I think the body we're going to choose today and what we're talking about today is made up of the best-quality people, the most educated, the most professional. What is important to say is that all relevant institutions participated in the very formation of this body and the proposal. We heard from Mr. Secretary that they attended medical school, dental school, chambers and all other institutions. They proposed their best-quality associates. The role of this body is advisory. In addition to this role, it participates in a reform system, a reform system that the Republic of Serbia itself has entered, and thus also the Ministry of Health. We know that the health system of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period has been destroyed and that, by the arrival of this composition, you too, Mr. Minister, that our Ministry of Health has taken off on a single upward line. Accordingly, I am of the opinion that the body we are talking about today will take a role where parallel to the Ministry of Health, it will contribute to raising our country's health system to a much higher level. What is interesting to say is that this body, and as Professor Poscurica said, participates, works and proposes measures for the even development of the health system, that all categories and all populations be evenly represented and that in this way we unite the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and contribute to its development when we talk about health. This body will not work unless it has the support of all the accompanying or parallel institutions, regardless of his term of office of five years and in five years, a great contribution can be made and a lot can be done, without organisational support and without financial support, the body will not make its contribution. Accordingly, they must be, or this body must be close to the Ministry of Health and make all important reform decisions. When I said reform decisions, we know that the Republic of Serbia is seeking to join the EU, and this body must monitor compliance with European and international standards, together with the Ministry to participate in the making of all acts. He's got 15 members. I don't want to read all those candidates and suggest. I believe that their biographies are indeed on one envious level and that this body will make the greatest contribution to the work of the health system. In addition to the fact that Professor Dragan Stavric said he would no longer participate and would be replaced for personal reasons, I believe that in the day of voting, the SNS parliamentary group should support this body and that we should all improve the health system together in another field. We know what happened in the previous period. Not one man will be able to reform the system, but the team, both MPs, doctors and health councils and the ministry and all other institutions will have to work together to get as good as possible, as high-quality Serbian healthcare as possible. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33245	Thank you. The MP Alexander Markovic is not here. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33246	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, given that today is the most advisory, professional and advisory body in Serbian medicine, I hope that with their help, judging by the names that are there and for the glory of saying, which they have passed through Serbian medicine, we will be able to move forward with what is a long-standing problem in Serbia's health. Namely, I would like them to use their knowledge, their experience in such a way that they will be in direct contact with the source of information from our clinical physicians, our hospital doctors from the field, and especially from patients and users of services, to then with that information they collect from the field, where there will be a series of problems, and what is inherited from the previous regime, when this health system has been brought to the brink of collapse, the ability to draw knowledge and conclusions and to propose solutions for stabilisation, first, the health system, and then to improve. I'm going to ask them to have verified entry information on the situation on the ground and to think about every measure taken. If it is said that one of their tasks is sustainable and efficient health care in Serbia, then they must have information from patients who, when they come to a problem, are prevented from the famous RFZO, which has one famous formula called that the Republic Health Insurance Fund does not recognise the service, does not recognise the number of services or does not recognise the quality of the service, so that it is a direct turn of patients into private practice, so where they did not pay for insurance and where they do not have the ability to treat on the basis of their paid insurance, but is treated on the basis of what they have in their pocket. There are many examples that the services available to patients up to ten years ago are no longer on that list of services, that banal operations are scheduled when in some hospital you have both personnel and equipment to perform a number of operations, but alas, come to RFZO and he says – we don't recognize the fifth cataract operation in some hospital, we recognize four, we can't do five, or gynecology, anywhere, it doesn't matter. I also ask them to have information that in the previous period, some ten years ago, the EU invested significant resources in creating internal plants for the production of parenteral solutions. These parenteral solutions, I also talked about it at one of the previous sessions, were very well and cheaply made, say, at my place in Chačka, and then, let's say, one bottle of famous infusion of saline there cost 15 dinars, and then someone came in, and then shut down that drive and then you have a situation where a physiological solution with some 4.5 grams of kitchen salt in half a liter of water drives from Vrsac from Hemfarm. So he's driving, and at cost, the most involved is transport. In many health centres in Serbia there were such plants to produce parenteral solvents of distilled water and everything that can be done practically in ordinary kitchens with better sterilization conditions, so as not to waste the money of health insurance on transportation of water and some bit of salt. If patients have compulsory insurance, then they have the right to invest from what is called the Health Fund, which is currently about two billion euros a year, all money is spent first on what is called treatment needs, medicines, and then what remains, if anything remains, in something that is paramedicine or paraorganization and which is not directly related to the sick person, to his medications, and to people who care for his health, i.e. doctors, nurses, maids, waitresses, all those who are employed in the health system. If out of these two billion euros collected annually from an insurance company, 800m euros are spent on salaries of all employees, 600m euros are spent on treating patients and about 100m are spent on heating and eating, then it is easy to calculate that 500m euros per year are left to be spent on certain things that are related to either standardisation or development or extended visions of treatment or various achievements of people who make up the cost, which is needed only when money is provided, provided money for all the sick, for all the people who are at risk and for all those who provide the service. I don't mind going forward, but only after those who need medical attention and medication right now are they in compliance with those needs. So I ask the members of this advisory body, the minister and all the people who are dealing with this, first to take care of everyone together about sick people, sick patients and their needs, and then to contribute to the promotion in some other way, which would mean some luxury, besides what's called treatment. In fact, social care about health involves both prevention and all that is related to raising standards, but at this point for some people it is necessary to have the first cure, because they have already become ill. Let me remind you that, for example, at my health center, or hospital in Cačka, in 2014 alone, there were 10,000 views less than the previous year for various reasons. This health advisory, the most professional body, should be dealt with by why the number of services is falling in hospitals, although they are necessary, even though they are necessary and why the burden of health insurance paid by the patients is not always in a position to use these money they invested back in years for their treatment one day. I will repeat once again, given that I really don't know all 15 candidates, but from those I know, that really big names are in the power of medical science and practice, I expect that they will really justify what is called people's torment and the need to treat sick patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33247	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Mr. Zivkovic, you have two and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33248	Of course it's a good thing we're choosing the National Health Council today. It is not good that Serbia has been without that advice for five months, and many problems are present in Serbia, as well as in the field of health care, and I don't think there is any difference between our views. What is important is to do when this advice is finally formed, to remind only that Serbia has not had a National Educational Council for five months. On the same March 18th, the mandate of the National Education Council ceased. There's a new school year going on, and I think it should be chosen, but it's not a topic today. What the New Party's views on health reform are is that it needs to leave the existing system, known as Bizmarkov, to move to the Beverage system with all necessary things, and it assumes free healthcare for a basic health care package for all citizens of Serbia regardless of whether they work or are provided through some other basis. This means that the budget, the total Serbian, is financed by healthcare. This means abolishing the Fund, which has so far been a more source of problems than the source of the solution. This includes the integration of military health into civil health, i.e. the integration of these two systems, because there is no reason why there are two different systems and in many countries that are better condition than we are. When it's war we're all army, when peace is it's civil health. Of course, private medical hospitals, institutions, hospitals need to find their place in Serbia's health system and there are a lot of reasons for that, but I don't have time to talk about it today. Basic things are that the state would stop investing in what is a nonmedical part of health care. If you include private health care, the state does not invest in bricks, in buildings, in equipment, because those who in private health see an interest in making profits, which is for the benefit of all citizens, because then the state pays only for a service, and not for all investments that are normally necessary for the existence of a health system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33249	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33250	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly support these two proposals for the resolution and appointment of members of the council. I think it's very important. As a member of the RFZO Management Board, as a representative of the farmers, I must say that the ministry is delivering better and better proposals. So, after taking care of patients being treated abroad, after the foundation of the fund, after a reduction in the number of board members from 21 to seven, where the Management Board had previously numbered 21 members, there are now seven. Before this, there were two representatives of the farmers, now there's one. But it doesn't seem like the problem is that it's the one, it's the problem that I am. So, in such situations, I suppose, given that I am a problem, that it would be necessary and necessary for me to withdraw from that committee to satisfy those who had twice as many farmers on that committee and also to satisfy those who had three times as many board members as this is the case now, thanks to the proposal of the Ministry of Health, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or thanks to the MPs here, who voted to reduce that number. I also think of those who were against it, because the Parliament's decision also obliges those who voted against and those who did not vote. So equal gratitude to those who voted and even greater to those who did not vote, because that's how we recognized the resistance of those who are against health savings. Considering that as a representative of the RFO farmers, I intend to retire soon, because I realized that I am not quite a peasant enough, and I am willing to give my place to my fellow farmer. I don't have enough of that blue blood of peasants for you as opposed to him, so it would be best if I were to withdraw and most likely to make that decision these days, and since, once again, I'm not a very specific-looking peasant, so it would be good if I didn't back down and not be the subject of a press attack that reminded me that the place that was intended for farmers and that they were supposed to fill in farmers would be good to fill in the doctors. So, I was attacked because of what the law prohibits the RFO's board of directors from sitting with health care providers. They can only sit there, i.e. decisions taken by insurance representatives, farmers, pensioners' employees. I guess I'm only guilty because I'm a farmer or I'm not a farmer enough, unlike my colleague, so I'm taking this opportunity to say that I intend to retire soon as I find out about all the machinations that have been going on in health, to withdraw and to leave my place to someone else. I support this proposal for the simple reason that these people will best represent patients, that it will help the Ministry and the people of the Management Board, that the ranks in front of the counters are reduced, that the lines in front of the offices are reduced, but also that the lines in front of the borders and border crossings, where talented doctors go abroad, that the order, or that number that goes abroad, is reduced, because it is not good for the poor state of Serbia in which patients are waiting for a row and a few months, especially on the oncology in Sremska Kamenica, where they need three times to overwrite the health book until you get to the turn for radiation and there is waiting for about 1000 people for three months because there are several times people who decide there, and they have called them the AP Vojvodina, several times organised a tender that has fallen, and therefore 1000 patients there are waiting for radiation, and thus there are a number of deaths in some ways that are interminated and in some ways that interfere. I've had a lot of these irregularities since I've been representing farmers on the RFO Management Board, and I'm going to say that to someone else. In favour of some more fruitful and faster discussion at this session I give up my further exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33251	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go, Dr. Laketich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33252	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, above all for us doctors who sit in parliamentary benches is a great honor and pleasure whenever one of the health laws is found. In this case, it is an honor and pleasure to discuss and discuss Serbia's Health Council today, the top advisory body in health care. I will mention several very important responsibilities that Serbia's Health Council has. That is, it is necessary to say that the Serbia Health Council, one of its legal competences, is to adopt plans and strategies in health reform. This is very important because the body that is made up of the prominent experts that I see today as a proposal, first of all, puts trust in the domain of this jurisdiction that we are talking about today. Also, one of the responsibilities of the Health Council of Serbia is the harmonisation of standards with the health standards that exist in the EU, then, coordination with the Ministry of Health, which is definitely necessary in order to improve the quality of health care in our country, the health care education strategy, etc. What is particularly interesting and particularly significant, I would like to point out, is the importance and competence of the Health Council in writing a specific education policy, which is related to enrolment policy at universities and enrolment policy in the schools of health professions. This is particularly significant, first of all, knowing that we are in one situation where there are a large number of health workers of certain profiles on the bureau, is a team in a relationship, I think the Health Council will definitely give the best guidance that, not only reduce the number of such profiles on the bureau, but also in an adequate way in real life and hire these people. Also, as a man who, besides medicine, is involved in the education of healthcare professionals, I must say that the importance of the Serbian Health Council in assessing the quality of continued medical education is great and, I would say, dominant in this area. We health workers, in particular, know how important it is that each of us follows the profession and that this monitoring is accompanied by adequate consideration and analysis by and the Health Council of Serbia, which monitors the programs, and the Chamber of Doctors, which is due and has, above all, something different jurisdiction. What's very important, is that, reading, I say, these names that are proposed, and I'm talking about people I know, I have to admit that I really have an opinion and that the continued medical education in the coming period will be significantly better, significantly more carefully analysed in this period and, in any case, contribute to a better organisation of healthcare services and better consideration and treatment of patients. With that in mind, I just have to say that, in accordance with these facts that I've said, I absolutely think that in the voting day we will support these proposals and wish them all success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33253	Thank you, Dr. Laketic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33254	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, it's good to have these people elected today. We've heard more about the very functioning of the Council and as one body that is supreme, professional, advisory. We've seen their names, which aren't really bad in any way. Besides, I'm a layman, as you know, I can't comment on that. But what I have to say, before I move on to a brief review of our current state of health, is that these people are really showing by their biographies, in my opinion, that they're coming to the right place. So that's where I agree with you. I wish we had some insight, I've heard, I've listened carefully to your exposure, about what is concrete, say, if there are any plans, some ideas that these people will be able to present in advance as the intensity of their work within the council. So, lay it out, so as anyone would say, anyone is not a health care worker, including me, what do these people think they're doing, which are their ideas towards the development of our health system, solving priority issues, solving the neural points of our health system, the dysfunction of the fund, and everything else we've heard about and from our distinguished colleagues, who no doubt know more about than I do? So that's the first question. So, I'd like us to hear what this name, any of these doctors, professors, what does this name tell us about in which direction this reform is going to take, because you're the minister as head of state administration's authority and a couple of political figures within the Serbian government dealing with health care? So you're responsible for functioning the health system. These people will be advised. They're going to cost this country, just a moment to see, I wrote here, about 17 million dinars, of which is a million and something goes to work council. If you can just specify that, I don't understand that disproportion, what it refers to, I don't get the first digit, the second digit. Here, clean, so there's no misunderstanding. The third question, therefore, is the main, generic question, which concerns the joy of this Council. We also listened here today from respected colleagues who doctors are a very good display of what is wrong with our health system. I wouldn't have anything to add, except to ask you as Minister, so a responsible person – how will this Council allow you to correct the endemic bad situation in our health, the chronic bad situation in our health care, to plead medically? At this point, we have dozens of health homes in Serbia whose accounts are blocked, as you know, we have dozens of primary and secondary health care facilities where there are no basic materials, medicines and everything else, we have a situation where there are very suspicious tenders under which, for example, the Clinical Center and others, they get meals and get meals from certain companies, which will only one day be investigated, and see who's there why they're getting millions of contracts, not to talk about pharmaceutical contracts. We have a situation that, as you were saying, the Ministers, thousands of doctors are going abroad. You've done the right thing, and here's the commendation, by going into reforming this system through the issue of specialization, and therefore the systematicization of jobs, which I think is a positive thing. Also, we have an announcement that thousands of workers so-called. nonmedical staff lose their jobs in Serbia. These are the questions that I would like to hear the answers of someone from this Council, what they are going to advise you to solve these problems, and since, of course, they are not there and they cannot talk, perhaps you can tell me specifically how we are going to solve the problem of a terribly bad situation in our health, terribly bad, where, unfortunately, although you are fighting it, there are still waiting lists, where, unfortunately, you can't get neither radiation nor recording, nor anything without a months of waiting, where, unfortunately, you have primary health care at the very rudimentary level in Serbia. Not to mention what I mentioned, our home accounts, our people, are blocked. In the meantime, they were not allowed to receive new employees except through the specialisation plan and what are deficiting interests in our health, such as radiologists, anastesologists, etc., but people have been received since you've been in power. In three years, a lot of new people have been admitted without any plan, no sense at all, and there's no doubt there's politics, I'm afraid. So those are the questions. Our doctors, Mr. Minister, and nonmedical staff and all the health employees are paid in a miserable manner. Your government has cut their wages. What do you mean, here, you tell us that a specialist is going to work for 55,000, 60,000 dinars, possibly 70,000 dinars, I don't know how much time a man can push, how can he do that number? How do you think it continues to function, and what will the Council say about the situation in which you have a surgeon, say the Emergency Centre, which has dozens of operations, maybe not dozens, but let's say five, six, seven, ten operations a day, that has the same salary as a man who works in a hospital in central Serbia or in northern Vojvodina, doesn't matter, which has the same salary, and cannot compare the nature of work and weight? You know very well what I'm talking about. I think it's urgent to get rid of it, to make the criteria by which someone will get a higher salary due to the weight of the job, because they're doing incredibly difficult things. You know, they're exposed not only to psychophysical efforts, they're exposed to infections in our hospitals, as you've seen. We had an infection recently at the Clinical Center, at the Emergency Centre of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, and everyone had to keep quiet about it. Then it leaked out to the public, and what happened to it? What happened to the fact that more than 5,000 Serbian citizens today have a rumor? We are a nation in which 5,000 people have shrubs in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33255	Mr. Stefanovic, please, just get back to the agenda. I'm trying to be a tolerance, but simply in this kind of quality discussion, you're the only one who's trying to talk out of the agenda right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33256	You always interrupt me when I want to score, that's amazing. The point is next. Since the people of the Council are not here, dear ministers, these problems I have brought to you are not party-colored, these are the problems of the citizens of Serbia and the health of the Republic of Serbia, because Serbian health is not there, as there is no Bosniak, to teach my colleagues. So, please, as the person who is here in some way in these people who will advise you, who will in some way advise the entire health system of the Republic of Serbia, to tell us at least about what the people on this list, and whose names as MPs or laymen mean nothing to us, other than a clear insight that they are professionals, which is good, what these people are going to do and how they advise you to solve these huge, endemic, deep, chronic problems in the health of the Republic of Serbia, which you have spoken of several times. So my dispute isn't that I know you're aware of what's wrong. My problem is, can you, do you have support, do you have any material resources from the budget, do you have the support of the Prime Minister to solve these things? Do you have the support to raise your salaries to health care because, in my opinion, what was reduced should not have been reduced to Serbia's health, which was otherwise paid in misery? How is the situation going to improve...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33257	Mr. Stefanovic, I'm asking you again to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33258	This is what the subject is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33259	Well, it isn't, Mr. Stefanovic. The MPs wouldn't mind talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33260	I'm in danger of being punished and then withdrawing your sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33261	I don't want to punish you, but I think you should talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33262	All right. I mean, Minister, please, what will the Council advise you on situations where Serbian citizens come to the hospital or to a health care home and say to them – we have no antibiotics, no gauze, no bandage, no needle, come tomorrow, come in the day after tomorrow, come in a month, wait in turn, answer, no one answers, etc.? How long will our sisters do our jobs at the receptions in the health care homes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33263	Since it's not worth asking, I have to stop you like this. Thank you. Before the minister, the word has been given by MP Ninoslav Giric in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33264	Thank you, Chairman. Excuse me, Minister. You have warned and advertised Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure several times. - agenda. So the competencies and the health council's competences are very well known. If someone had listened carefully to both the introductions and the debaters so far, he could hear what the competencies and authority of the Health Council were. To talk about health problems, it's a really wide topic. This debt the previous speaker spoke of, it's not yesterday. A lot of things are inherited in that story. I'm not going to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm asking you not to let any of this talk go a long way about problems in the health system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33265	I thank you, Mr. Giric. The previous speaker himself said that he thinks he can score this way, so it's an honor to him. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33266	I'm going to answer you specifically to every question, not flatulence or anything. If I accidentally skip something, please follow and you'll tell me. In particular about the Council, the three first goals that will be is to make a proposal for entry policy in college for well-known reasons, because of how many people are enrolled and how long it takes, and to look at. For what reason do I want the Council to do this? The council includes people from the Medical School, from the Serbian Academy of Sciences, from clinical centres, from medical chambers and all associations who can provide all the necessary information to get full insight and attitude about what we need and what we don't need. I think they're absolutely mundane and it's their number one priority to sit down and do it. The other thing to deal with and what's urgent, it's licenses. You've probably heard that we're going to have a certain number of people who haven't collected enough points to extend the license, for well-known reasons. Because of all of this, I think this is an adequate body that needs to make a suggestion. The ministry, of course, already has, but we want to agree with the Council, too, that they suggest how to overcome this problem, how to solve it, to stay in the process of disappearing the system. To limit myself to only three things, the third thing, or the third priority that will be to them is corruption. You know very well that my view of corruption is zero healthcare corruption. As long as I'm in this place, I'll fight to make it so. Now, these are the specific objectives of the Council that we're talking about today. What I'm going to ask them to do, if possible, have a five-year term, and I'm going to want that, and I'm going to insist on you, that they report here in the Assembly for six months, see what they've proposed and what's been done about it. I want them to take responsibility, too. You've seen the biographies, you've seen everything, they're our most invaluable experts. We don't have any better, or we do, but not everyone can be there. But this body isn't limited that they can't listen to the advice of all those who are relevant to the area they're talking about, especially these three things. So that's a concrete answer to what they're going to do. Second thing, you said about the wages they'd cost. I can't give you an answer right now, because it's inherited, it's just a payday and it's been made in 2009. I don't think there's gonna be any problem with these people, and I'm sure they'll accept that it'll be minimal, minimum compensation, that none of them will insist on any pay. I'm guessing one of them is going to decide not to take that salary. I don't think these people are motivated by that pay at all. We'll look at every way to absolutely cut the cost of state and budget. Here, I can't answer specific numbers, but I say what principle they'll be, knowing these people. The next thing you know, you're saying, "Health homes in an account blockade." I want to remind you why your health and health care facilities are blocked. They are in a blockade because in the previous period, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010, the state of Serbia, or the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health, they transferred money to these institutions to pay the costs they had incurred, the material costs, the costs of maintaining goods, materials, everything they needed to do, and they had not purposely spent that money. They did not pay what they were supposed to pay, medicines, materials, and all that was necessary for a health care facility to work, but instead hired people and paid them. There's a cost from there. These people who couldn't charge themselves, who were giving goods and everything else, went to court, sued, one statement, another statement, and finally now in this period, with which we had nothing to do with anything, absolutely nothing at all, only it came to us rightly that we should pay for it. There, so much my Ministry has to do with this blockade they're in right now. Now the state is asked to pay back what it paid for already, for which it gave money, but that money was not spent on it, but was spent on hiring people, giving some rewards, giving rises and so on. Imagine if there's an example in the world that twice the state pays the same thing because of someone's irresponsible behavior and who's no longer in that place, no sanctions are borne, no matter what. Is that normal? What kind of example is that for those who are now in those places? There's no problem, the Fund will pay, I won't pay the bills that come to me for the material and everything, because it'll take five, six, seven years for them to get it in court, I'll give it to some other stuff where I'm going to collect some other points and there's no problem. If that's a good example, then there's no problem. But I didn't hear any of them say, "People, what about who did it?" Is that normal? What's up with that? Did someone process it? Unintentional spending of money. That's not what anyone's asking. Now he's just asking, why is the account in the blockade? We will never solve this problem until those who did it sanction themselves. No theoretical way. There's no theoretical chance, because the one who came today, when he sees how he went before him what he was doing, when he sees that the state is, not to say what, which pays for everything once, two, three times the same, it's impossible to endure and impossible to get in line. What did we do? We're done with the Treasury Department. Two days ago, the questionnaire concluded that all health institutions that have such a problem give their data as much as they owe to and we made a complete list of debts, to cut it off, so that they couldn't block those institutions and take over us and the Ministry of Finance to reprogram these debts and pay people what they owe. So, for the second time, we're paying for what's already been paid. Can you understand that? So it's already paid, now we're paying again, and whoever did it is enjoying it. He doesn't even have a sanction to turn down his salary for what he did, not something else. So that's how we solve this problem, so that people don't activate these executive judgments, but that the state takes over the reprogramme and pays them off, so that the institutions can function. Here, to make it clear to everyone why we're going into blockades and why we're getting into a functioning problem. Inherited thing, I told you from which years, fifth, sixth and seventh, now only that supreme court at the end, behind which no more, made the decision that it had to be charged, that there were people right. That's the essence of the problem. But we're doing everything, and no institution is going to work, because we've taken over those facilities that are blocked, where those verdicts are activated. We took for everyone who arrived at the bill, but also for the current, not for the past, to go directly to the fund and the pay fund, so as not to stop the process of work. So, consumable material, fuel, whatever it takes, it's paid directly to have material, so it can work, pay people off and work. So it's the only thing we can do in this situation. Here's a concrete answer to that question. Nonmedical personnel, we have 25%, it's normal to have 10%. We have more nonmedical staff, 26-27 thousand, and 23-24 thousand doctors. If everyone wants, normally, every honor to nonmedical personnel, we have a natural outflow and everything, so that's something we need to regulate. This can't be worth it. We can't function. We need doctors, we need nurses. What are we up to? For autsoring, for all the nonmedical staff we need, to hire it. For what reason? We have a famous problem with maids. We, for example, have a hospital staff of 120 maids, for 20 of them. For what reason? One of them's on sick leave, one of them's on vacation, the other's got the art of not being able to do the job. There's not 30% of those who work. When you look at how much we pay, we pay 120, and 30 works. We're having a hard time solving this problem. That's why we decided to do it from the service that exists and then we pay for it, but on the daily level, we have all the services we need and we pay for all the nonmedical staff, because we don't see any other way. It's practice in the world, it's practice everywhere. We don't know if you have any better models, we don't have anything controversial. You mentioned something about radiation. I don't know what to tell you, except that I'm ashamed of what happened at the Stonestone, where waiting lists were made. I don't have anything else to say, that it's been two years since the tender, until we got involved to finish it now. I insist again, instead of three, four machines to be taken. I don't think that's normal. It's bordering on the fact that we don't think about those people who need it, that we have another goal. What did we do? Yesterday it was called, to inform you, a tender for four new accelerators for Nis, Kragujevac and Belgrade, to be installed, completed, to start radiation on them. The World Bank, because of their procedures, everything, we expect in the next period, in the coming months, to complete the procedure with them, to buy, hopefully, between five and nine newest accelerators, the most modern in the world, and to solve this problem, that no one will ever be able to tell you that there's something missing, that it doesn't work. It's a human factor, specifically in Kamenica. If you provide money, if you have a manufacturer, if you have everything, and it doesn't work, I can't hear any explanation for it, nor can I accept it. There's no theoretical chance. Not just that, but for everything else. Doctor's in. Of course we received doctors and nurses and medical staff all the time. But how did we receive them? When the government commission was approved, did you have a competition-free application, which was most often, not a practice, but a case? Was there a reception here that didn't go to the competition, that I insisted on, that the government's commission had approved and that the competition was called and that people were received? How'd it go so far? Approv yourself and there's no problem, the health care institution receives without competition. So, what do we insist on, when it's accepted, when it's agreed, what do we take care of? We take care of the inflow and the outflow of people who retire, who quit, who go into private practice, who go abroad. We take care of people, specialists who are over 55. I'm glad you've complimented the specials and we've shortened that deadline. I have to stand for politics to take these people because we can't be contradictory. Either you take it or you don't receive it, do we want people to treat us or not to treat us and have someone to treat us tomorrow? It doesn't matter if we finish work today or tomorrow, but if we don't take care of the next five to ten years, it takes a minimum of five years for a specialist, minimum, that's how long the specialization takes. They've been gone for years. Over 1,500 are approved specials, they're on their way, they're on their way. So that's the essence of things. Of course, you asked for the Prime Minister's support. Well, without his support, there's nothing I can do about it. I couldn't do anything. In the end, he got involved in this radiation problem. Finally, funds were found from the budget, because we stand better financially, to separate for these four machines, bunkers, CT simulators. It's not just a radiation machine. That's where the bunker should be made. That's where you need to take the CTs that indicate that machine. There should be a special program to do all this. People should get dressed. It's not that. We bought a machine, we put it on, he works alone, and there's no problem. These are special conditions for these appliances, special insulation, especially everything. So we're doing everything absolutely to improve this. I stress, zero corruption. For everything you've got, come on. What interests me is that I don't have any health corruption, I don't have any problems. No tender. So I'm calling the press to come to the tender, to participate in the tenders. For everyone they're interested in, to sit at every meeting, so there won't be a story tomorrow – a tender done like this. Journalists should agree to attend each other's tender to be called by the Ministry of Health. I hope I can answer your questions. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33267	Mr. Stefanovic, I suppose you're looking for a replica, but after such a detailed explanation of your every question, Mr. Loncar, I don't think you have any option, nor do I have the right to give you my word. You have not mentioned one in any negative context, and the minister has more than needed to answer all your questions. I'm concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will vote and decide on the proposals of these decisions in the voting day. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions under points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be two hours and 30 minutes of debate, as well as that this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. Please, MP groups, if they haven't already done that, report immediately. In accordance with Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 25 June 2015 on the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary on 25 June 2015; on the motion for a decision on the choice of judges who were first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the Court on 15 June 2015 and the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the Court on 24 April 2015. Does the representative of Proposer Miroljub Tomic, an election member of the High Council of the Judiciary, in the order of the judges, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Tomic, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33268	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first to welcome you all to the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, otherwise the authorising officer when it comes to the election of candidates for the highest office in the judiciary, so these are judicial functions. I am here today to present to you and the citizens of Serbia, of course, if they are watching this transfer of the assembly session, to present and explain the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary concerning candidates listed in the material and related to the selection of judges in the Basic Court in Cačka, the Court of Commerce in Uzic and the Criminal Court in Belgrade. When it comes to a competition involving the election of judges at the Court of First Instance in Cacak, I can say that the High Council of the Judiciary is based on Article 47. The Law on Judges, and regarding the decision on the number of judges in courts, in Official Messenger No 30/15, of 27.03. In 2015 announced a choice for selecting one judge for the Court of First Instance in Cačka. In the process of electing and proposing candidates for the selection of judges, the High Council of the judiciary is based on the provisions of Article 44. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the judiciary have made a decision on the education of the Commission to elect judges and to mention that such a decision is always made when it comes to the choice of judges in a particular court, as the law also obliges us to do so in the end, but we also feel the need. We think it is important to have a conversation with the candidates who have applied for a particular ad for the selection of the most judicial functions, because we think it is important to get to know each other in a direct communication with the candidates, to see their relationship with certain issues related to judicial work and to take a certain position after that conversation, as a commission. The Commission’s task is, among other things, to carry out a verification of the applications made for that ad, to determine their well-timed and completeness, and to assess whether candidates meet the criteria and criteria for selecting the prescribed provisions of Article 43 of Article 44(2) and Article 45. The law on judges. Otherwise, a total of 49 candidates, and one candidate from the judge's office, 30 candidates from the judge's assistants' office, five lawyers and 13, filed a published ad for the selection of judges for the Court of Justice in Cacca, a timely and complete application, to say, the other persons. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, has obtained an opinion for all candidates on expertise, skills, dignity for the performance of the judiciary. For the candidates coming out of the court order, the opinion of the courts in which the candidates perform certain duties, work tasks, by obtaining an opinion from both the judge's sitting and the judge's session directly, on the one hand, and for candidates who do not work in the court, the opinion of the court, the competence and dignity to perform the judicial functions of the authorities and organisations in which the candidates work, as for the candidates in the order of the lawyers, has been obtained by the opinion of the Bar Association in whose register the lawyer is registered. In accordance with Article 50(2), an evaluation of the work for 2012, 2013 and 2014 has been carried out for candidates coming from the order of the judicial assistants. Just to point out that this assessment is practically carried out on the basis of the opinion of those who have direct insight into the work of these candidates, which are judges who follow their work, who are their mentors, who give them certain tasks and who can best be made known and about the quality, urgency, expertise, efficiency, certain candidates. The panel for the selection of judges held a conversation with the candidates. That's what we do every time it comes to the choice of judges. In this case, we've had a conversation with 48 candidates. On the basis of the Commission's report, the High Judicial Council identified which candidates meet the criteria and criteria for selecting judges prescribed by Article 43. Laws on Judges and Provisions of Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents. On the basis of Article 13 of the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and on Article 51. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, has proposed after this completely implemented procedure, and today I repeat it here before you, honourable MPs, that, for a candidate, or judge of the Basic Court in Cacca, Natasa Gacic, who is a judicial assistant in the Higher Court of Cacca. For this candidate and the other candidates to bring out only the most brief, shortest biography so that I don't take up much time, and on the one hand. On the other hand, I think it is necessary to say a few words about the work of these candidates, about their previous engagement, so that both the citizens of Serbia and we here have insight into their work so far and in order to know who we choose, into these extremely important and responsible functions. Natasa Gacic was born in 1975 in Cačka. The basic studies ended at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade with an extremely good assessment, a general success, with an average score of 9.03 and passed the judicial exam in 2003. Since 2000, she has worked at the Municipality Court in Cačka on the work of trainees. Otherwise, when it comes to this candidate, I have to say that this candidate has been doing the work of a judicial assistant for almost 12 years. So, one long time period. Since she passed her judicial exam in 2003, she has worked at the Municipal Court as a judicial assistant, and since December 2012, she has been admitted to a working relationship in the Higher Court of Cacak as a judicial assistant in civil matter. For the results of the work achieved in 2012, 2013 and 2014 it was assessed by the assessment of "specific emphasis" showing that the work has achieved extremely good results and has shown that it is responsible, professional and trained for independent work. In the view of the session of all Judges of the Higher Court in Cačka, which was also adopted by the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, it was given a positive opinion that it meets the conditions laid down by the Law on Judges and the provision of a decision on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges. They're all parameters. These are all the results that have defined the High Judicial Council to propose this candidate for the Court of Justice's election in Cacca. When it comes to a competition for the election of one judge for the Business Court in Uzic, I can say that at the same session, the High Council of the Judiciary decided to issue an ad for one judge's election, that in the same Official Messenger and published that ad, and that the High Council of the Judiciary as in this case, as in all other cases, had formed a Commission for the Election of Judges, which I had just met this Parliament, and that the published advert for the selection of Judges for the Business Court in Užica had reported, i.e. a total of 16 candidates and two candidates from the order of judges, nine candidates from the order of the Judges and five to say that they had come from other institutions and organisations. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary has also obtained, in this case, an opinion on professionalism for all candidates, on competence, dignity for the performance of the judicial office, and in accordance with Article 50(2) for candidates coming from the order of the Judges, an assessment of the work for 2012, 2013 and 2014. The panel for the selection of judges held talks with a total of 14 candidates who applied for the election of judges for the Business Court in Uzic. So after the competition was held, and on the basis of Article 13(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Law on the High Council of the judiciary relating to Article 51(1) The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed, and now I repeat that decision, i.e. I explain to you, that the Judge at the Privred Court in Užica is chosen by Katarina Bozovic, a judicial assistant at the Privredski Court in Užica. Katarina Bozovic was born in 1970 in Užica, she finished her studies at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac in 1995 with a general success of 7.30 and passed the judicial exam in 1998. Katarina Bozovic has an extremely long internship and experience in the affairs of a judicial assistant, more precisely 17 years, since she had conducted her internship in the period 1995 to 1997, in 1998 she was assigned to the affairs of a judicial assistant at the Trade Court in Užica and as a judicial assistant in calling an independent advisor in that court, where she made decisions in the judicial, bankruptcy and executive department, as well as decisions concerning the registry. For the results of the work achieved in 2012, 2013 and 2014, it was assessed by the assessment of "in particular the emphasis" so that the work showed that it was responsible professionally and qualified to work in the future as a judge. Also, in the opinion of the session of all judges of the Court of Commerce, but also of the first-degree Economic Court in Uzic, she received a positive opinion that she meets the conditions laid down by the Law on Judges and Provisions of the Decision on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of the judge and president of the courts, all of which was co-worker Katarina Bozovic and recommended by the VSS, and now the VSS proposes the Assembly to elect her as Judge of the Court of Commerce in Uzic. We have another proposal, and this is a proposal relating to the election of judges for the Belgrade Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33269	Mr. Tomic, please, before you continue to read a note. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf a group of students who perform professional practice in the town municipality of Chukarica, who are currently following part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome the guests. Here you go, Mr. Tomic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33270	Thank you very much, and I join in welcoming students who are in a position to monitor the work of this House. So, when it comes to the election for the Belgrade Criminal Court, the VSS has announced an 11-judge for Belgrade's criminal court in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 105/14 as of 3 October 2014. In the process of proposing candidates for the selection of judges, the VSS is based on Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS, made a decision on the education of the Commission to elect a judge, whose task, as in earlier cases, was to carry out a full check, how applications were submitted to the ad, so as to establish their completeness and well-timeliness, as well as to hold talks with the candidates who submitted the application. By the way, a total of 259 candidates have applied to this ad, including 119 candidates, from the 86 candidate judges, from the 10 candidates' line, and from the other institutions and organisations, a total of 44 candidates. The Commission held talks with a total of 140 candidates, a large number of people with whom the Commission was able to discuss the talks and inform themselves about their work results and everything related to their work so far. On the basis of Article 13(3) of the VSS Act and on Article 51. The Law on Judges, at a session held on 21 April 2015, made a decision which I am now explaining here before you, honourable MPs, to elect the following candidates for the Judges of the Criminal Court in Belgrade: Antonic Goran, a graduate. Koceljev's lawyer, who was born in 1959 in Šapec, finished his studies at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1984, and passed the judicial exam in 1995 and worked as a graduate lawyer at the Agricultural Enterprise PIC "23. September’ in Koceljev. Then, the Secretary of Health "Dr Darinka Lukic" in Koceljev, then at the Health Centre "Dr Laza Lazarevic", in Šapac worked from March 1989 to March 1995, first as Head of Legal Service, and from 1989 to 1992 and later until 1995 as a graduate lawyer. Then, following a judicial examination, he was appointed Judge and Elder of the Municipal Crimes Authority in Koceljevo, where he was in office until 31 December 2009, and worked from September 2010 to July 2012 as a reference for property and legal affairs in the municipality administration of Koceljev, to continue on the affairs and tasks of the judicial assistant in the Criminal Court in Valjevo, between July 2013 and June 2014. And we can see from this biography that it's a candidate with long working experience in different institutions and organizations and according to the results we've been able to look at, it's a very successful candidate who's achieved extremely good and quality results in all these institutions. The next candidate proposed by the VSS is Đuricic Maja, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. She was born in 1976 in Cupria, and she finished her basic studies at the University of Belgrade Law School with an average success of 7.16 and then passed a judicial exam in 2005. We see that she has a long internship in the affairs of a judicial assistant, for over 10 years, since she first worked at the First Municipal Court after passing the judicial exam, then established a working relationship at the Belgrade District Court, where she worked in the second-degree higher litigation department to draft second-degree decisions as well as in the secretary's affairs. Then, as of 1 January 2010, a co-worker was deployed to the Court of Appeal in Belgrade at the workplace of a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate, a litigation, and was assessed for the results of the work in 2013 by the assessment "in particular it stands out". For 2011 and 2012, it was not evaluated, since it was on maternity leave. In the opinion of the session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, it fulfils all the conditions laid down by the Law on Judges and Provisions of the Decision on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and president of the courts, which all of my colleagues, Đuričić Maju and recommended, are all the reasons which were managed by the High Council of the Judiciary, when he proposed a choice for the judge of the criminal court. The next candidate is Ivanovic Ivana, who is otherwise the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy. A colleague was born in 1981 and completed her studies at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac in 2006 with good grades, with a general success of 8.74 and passed the judicial exam in 2010. After a judicial examination, she established a working relationship at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, at the workplace of a judicial assistant from 2010 to 2011, and after that, from 1 November 2011, she was a beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy. According to the Director of the Judicial Academy, the candidate Ivanovic Ivana is a professional, qualified and worthy judge, and during the training of the mentor was evaluated by the highest assessment, by an evaluation of five, i.e. the assessment is "specific" and these are the reasons why the VSS proposes this significant judicial function. The candidate Kojidinović Banovac Branislava is currently a judicial assistant in the Administrative Court. A colleague was born in 1980 and completed her studies at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, with an average score of 7.90. The colleague also longed to perform the affairs of a judicial assistant, since she passed the judicial exam in 2006, established a working relationship at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade that year, at the workplace of a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate, and worked in the Leaven Department and held an independent report. Since January 2010, she has worked first as a senior professional associate at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, and has been working in the administrative court since 16 December 2013. For the results of the work achieved in 2011 and 2012, it was assessed by the assessment of "supervised" until it was evaluated for 2013, since it was pregnant and maternity leave. In November 2008, she received a scholarship from the Association for International Co-operation of Judges of the Federal Republic of Germany and as the only representative of the Republic of Serbia, from the area of civil and trade law, attended a ten-day seminar in Bono. In the view of the session of all the judges of the Administrative Court, it meets all the conditions laid down in the Law on Judges and the provisions of the decision on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise of competence and dignity for the selection of judges and the President of the Courts. The next candidate is Lakic Jelena, a beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, born in 1985 in Belgrade. She finished her basic studies at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law in 2008 with a good average, i.e. a general assessment, with an average score of 8.68. She passed the judicial exam in 2011 and worked as a legal intern at the law firm from 1 November 2011 to start working at the Judicial Academy. As a beneficiary of initial training, she went through the D.A.'s criminal, litigation department and violations. During the work, she completed training at the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights in the field of protection of human rights and knowledge of the European Convention on Human Rights, and according to the director of the Judicial Academy, candidate Jelena Lakic is professional, trained and worthy of performing judicial office. During the mentor's training, it was assessed by an evaluation of five, so the highest estimates, so the assessment "specially highlights" and found that it showed a high degree of motivation for the work and acquisition of knowledge as well as the opinion of mentors of the lecturers themselves and recommended it for the judge of the Criminal Court. Candidate Majačić Katarina, currently a judicial assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, born in 1978, graduated from the Faculty of Law with an average score of 7.67. A colleague, Majačić Katarina, has been working for over ten years on the affairs of a judicial assistant, since she passed the judicial exam in 2004, after which she continued to work in the same court as a judicial assistant in calling a judicial associate and later a senior judicial associate. Between February 2006 and December 2009, she was the secretary of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. It was then deployed to Belgrade's First Basic Court, where she worked as a judicial assistant by December 2010, and otherwise, for the results achieved in 2011, 2012 and 2013 was assessed by the highest score, so the assessment "is particularly prominent". According to a session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, it meets all the conditions prescribed by law and by the decision to set criteria for the criterion, assessment of expertise, training, dignity for the choice of judges and the president of courts. The next candidate proposed by the High Judicial Council is Mitrovica Costa, a judicial assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, born in 1983 in Belgrade. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2006 with an extremely good average, i.e. with an average rating at 9.03. The judicial exam was passed in March 2010. The Master of Studies at the Faculty of Law at the University of Nis finished in 2013 with an award and received the Charter of the City of Nis as the best master of the University of the Year. Since 2013, he has been in doctoral studies at the Faculty of Law at the University of Nis. He performed the traineeship with the city's justice for the crimes of the City of Belgrade in the period from March 2007 to December 2009 when he established a working relationship at the Criminal Court in Belgrade at the post of judicial assistant, and from February 2013 to December 2013 he was a consultant for justice at the justice ministry. Since January 2014, he has been a judicial assistant at the Criminal Court of Belgrade, and for the results achieved in 2011, 2012 and 2013 he has been assessed as "particularly prominent". He is a member of the Working Party in the development of a strategy and action plan to prevent the fight against human trafficking for the period 2013 to 2018 and of the Working Group in the development of a strategy and action plan to combat discrimination for the period 2013. – 2018. He also took part as a lecturer at numerous national and international consultations, as he is a member of the negotiating team of the Republic of Serbia on EU accession to bilateral screening, held in Brussels in 2013, under Chapter 23 as a negotiator in the area of international justice. In the opinion of the session of all judges of the Criminal Court, as well as meetings of all judges of the Criminal Court of Appeals, fulfils all the conditions laid down in the Law on Judges and Provisions on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents. The next candidate is Pavlica Djuro, otherwise a judicial assistant to the Belgrade Criminal Court, born in 1970 in Rijeka. He graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Pristina. After completing his three-year traineeship, he passed a judicial exam on March 28th 2007. Currently working at the Belgrade Criminal Court as a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate. He works in the judicial administration as an authorised person to act under the Law on free access to information of public importance. The procedure is followed by submissions and complaints made by judges of the Criminal Court, and for the results of the work in 2011, 2012 and 2013 has been assessed by the assessment of "in particular it stands out". The high council of the judiciary particularly noted when proposing this candidate that when a session of all judges of the Belgrade Criminal Court was held, Pavlica Djuro was second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Ristanovic Oliver's candidate, Judge Assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, was born in 1975 in Požega. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2002 with a general success of 6.90. The judicial exam was passed in 2007. Since February 2010, he has been working at the Belgrade Criminal Court as a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate, and since August 2011, he has been the secretary of the court. For the results of the work achieved in 2011, 2012 and 2013, it has been assessed by the assessment of ‘in particular’. According to a session of all the judges of the Criminal Court, but the judge of the Criminal Court of Appeals, this candidate met all the criteria when it comes to professionality, dignity and competence regarding the choice of judges, and I especially note that the VSS had in mind that Ristanovic Olivera was ranked first on the ranking list according to the number of votes received in the court in which he served as a judicial associate. The candidate Sibinović Jelena, judge's assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, was born in 1983 in Arangelovac. The basis of the Faculty of Law study ended in 2006 with an extremely good estimate, i.e. an average score of 8.58. The judicial exam was passed in 2008. From January to December 2009, he is at the workplace of a judicial assistant at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, and since January 2010, he has been deployed to the First Basic Court in Belgrade, at the workplace of a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate. The criminal proceedings both for the results achieved and in 2012 and 2013 received the highest marks, so the evaluations are "specificly highlighted", until it was assessed for one year since it was on maternity leave. In the opinion of the session of all judges of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, it meets all the conditions prescribed by the Law on Judges and Provisions of the Decision on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, and all the co-workers and recommended it when we proposed to elect a judge of the Criminal Court. Finally, the 11th in this list is Scepanovic Bojana, a judicial assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade. counterpart Scepanovic Bojana was born in Belgrade on 1 April 1984. The basis of the study ended at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2008 with a general success of 7.84. She passed the judicial exam on 28 September 2011, after which she established a working relationship in the same court at the workplace of a judicial assistant, first at a specified time, and since 1 July 2013, she has been admitted into a working relationship indefinitely. In the period from 26 May 2014 to 26 November 2014, she was sent to the First OJT in Belgrade. For 2011 and 2012, it has not been evaluated since it was in working relation to the specified time, and for 2013 it has been assessed by the assessment "in particular it stands out". He speaks English and German, and according to the opinion of the session of all judges of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, he meets all the conditions laid down in the Law on Judges and Provisions on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of professionality, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents of courts, which was also the reason why the VSS proposed a choice for judges for the judge of the criminal court. Dear People's MPs, you have heard a proposal for candidates regarding these courts, therefore, for one judge for the Basic Court in Cačka, one judge for the Business Court in Uzic and 11 proposals, or 11 judges for the Criminal Court in Belgrade. It's a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. We believe, and I'm convinced it's about the best candidates. You have seen for yourself that in the process of proposing, the High Council of the judiciary has analysed all the parameters which are of importance and which determine that one candidate is proposed or not to be proposed for these extremely important functions, which are, therefore, judicial functions, and all those parameters relating to the expertise, skills and dignity of individual candidates, the results of work in their previous engagement, noting that these results are the results of the work, or evaluations, and we have seen that all these candidates have been assessed with the highest assessment, the assessment - are particularly highlighted. I note that these estimates are based on the opinions of their mentors, i.e. judges with years of experience, who appreciated their work so far and who are in some way the most invited to give their opinion on their work so far. In addition, we appreciated the length of work on the affairs of the judicial assistants. You've seen that there are candidates and judicial assistants who've been doing these jobs for over 10, 15 or 17 years, which speaks of their experience. Finally, I repeat once again that the High Council of the Judiciary was formed in this procedure by a committee that spoke to the candidates. Only for these three competitions, therefore, for these three ads alone for these three judicial functions, the commission held talks with over 200 candidates. We were able to reach a certain conclusion in a direct conversation, in one direct contact with these candidates, and when we put that conclusion in the context of all these other parameters concerning these candidates, we could take certain views. We believe that it is these candidates, who, of course, will, if this Assembly chooses them, give me a very significant contribution, that when it comes to courts, the expertise and efficiency are improved, and I believe that this is the goal and all of us who are participating in this assembly debate today, on the one hand, but I am convinced that this is the goal and all of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33271	I thank Mr. Tomic for this exhaustive explanation. Yes, and the committee's reporter wants a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Miroslav Markicevic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33272	Dear Chairman, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, I am grateful for the exhaustiveness of the proposal that has been explained. But we are referring to Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and we dispute the proposal to elect Ivanovic Ivana under regular number three for the Judge of the Criminal Court in Belgrade. I wouldn't talk about it much. Our knowledge suggests that at this time the proposed candidate could not adequately perform the function to which she was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33273	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33274	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, honourable fellow MPs, after a comprehensive and very reasoned explanation for all candidates as future holders of judicial functions, my parliamentary group of the SPS remains only to give you unreserved support, for several reasons. The first reason is that from the very beginning we represent one principled position, that the Assembly should not have any contribution to the choice of judges, because the judges should choose judges, and we are only here in a way to follow, on behalf of the citizens we represent, what you do, and you are doing really, extremely correct, professionally and responsibly. All that you pointed out through respect for the criteria that all candidates had to meet, which we believe must always be more stringent and stricter, which we believe must always be variable, or evolutionary, and ask you as socialists and representatives of citizens, to raise these criteria to the level that Serbia's justice system will surely be an elite judiciary one day. We do not want, nor do we have the right to engage in the professional references of the candidates proposed here. This also proves the fact that there has been a debate over the election of Ms. and colleague Zagorka Dolovac, in the most inappropriate way by those who have time-consuming problems here affirmed, precisely these problems and caused. If there was a partocrat in the judiciary, let someone else evaluate it, we won't. The SPS parliamentary group is firmly on the stand that it has never dealt with the partocracy in the judiciary, nor has it acted in the judiciary, nor will it do so in the future. What is related to the candidates you have identified here today and for whom you have presented their characteristics in any case deserves both support and praise, support for having passed the complete procedure prescribed by law and procedure set up by the High Council of the judiciary, commendation because these candidates undoubtedly have qualities, it is doubtless have all those references that make them both worthy and professionally similar to professional words to perform a judicial function. I will give myself the right, although I should not, since I come from Uzic and come from the law office and I am tied to the judiciary, to support firmly as your rightful decision as a candidate who will undoubtedly be the holder of a judicial office, or judge of the Court of Justice at Uzic. Katarina Bozovic is a really good solution, a quality solution. It is a copy of the Business Court in Užica, an assistant and associate who proved himself by his quality work and this quality work undoubtedly has a consequence which you yourself have presented, which is that it is by the High Council of the Judiciary and supported. Of course, in this way, in no way do I diminish the quality of all those who are proposed today, who are today identified as those who will be judges and, hopefully, very good judges. At the very end, I would like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group as a clear political message to citizens points out that constitutional changes, which are indicated, must be made to certain changes in the choice of judicial holders, that parliament does not play such a role as is now, that the High Council of the judiciary gets far greater powers in the choice of judges, as I said at the outset, that judges are elected by judges, and that parliament has a supervisory role both over the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the judicial institutions who otherwise submit the report to our relevant committees and parliament. This is the goal of both democracy and prosperity of the judiciary, but also of the highest goal, of the so-called goal. The independence of courts, i.e. the judicial system as a whole. On behalf of our Socialists, I thank you for your dedicated work so far. We wish you even more successful work in the future, with much better solutions, although these so far are extremely good and that only those who deserve it are always doing in courts, which are high-quality judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33275	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, an authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33276	Thank you. Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, we have heard what the proposals for a choice of candidates are today before us. We've heard exhaustive biographies, which we've received. The Serbian Progressive Party unreservedly supports the independent judiciary and the work of an independent judiciary unlike some earlier times, unlike in 2010, when we had judicial reform, when judges were elected in the rooms of parties, when it was seen who was like the regime, who was not. Now the Serbian Progressive Party believes in the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and we are only here to confirm these biographies and these decisions that you have proposed. The Court's burden is such that we need an even greater number of judges, because we have a large number of pending cases from earlier years, with which the lack of judges contributed, as well as the failure of the 2010 reform. I will agree with my colleague Neđa Jovanovic, I am also personally against having judges elected in parliament. I'm here to have a supervisory role in parliament, but to have the judicial branch of power independent and to have the judges pick their own judges. Every time I choose judges, I point out, and now I'm going to repeat, that we need to choose a lot more judges than you're proposing, because the courts are loaded, especially the litigation departments, where some judges are in charge of more than 300 cases, unlike the culprits, whose number is a little smaller. We have a major problem in the executive departments, the legal deadlines for making decisions on execution are not respected, the judges are late with the verdicts, the trustees in the executive procedure suffer, and all this is the reason for the court's burden, and somewhere the ineffectiveness of the court's work. When it comes to these proposed candidates from the biography that you read to us, I hope that the High Council of the Judiciary has managed all these results when proposing these candidates, to the opinion of the college, which is only one of the parameters for selecting judges, the length of internships and the quality of the work so far. I've seen that the colleagues we've been choosing for Cacak and Užice have spent 15, 20 years in court, and I think that's enough to look at the whole issue of the court, the organisational and everything the court is struggling with, to be good judges when we choose them. It is important that the High Council of the judiciary proposes candidates who have been in the judiciary for many years, in order to speed up the work of the judiciary, but also to be professional, to make their work transparent, efficient and to end the proceedings in the best economic way, to respect the principle of economic and efficiency. I hope that when these proposed candidates are elected to judge within a reasonable period of time, that we will not have proceedings for trial in unreasonable time, that the proceedings will not last long, as we have had cases, that there will be no complaints and there will be no impact on their work. We have also heard that, in accordance with the Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary for all candidates has obtained an opinion on the expertise, competence and dignity of the exercise of judicial functions. I will agree that in order to perform such a function it is significant that the candidate fulfils all these conditions, especially to be worthy in his work. I point out that it is important for this election to be about candidates who are professional, who will apply the law, who will schedule discussions within the scheduled deadlines, which will respect so-called. a time frame, to make judgments where the parties will not suffer. The Serbian Progressive Party will support this election, as will any choice so far. We will vote for the proposed candidates in the voting day, and I wish them good luck and success in their work and abide by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33277	Thank you, Mrs. Pantic. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. (Not in the O.R.) The word has Mr. Alexander Markovic. (Not in the O.R.) The word has Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. (Not here) The word is Mr. Risticevic. (Not here) The word is Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic. (Not here) The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Do you want to talk? (No) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33278	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome the special representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary. I want you to feel comfortable here, as always. I think that we are your good hosts, and I agree with colleagues who have expressed their views that we, as MPs and representatives of the people, do not need to choose judges, I think we should leave it to the profession, that through the criteria and criteria that are clearly prescribed for determining the expertise and competence and dignity of the candidate for judges, you do so in the best possible way, through a commission that determines all the elements, and that you also determine by taking interviews, or directly contact the candidates, which is very important, because through a living word you can determine a lot of things, and that physical appearance and intellectual relationship of candidates, which all creates a positive picture of people who have completed legal colleges, who have passed judicial exams. As I can see, more than 250 candidates have appeared for the Belgrade Criminal Court, which shows a very high interest and a great desire for graduates working in various institutions, some are in the judiciary, some are in law, some are in other state bodies, to make the judiciary in Serbia the way we want it to be done. We of the SNS really insist that the judiciary be independent. I, like the other MPs, when we vote, as we have voted so far, do not want my or any of these MPs' names mentioned in a negative context, as some people's names have been mentioned, who have created lists and lists of candidates for prosecutors, for the judges they talk about and will be told about. Of course, it is very important to point out that this was the case until 2009, when it was this famous reform of the judiciary. I think it was a break-up of the Serbian judiciary, which is why we're going to pay huge damage in terms of material and financial terms, because many people have suffered psychological pains, because they're literally targeted by the judiciary, and they didn't deserve it. I expect all these candidates you have proposed in this higher house to have everything they need, which is that they are trained enough to perform this function, that they are professional enough, and we see it from their biographies, and I expect them to be worthy, given that they have also given opinions to the members of this committee, as well as the people and bodies in which they have worked. I guess in the last few years each of them has shown whether he's worthy of performing this function. Today we heard a dissonant tone and a proposal to be made under Article 201. The Rules of Procedure shall, in particular, decide on one candidate. We will think about it very well, because for the first time this is happening in the practice of this Parliament, but you will allow, the law has not been changed yet, so that as MPs, we have the right to take an opinion and have the right to cast a vote on a particular issue, that is, your proposal. I hope that doesn't make you mad. It is our responsibility as representatives of Serbian citizens in the final instance to decide who will perform this function, because these people we choose today will decide tomorrow on fate, of course, on the basis of the law, on those same citizens who vote for us to enter this house. For me, the citizens of Serbia voted to be a MP and they expect me to represent them in the best way in this high house. For this reason, I say you have the support of all of us from the Serbian Progressive Party. Keep doing this, because our desire for the judiciary to be apolytic, to be removed and removed from politics, and that we all preserve our face by voting on our conscience and by knowing that we have done something that was needed and something that the citizens of Serbia asked us to do. Keep doing this. You obviously know how to do that. Obviously, you've fully played as a team that knows how to call a competition transparently, to give the possibility that everyone who wants, who thinks they can, participate in that competition, and to choose the best amongst the many people. You do so and you will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33279	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - The list of candidates for the selection of one member of the council of the REGISTERAL BODY, on the five-year period, has been received a report by the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly with a list of candidates for the Board of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which is selected on a proposal from the Committee. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are two hours and 30 minutes, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 203. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Does the board of directors want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33280	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the list of candidates for the selection of members of the electronic media regulatory body has been proposed on the agenda today, for a period of five years. The Committee on Culture and Information, held on 25 May 2015, launched a regular procedure for proposing candidates and I can inform you that a total of eight parliamentary groups have proposed a united proposal, the SNS, the SPS, the PUPS, the SDP, the Unity Serbia, the New Serbia, the SVM, the SPO and the DHSS have proposed a total of two candidates. The proposed candidates are Olivera Zekic and Ervin Ćatovic. I would like to point out to this occasion that the other parliamentary groups did not exercise their right to propose their candidates at a specific time according to the envisaged procedure. At its meeting on 2 April, the Committee on Culture and Information concluded that it was on the basis of Article 1. The Council of Regulators of Živojin Music suspended the term of office during the time he was elected. Both biographies of the proposed candidates were published on the official website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'd like to read you some information on the proposed candidates. Olivera Zekic was born on March 27th 1975. After education is a graduate politician for journalism and information. The Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade graduated in 1990, with an average score of 9.69. Mrs. Zekic is a political-media consultant. She worked as the editor-in-chief of the daily Borba newspaper, as well as at the Ministry of Science and Technology of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as at the Centre for Political Analysis in Belgrade. As a journalist, she has been working with numerous lists, only some of them are "Blic News", "Rapporteur" and "Telegraf" daily. The second candidate is Ervin Ćatovic, who was born in Pristina on September 12th 1966. Basic and master's studies ended at the University of Pristina, with an average score of nine. He is a regular professor at the University of Pristina Art Faculty, based in Kosovo, Mitrovica. The Serbian Progressive Party and these proposals want to show that it advocates the independence of the electronic media, for the independence of the seventh force in Serbia, and I want this opportunity to invite all fellow MPs to support one of the candidates in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33281	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33282	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, after the end of the term of office of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, today, in accordance with the law, we choose a new member of this council. In the opinion of the parliamentary group, two extremely high-quality candidates are ahead of us. Members of the Council, by law, shall be elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of authorised proposings, and in this case the proposed committee shall be the committee responsible, which shall be the Committee on Culture and Information. Following the decision to initiate the procedure for proposing candidates, the Committee also held talks with these two candidates and submitted this designated list of candidates to us for consideration. Let us not forget that this regulatory body issues permits for the provision of media services, but also prescribes binding rules for media service providers and ultimately exercises control over their work. According to the law, these powers aim to effectively implement a established policy in the field of media services provision in the Republic of Serbia, to improve the quality and diversity of electronic media services, to contribute to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression, and all in order to protect public interest in the field of electronic media and to protect users of electronic media services, in accordance with the provisions of the law and in a manner appropriate to democratic society. Starting from these powers, our responsibility in the election of a member of the Council is certainly great. Today, we should choose a new member of the Council, who needs his experience and attitudes and must contribute to the implementation of the situation in Serbia's media space, and as for the position of the media, as well as the quality of the media content itself. Years ago, the National Assembly as the most legislative body and executive authority, as well as professional associations and other institutions, each within its jurisdiction is doing everything possible to improve the situation in Serbia's media space. It is the media that has the greatest influence on the formation of attitudes, even greater influence on citizens and perhaps on the education system. Nothing overnight, of course, can change, but if we want a healthy society, we have to turn to younger generations and influence their development and values. A very important place, of course, in the media space and the arrangement of media space has this very regulatory body for electronic media. The MPs had the opportunity to get acquainted with these two candidates at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, discuss their experiences, their work, their views on the media, and, of course, we had the opportunity to hear what the priorities would be if they were elected. The council, by the way, counts nine members. Each member is elected on a proposal from one of the mandated promoters and, as I said, in this case we choose the candidate proposed by the Committee of the National Assembly. The very composition of the Council is diverse in terms of profession and profile, but all candidates have one common denominator, they are qualified to perform this function and are accomplished in their professions, therefore ready to give their knowledge in the general interest. And these two candidates between whom we're going to define ourselves today have one great work experience and rich biography. It is encouraging, because no matter which member of these two candidates we choose, the Council will get a high-quality member. The rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information referred briefly to the biography of these two candidates. When it comes to the SPS, we analyzed both biographies, actually biographies of both candidates. In this case, we would prefer Mrs Oliveri Zekic. When making a decision on selecting one of these two candidates, we were thinking about her professional biography too much, about the experience she has in the media and, of course, about all the affairs of this regulatory body. In addition, as representatives of the less-represented half, another criterion is important, and that is certainly the representation of women in this body, because of the nine members of this Council, everything is one woman. I would therefore, besides this most important one, which is the expertise, education and experience this candidate has in the media, also advocate as the coordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network that my colleagues respect this principle, the principle of gender equality. As I said, both candidates are really good quality, and no matter who we vote on today, the Council will get a high-quality member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-24-0.u33283	Thank you. Anyone else want a word from the authorized representatives? (No) We have Milan Petric from the MPs. He's not here. Zoran Zivkovic is not there either, as is Vladimir Pavicevic. So, since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if anyone might want to exercise their right to Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I'm finishing the search. In voting day, the National Assembly will decide on the election of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media from a list proposing two candidates. Moving to point 7. Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a motion for a decision in the voting day. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Friday, July 24, 2015, starting at 13.00, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. So, in about 13 minutes, I'll see you at the vote. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. [[after breaks]] I ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units for the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 139 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. I'll put you to vote one. A proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Health Council of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, abstentioned – one, voted four of the total of 146 Members present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Health Council of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, v – one, abstention – one, two of the total of the 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a judge who was first elected to the judge's office, who submitted the High Council of the judiciary on 25 June 2015, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, no one, abstentioned – two, voted one of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a judge who was first elected to the judge's office, who submitted the High Council of the judiciary on 15 June 2015, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted one of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Before we approach the vote on the motion for a decision, I remind you of the provision of Article 201(4). The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, according to which, when it comes to candidates for the holders of judicial functions, a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and a proposal to elect candidates who are not disputed to decide in general, by public vote. National MP Miroslav Markicevic, at a session of the National Assembly, challenged candidate Ivana Ivanovic. I therefore first propose to elect Ivana Jovanovic, whose proposal has been challenged at the National Assembly session. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not elected candidate Ivana Ivanovic. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, without a disputed candidate, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, abstentioned – one, voted two of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 8. The Law on Electronic Media, a member of the Council, was elected if the majority of the total number of MPs voted for his election. I remind you that on the list of candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body, there are two candidates and that you can only vote for one of them. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Olivera Zekic, a graduate journalist for journalism and information as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – one, abstention – one, two of the total of the 11 people present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, has elected Oliver Zekic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ervin H. Ćatović, Master of Painting as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Ervin H. Ćatovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, all the public functions that we have chosen today and wish them a lot of success in their work. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, on 7 July 2015, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 145 of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
