ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 134 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in the adoption of the minutes exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 166 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19648	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP of the New Party, was illegally prevented from entering the Assembly Hall this morning by my court.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19649	Excuse me, just a member of the Rules of Procedure, so I can follow you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19650	Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which speaks of maintaining order at the session. I repeat, MP Zoran Zivkovic has been unlawfully prevented from entering our Assembly Hall of the National Assembly this morning and since the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly that there is no document in the light of any kind of solution that could justify this kind of procedure for Zoran Zivkovic, I ask you, by respecting the Constitution of our Republic, the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to allow Zoran Zivkovic, as one of the 250 MPs here to enter the Assembly today, to work uninterruptedly as a National MP and to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19651	Ambassador, I must interrupt you. The session wasn't open for one, I thought you had something else to say. Under two, article 108 refers to something else, sit down while we open the session. Think about what you'll call yourself. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19652	Madam Chairman, my question will be for the Minister of Culture and Information. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic announced in an exhibition an accelerated work on creating and implementing a strategy for the cultural development of society and cultural ambience in society. There is a public debate on the Law on Culture, which is very good. It is also a re-opening of the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art, which SPO and DHSS fully support. Public or cultural policy has been tasked with defining the objectives of cultural development, actors entrusted with tasks that lead to the achievement of the objectives set, instruments and mechanisms for the implementation of cultural policy. Cultural policy is modelled in different ways, which the model applies depends on the general situation in the country and on how culture is defined at national level. Laws and finances are the most important instruments in implementing cultural or public policy. The legal system of a single society reflects all its basic values. We are like a parliamentary group of opinions that, in addition to all the institutions of culture on public culture, media have a major impact, especially television. The media influences the emotions, the perception of citizens, the behavior and the crucial influence of public behavior. The media is affecting all spheres of life. The biggest effect of the media's impact is the strengthening of existing beliefs. However, media freedoms in Serbia are often experienced in a vulgar way, and right now I want to say that the SPO with DHS is an absolute advocate of media freedoms and against every form of censorship, but there are great manipulations in the name of freedom of the media. In the name of freedom of the media, media freedom is often abused. In the name of freedom, lies, half-truths, slanders, threats, spread hatred, debauchery, and thus polluting public space. Such freedom of expression destroys freedom itself. Freedom is not about looseness, irresponsibility and chaos. Freedom that destroys universal values such as truth, justice, good, love, beauty, solidarity, human dignity is not freedom but verbal and written torture and social violence. We believe that any uncontrollable power is dangerous and destructive, and such is the dangerous and devastating uncontrollable power of the media. The media particularly television, are designed to be consumed by a wide audience, a broad public opinion. The media features are that they have a strong influence on the formation and way of thinking to the public about value systems in the mood. Mass media are social institutions that function within certain rules, rights and policies that employ qualified staff and keep them in their procedures, even if we think they should hire qualified staff. The media has a big educational role to play. They influence the education of the minds of young people and our opinion is that young people are still good to us in view of the messages they receive from the media with national frequencies, and here I don't mean public services, RTS, RTTV, which largely respect what I'm talking about in the opinion of our parliamentary group that it's compromised. What is my question for the Minister of Culture, it is number one – since national frequencies are national good, in the culture development strategy, what will the Ministry of Culture do in agreement with the National Council for Culture to improve media content and that the cultural form of one society begins to create in another way and question number two – when will the Ministry of Culture and Information adopt a strategy for cultural development in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19653	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19654	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to draw your attention today that on 16 and 17 January 2009, a serious crime of unauthorized incursion, armed ambush and attempted murder of SDA Sandzak and then Prime Minister Dr Sulejman Ugljanin took place in Novi Pazar. For the past six years, the crime has not been solved, and clearly it has been shown and proved to be a string and organization between the employers, the perpetrators and the competent authorities who did not even prevent the crime, and later they did not shed light on it. On January 16th and 17th 2009, a group of armed men broke into the official premises of SDA Sandzak, which were then held under armed siege for two days. In addition to an unauthorized incursion on 17 January 2009, they attempted the murder of the top SDA Sandzak leadership on several occasions, and in the first place, President Sulejman Ugljanin, who, as I said, was also the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Their attempts to kill the top Bosniak political leadership were brutal, pre-organised and concocted. First, they threw heavy concrete jars and tables at the heads of the party's leadership from the balcony and stairs, and then fired more shots at Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin. I would like to inform you that the municipal court in Novi Pazar has ruled that this armed group has violated the right of state, and thus the constitutional principle of inviolability of the apartment, however, has not gone beyond that. In addition to the above, this case has not been resolved to date, as have numerous other cases, unsolved cases of crimes committed against Bosniaks in the 1990s, I believe this is an extremely bad message that the state and state authorities are sending to their citizens of Bosniak nationality. I remind you that only after 20 years has it begun to solve the kidnapping, torture and murder of Bosniaks from the train in Strpci, and therefore I want to ask whether it is necessary to wait 20 years for this crime to be solved, or perhaps waiting for one of the Bosniak political representatives to be killed, so that only then, after 20 years, it begins to solve this crime? With this in mind, I ask the competent state authorities to do their job, to launch an investigation and to press charges against the employers of all the perpetrators and all the helpers in connection with the unauthorized incursion and armed ambush in the official premises of our party and regarding the attempted murder of President Sandzak and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Dr Sulejman Ugljanin from 16 January to 17 January 2009. I ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Republic Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime - who are the persons who have been unauthorized and armed to the teeth, who of them endangered the lives of the SDA Sandzak leadership and attempted to murder by throwing heavy objects at the head; who shot at Dr Sulejman Ugljanin that evening, the president of the party and the minister in the government of this country; who is then the mayor of New Pazar and members of the city council; what is the role of the head of the MUP in Novi Pazar and his deputy; what is the role of the then district court and district attorney in Novi Pazar and who are the people from Belgrade with whom they say were in a permanent relationship? Today it's been over for six years, and we still don't have a verdict, and not even a indictment about it, and then someone says nothing's been covered up here? I expect answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19655	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19656	Thank you, Madam President. My question will refer to the already raised issue on December 16th, which I referred to the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and I ask you to pledge by your authority that, in accordance with Article 287(4), I receive a reply within 15 days, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Therefore, on 1 March 2013, the Law establishing the public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documents entered into force in order to implement the construction of the natural gas transport system "South Stream". It was then announced that about 8,000 hectares of land would be exploited and that the total value of the land would be around 24m euros. My question is, what is the area of the land on which the expropriation has already been carried out, and what will be the purpose of this land? We have received information that, for example, expropriation continues to take place in the town of Panchev, and we all know that the project "South Stream" has been abandoned. The next question is - what is the government's plan with the application of this law, i.e. will the process of expropriation for the "South Stream" be suspended or will it be implemented until the end and for what purpose will it be implemented? To monitor the realisation of the construction of the South Stream pipeline, Article 15 of the law provides for the education of the occasional working body made up of representatives of the ministry, universities, scientific institutions and engineering chambers of Serbia. My questions are - who are members of this working body, by which criteria have they been chosen, how many times has this working body been occupied and what is the total amount of compensation paid to each of the members of that working body? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19657	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19658	President, my question will refer to several resolution ministers, related to changes and additions to the Transport Safety Act. I believe that this is a systemic problem and that this problem cannot be solved only within the Ministry of Transport or within the Ministry of Police. Namely, Transport Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and Deputy Prime Minister said before New Year's Eve that the task force had completed amendments and additions to the Security Act. My question to her is – when will this bill be addressed to the government and when will the government refer the bill to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for consideration? Why do I say it's a system problem? Just two days ago, we had a car accident again, where two girls in Surcin just happened to avoid death. Serbia must solve the problem of young people's suffering, but also the problem of boastful drivers. With this in mind, given that the bill is already in place, I would also have a few questions for Transport Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and Interior Minister Stefanovic. My first question concerns whether, in the context of the amendment to the Security Act, they have reconsidered criminal policy, primarily because of the arrogant drivers? My second question concerns inadequate training of drivers, and are certain changes being prepared in that area? The third question concerns that we do not have a strategy on traffic safety. My opinion is that the application of every law depends on a well-prepared strategy, on attitudes and criteria, as they are set. Also, I would like to ask Minister Verbic if, in 2015 and 2016, in the framework of curricula and programmes, we will have more security-related content in traffic, with the aim that our children from the earliest age will have knowledge and develop awareness about it? I would also ask Milan Bozovic, acting director of the Transport Safety Agency – is the Agency planning to launch a campaign in 2015 to prevent traffic security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19659	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19660	Thank you. First of all, I would like to refer, as well as my colleague Senic, to ask you to check what is going on with our parliamentary issues, because we are really getting into the press that the government is not responding to them. I think you have some business opportunities to influence them that they still answer when they fail to do so within the time limit, so I ask you to do the same thing with these questions. We have a few questions. First of all, I'm not sure who to refer to, because whoever's supposed to be referred to, has several times been declared incompetent, but let's try again, Mr. Verbic, so let him forward if he thinks he's still out of control, let him forward to those ministers he thinks should be dealt with. Is Mr Verbic aware that the school year has begun, that he still has not solved the problem of the strike of the Enlightenment, that these people are announcing for January 26th the radicalisation of the protests? Is there any way to convince this man that the problem of public sector income is not paid by teachers of 36,000 dinars, but by salaries in public enterprises, and in certain public enterprises, the average profit is 440,000 dinars? If Mr Verbic continues to feel that he is not in charge, he should ask one of the ministers he holds responsible for solving the strike of educational workers or at least let him answer the question when paying classes will be introduced. It's also another story we've been listening to for three years now, because it'll allow someone with a high level of expertise, and he's employed at some school, no salary of 36,000 dinars, that someone with a primary school at some agency has a salary of 300 or 400,000 dinars. The second question is equally important, if not more important, and it concerns what we risk being exposed to a new napkin of insults, accusations, labels and persecution. It is about the Tamnavian spears, a text published on the pumping of the same ones, about the scandalous reaction of the prime minister, about today's headline in the paper that the EU is trying to kidnap 23,200,000 euros from Serbia. My question is is is it true that the Public Procurement Act is not respected in the conduct of a tender for this job, that a Romanian company is listed as a subcontractor in the documentation itself, which was subsequently changed to a Dutch firm, which itself participated in the tender? Is it true that the company that has been given a part-time job owned by the godfather of Aleksandar Vukic, Nikola Petrovic, has already been mentioned several times in this Assembly, because somehow it turns out that there is no way to talk about public enterprises in our country, and that Mr. Petrovic, who is quite accidentally the godfather of Mr. Vukic, is not coming out? Can Mr. Vukic provide any evidence that the EU is destroying the Serbian government? Speaking of which, he might be able to deliver evidence when he said the same thing about six or seven months ago. Can he, when answering this question, try to use facts rather than accusations, because it's very important for citizens to hear them? Mr. Vukic apparently became allergic to mention tycoons slowly created in his nearest environment. The third issue concerns something that is of equal interest to the citizens of Serbia, and it is about the Serbian Bank. We, apart from a firm promise from the prime minister's personal guarantee that he personally guarantees that no one's funds will fail, have heard in what way Serbia intends to save that bank from collapse. What's the structure of the placement, how many uncharging loans are in it? Why does that happen in such silence? What are these people hoping for? In addition to the Vucic promise, in which, don't mind, rightfully no one believes, citizens who have any deposits in that bank can have any guarantee that their funds won't fail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19661	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19662	Dear Presidents, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are witnessing permanent, daily, extremely tenently malicious and untrue media attacks on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. Such brutal media attacks are the work of the mob-tacun crime-political groups both domestic and foreign implementations. Media attacks have become very dangerous for the prime minister's personal safety, as they even call for murder, which has not been recorded in the history of human civilization that one prime minister is calling for murder. Remember the mounted media attacks on his son, Daniel, that he was involved in an abortion fight, which was a notorous lie. Furthermore, physical attacks on his brother, Andrej, in the middle of Belgrade, have shocked most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's not enough for them either, but some media are even calling for the prime minister's murder. The media attacks included BIRN, Balkan Investigative Reporting, by lying that there was manipulation over the election of a company that would be in charge of pumping water in the dipping "Tamnava - Western Field", which is of course not true, which was also denied by the World Bank, stressing that the tender was conducted in accordance with the applicable regulations. Dear citizens, BIRN published a draft contract by the government of the Republic of Serbia with Etyhad a few months ago. That's when the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, first denied BIRN. BIRN is a follow-up to a media organisation known as "Advise for War and Peace Research", and was remembered in Serbia for publishing a false text by a royal journalist Filipovic, who accused the Yugoslav Army of deliberately killing at least 800 Albanian children under five years of age in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, which was a notorous lie. Filipovic was convicted in the Military Court of Defamation and Spying, and was pardoned by five-octobar revolutionaries later. The attack on the prime minister also included NUNS for the president's comments on the writing of BIRN, arguing that it was an open pressure from the authorities and the threat of freedom and the media, which is not true because the prime minister's response was correct, which means it was just and just, which means it was true. The World Bank's reaction confirmed that. Gentlemen of NUNS, the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of expression and criticism, but this is also true in the opposite direction, i.e. that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its prime minister have the right, and I would also say that they have an obligation, in an argument, to deny the truths, as was the last case. Last year, in one of the biggest tragedies for our people in the flooded area, some tried to exploit it by attacking the prime minister again, accusing him of taking something off the site, which proved to be a notorious lie and false. It is the right of the Prime Minister to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, which Mr. Vukic makes extraordinary, but that is also an obligation. I know one thing for sure, respected citizens of Serbia, that in these untruths no one will distract him, because I know how much he loves the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia above all else. The attacks included the wonderful none other than Jovo Bakic, a docent of sociology and so primitive and non-civilization that it was not appropriate, as my Dalmatians would say, "no donkey, let alone a docent". Its primitiveism should be judged by students and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and by judges and history, because it has not forgiven anyone. Finally, I am asking the judicial authorities and the prosecution of the Republic of Serbia – are there elements to protect Mr. Vukic and the Prime Minister as an institution, because it is a very dangerous matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19663	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19664	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, as this is the first session of this year, I want to start by wishing all of you and the citizens of Serbia the most successful work and everything beautiful this year. Today I refer my question to the Minister of Mining and Energy Mr. Alexander Antić, and it is related to the company's company for the supply of electricity "SouthEast" by Nis. I request that that company provide information on the identity of all low-voltage tenants for the purpose of broadcasting cable television signals in the area that falls within the jurisdiction of this public enterprise, starting from 2010 until today. To provide us with information on whether there are concluded contracts with all the tenants and to provide copies of these contracts for insight. That this same company provides us with information on whether all branches of this public undertaking were obliged to conclude identical contracts with all tenants and in accordance with the tender documentation. To provide us with information on whether the directors of the branch were authorised to modify the text of the contracts they concluded with the tenants, which was an integral part of the tender documentation. Also, this company provides us with information on whether the directors of the branch were authorised to sign these contracts with the tenants and if they were authorised under whose authority. Also, to provide us with information on whether the tenants on today settled their obligations under signed contracts, to deliver all invoices of this company to the tenants and evidence of paid commitments, i.e. executions. Please, President, give us these questions, because they are very important to our citizens. I've already asked a few questions, and I didn't get an answer for any of them. Twenty days ago, I asked this same ministry a question, and I didn't get an answer, so I'm asking you to get this answer within the legal time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19665	Thank you. I would like to inform you that by preventing the sittings from being attended by the following MPs: Stefana Miladanovic, Sinisa Maksimovic and Susana Spasojevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within the time limit set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need to consider proposals for the agenda law, which was set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session. You have been presented the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted that committee in writing an objection to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 4, 5 and 8 December 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 41 of the 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the meeting of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a request for maintenance of the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, has been delivered to you, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2015, the following D n e n e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Business Society Act; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and 3. Proposal for a bill to confirm the loan agreement for a credit to a privileged buyer for the second phase of the KOSTOLAC-BOJ PLANT PROJECT project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform review be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society Laws; the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan for a Loan for a Preferred Customer for the second phase of the KOSTOLAC-BOJ PLANT PROJECT Project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – three abstentions – no, 27 of the total attendance of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected gentlemen from the Ministry, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I believe that several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured, beginning with members 108, through members 114, 115, and members of 283 in which, for example, the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, one of the MPs, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, came to this Assembly this morning, and tried to enter this hall to carry out his duties under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on the National Assembly and the Constitution of our Republic. National MP Zoran Zivkovic was illegally prevented from entering our National Assembly's hall this morning, in my court, to take part in a debate on these three draft laws. As the Presidents of the National Assembly, since there is no document in the form of one solution, let me say, the decisions of any body of the National Assembly, or of yours, for example, which could justify this kind of procedure towards Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic, please, honourabled presidents, Mrs Gojkovic, that, by respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, allow the National MP Zoran Zivkovic to regularly, as he likes every MP here, fulfils his duties in the National Assembly, which means that Mr Zoran Zivkovic, who regularly applied for the word for discussion today, provides the right to participate in the debate on these three draft laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19667	Thank you. You're wrong, MP, I assume you know that. At a session at which MP Zivkovic told the chairman, Igor Becic, that cattle were given the sentence provided for by the Rules of Procedure, more warnings in a series that meant a distance from the session, and according to article 108 you called on. There's no way out of this decision. I've been an MP for twenty-something years in this House, so that's not what it is. The Management Board shall impose a financial penalty, which shall be imposed. I think it's a member. I'm convinced he's a member of 113. Rules of Procedure, to measure the distance from the session, shall be taken from the decision of the Administrative Board. So it's 20 working days in session. So MP Zivkovic will have the right to participate when he spends 20 working days in the meeting. It's already been a few, a little patience to think about respecting this house and we'll have the right to participate, and now, excuse me, one important guest is coming to parliament, so someone else will continue to hold the session. Here you go. Excuse me, do you want to vote? Yeah. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19668	According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Željko Sertic, Minister of Industry, Dr Dusan Vujovic, Finance Minister, Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy, Mr Mirjana Filipovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Milovan Filimovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Verica Ignatovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Milun Trivunac, Assistant Minister of Industry, and Ivana Janackovic and Andrijana Stojkovic of the Ministry of Economy. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on proposals for the agenda under points 1 to 3, and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportion of MPs, members of parliamentary groups. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Economic Society, Proposal for Laws and Amendments of the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a Loan for a Preferred Customer for the Second Phase of the KOSTOLAC-BOJ PLANT PROJECT Project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which represents the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower and Chinese Export- as a Borrower. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19669	Thank you. Dear Representatives, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that we will be joined very quickly by colleague Sertic, Minister of Industry and that today, of course during the day, first and foremost, he and I will try to give all the necessary answers and explanations for these three legislative proposals. I'm going to try to give these opening remarks briefly. I am here primarily because of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the project Kostolac, phase two, but until my colleague Sertic arrives, I will give some arguments concerning two laws, whose proposer is the Ministry of Economy. First of all, I am referring to the amendment and addition of the Business Society Act, which was initiated in order to prevent potential adverse consequences of the fact of applicable legal restrictions in the work relating to the area of status regulation and change, i.e. the availability of individual companies' own actions, i.e. non-public action societies, from adopting the proposed solutions. This specifically refers to Telecom Serbia ad, as a company of special importance for the Republic of Serbia, as well as its numerous shareholders, citizens, employees and former employees, whose significant part of the underlying capital, i.e. 20% expressed through so-called. own actions, owned by Telecom Serbia itself. I would like to remind you that Telecom Serbia's ownership of those actions has been acquired by the realisation of the transaction of their purchase from former minority shareholder Telecom Serbia's telecommunications company Ote in January 2012. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws in the shortest possible way, introduces the following solutions regarding the issue of own actions of stock companies which are not considered public within the meaning of the rules governing the capital market area, under one, increasing the percentage of their own actions through the mentioned categories of stock companies which may contain in their portfolio without obligation to cancel after the expiry of the three-year period, from the date on which they are acquired from the existing 10% to 20%, as provided for in these amendments and the additions of the laws and under two, retain the obligations of the right to prevent the purchase of existing shareholders in the event of alienation of their own actions and only for categories of public shareholders, which excludes the possibility that companies which are not public by decision of their corporate bodies allow the exercise of the right of purchase of existing shareholders in the event of alienation of their own actions, if this is no longer their legal obligation. You've been given the law, you've been given an explanation of the law, I wouldn't read a detailed explanation of the actions, but the essence of the proposed legal solution is to remove the possibility of harmful consequences for balances, above all "Telecoma". It is important that these legal solutions be adopted by January 25th, so that the existing ownership structure and existing number of actions are maintained at this level and no disturbances in the ownership structure itself, as well as any other balance sheet of Telecom. Of course, that's where Mr Sertic will be when he joins us and I will be available for all additional answers. You are facing amendments to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia which redefines the way the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for its obligations. The Development Fund Act regulates the work of the Development Fund as a legal person performing credit-approval operations, guaranteeing, purchase of securities of value, acquisition of shares and shares on the basis of legal transactions, including the conversion of claims, as well as other matters on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. The reason why amendments to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia are proposed is that one of the basic objectives of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015 is to define fiscal consolidation in the coming period, specifically by reducing deficits and by halting public debt growth, as well as by establishing a trend in their decline. To facilitate the achievement of these objectives, it is a priority to conclude an arrangement with the IMF that would give credibility to reforms and ensure a more favourable position for the state in the international financial market. The debt created on the basis of the Fund's obligation to develop for which the Republic of Serbia guarantees, particularly on the basis of a direct commitment from the debtor to pay off the debt on the basis of guarantees issued by the Fund, would constitute the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, and, therefore, the obligation to pay off on the basis of the guarantee is conditional upon the obligation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to pay off the dues, and not an outstanding commitment on the basis of the guarantee given unless the debtor fulfils his obligation on a timely basis in accordance with the conditions laid down in a concrete loan contract. In the text of the applicable law, the Fund also adopts an annual plan. In accordance with this, it is bound by the conditions set out in that plan only for the year in question. The proposed changes seek to achieve greater transparency and availability of funds from the Fund for the Economic Development of the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of the Fund programme, for which not only is it brought for the year in question, future credit beneficiaries will have information on the conditions of lending, regardless of which year and whether they apply for that year or whether these credit conditions define them for a longer period of time. Repeat. You have a law before you, an explanation. Two are the key things. First, the Republic of Serbia is coming out of a system related to the Fund for Development and the second, there is no longer a restriction on the annual plan of the Fund itself. Finally, what, first of all, is my area. Today, there is a proposal for a bill to confirm the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the second phase of the project "Costolac Intelligent PLANT PROJECT" and I want to say today that today is one important day for the Republic of Serbia, for all citizens, of course, and for the Assembly because today by adopting this law Serbia is making this key step that will lead us to the construction of a new energy facility, I must say, the first major energy facility to be worked in the Republic of Serbia after more than two decades, an energy facility that will have an extremely significant impact on the stability of our energy system, an energy facility that needs to provide for the time that is before us safe, a stable supply of electricity to all our users, I think of citizens and businesses, an energy facility that is without any serious development opportunity for the Republic of Serbia, because the word of investment that our capacity is necessary and that we need to secure our new business, when we find a new location, when we find our new location, when we find new jobs. It is about building an energy facility capacity, installed 350 megawatt power, but also part of the project includes increasing the capacity of surface Kopa "Drno" to 12 million tonnes annually from the current nine million. So all in all energy terms is an extremely important project that has a significant impact on our production of electricity. With the new 350 megawatts, the whole system will be far more stable, and we will have the possibility that our energy system has better balances, to be better balanced in the time ahead, and the time that lies before us without any dilemma will bring in the energy sector two things. One thing is to increase electricity consumption and another need to give as a responsible society in the time ahead through the construction of new energy facilities and private investors, as well as the state to make our system fully stable and secure by building new energy facilities. I'm gonna do a little dyspression. I would like to remind you that just before the New Year we adopted the new Energy Act, that this Energy Act, in addition to transposing measures from the EU directive, which we have been obliged to sign the Energy Community Treaty to apply since 1 January 2015, that, in addition to strengthening the role of the Energy Agency as an independent regulatory body, it has brought above all these key changes to create conditions for this new investment climate in the energy field, one serious incentive and an invitation for all interested investors to build energy facilities in Serbia. When private investors are concerned primarily with renewable energy, and very soon we will all be able to track one truly serious expansion of these new objects, first of all, from renewable sources, and I remind you that we as a state, through the energy development strategy in this regard, have defined this incentive and the privileged tariffs for something over 1000 megawatts of electricity from renewable sources, of which is about 50% from wind energy, then the following are at the strength of mini power plants, but of course there are solar power plants, energy plants from biomass, of course from thermal energy. In the time ahead, we will have these energy facilities, I believe by 2020, almost everything in an installed force of over 1,000 megawatts, thus achieving our obligation to make 27% of total energy consumption from renewable elections by 2020. Of course, we also have a modernization of existing capacities ahead of us. First of all, I'm thinking about the ones from the thermal power plant. First of all, we think of large bars with our obligation to modernize these large bars in the time ahead and of course, we are ahead of us to build new objects. When it comes to new objects, I will repeat what I said just a few weeks ago in front of this House and speak. We're doing a few serious and big projects. One of these projects, which is in the planning phase and I believe that in 2015 we will take serious steps towards putting these plans into some investment framework. First of all, I mean expanding the production of coal in the Stavalj mine, with the construction of new power plants from 300 to 350 megawatts. We're also doing a serious project. We have a working group that is trying, at the head of this task force, is my Secretary of State, Mrs Mirjana Filipovic, to create some framework for possible investment related to the expansion of coal production in the Kovin mine with the possibility of building and in this place another power plant for electricity production. The project that defacto unites and all that we will have to do in the next period, I repeat, to rehabilitate and do the revitalization of existing large bars and on the other hand to build new objects is precisely this project "Kostolac". This project "Kostolac" is something that has been done for several years since the first contract of 2010 and contained several elements. One element is the revitalisation of existing blocks at the "Kostolac B", B1 block and B2 that are 350 megawatts, then the de-sumption project for two existing blocks at the Termo Power Plant B. It's a phase that's been working, which has been working over the past few years. A few days ago, we visited the "Kostolac B" thermal power plant, and I believe that as of today, if not today, no later than tomorrow, the revitalized block in Kostolc, here, my colleague tells me, today she will be on the network in full power of 350 MW and that part of the job is extremely significant and now we have one secure, stable block that can drive with full capacity, or full power of 350 MW. What is ahead of us is the second phase of this project, what is ahead of us is, I say, the developmental opportunity of this whole project, and it is related to the increase of the production of coal mine "Drno" from the existing nine million to the new 12 million and the construction of a new block, Block B3, installed power 350 MW. I'm gonna do a little dyspression. This congregation adopted the first phase of the loan agreement. We worked hard, worked seriously, and we managed to negotiate with the Chinese side all the elements of the second stage contract and I have to realize that these elements are significantly better than those of those elements that some of the previous governments managed to negotiate on the first stage. The amount of credit in the second phase is 608,260,000 US dollars with a 20-year repayment deadline, including a seven-year grace period. I'll remind you, in the first phase, your conditions were different. Grace's period was five years, and the payment deadline was 15 years, so I repeat, we were able to provide these starting elements significantly better than it was in 2011. For the first stage, I repeat, the grace period at five years has been increased by seven years and the payment deadline from 15 to 20 years. The interest rate has been reduced from the first stage of 3% annually to 2.5%, and this is one big savings for the citizens of Serbia and our budget, but it has also reduced all those other elements related to the loan contract. What I think should be particularly stressed here is that the loan management fee from 0.75% was reduced to 0.25% to the total amount of credit. I repeat, a financially advantageous arrangement, I think that this is one of the best financial arrangements that have ever been agreed for such large projects and investments in Serbia, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, this is an extremely important investment for the Republic of Serbia, for our entire energy system, for the future of our entire economy, because the time ahead will bring new economic growth and development, and the time ahead will, together with this new economic growth and development, lead us to a greater amount of electricity being needed as a state and society, and this is the first step in building new large energy facilities that Serbia without any dilemma will have to build. I call on you, at the very end, to support all these three legislative solutions, these amendments to the Law on Economic Society and the Development Fund, which are very specific and very meaningful and very important because, on the one hand, the amendments to the Law on Economic Society protects the value of Telecom, and on the other hand, the Fund for Development, amending that law and defining some rules of the game are part of the necessary measures of our fiscal stabilisation and, I repeat, I call on all MPs to support these laws. On the other hand, of course, I must call on the Assembly one more time that, realizing the importance of the Kostolac B project and building a new energy facility and expanding the production of coal on the copy of "Drno" to support this law together, because this is a law that provides energy for Serbia's future and for our entire economic and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19670	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No one wants to discuss the law? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19671	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, we have heard the explanation of the Minister for the Change of the Law on Economic Society and the Change of the Law on the Development Fund of Serbia, of course, and of the loan and new responsibilities of the RS. I think that one of the issues that have been most public these days, first of all, privatisation, in fact, is the change of the Law on Economic Society and the way in which the contract signed to take action by the Greek OTE, three years ago, will be defined in this law and brought into line with the legal restriction of the maximum share of personal actions, its own actions in its business society. I think it's very important to say the next thing. It is obvious that the Privatisation Treaty, which was attacked by the opposition in 2012, and the current authorities, where the DS was primarily accused of selling Telecom, after the Prime Minister's exhibition some seven months ago, announced the persistent privatisation of Telecom and created an atmosphere in the system, which has lasted two and a half years, that domestic management, that our company is insufficiently capable of developing its telecommunications and information capacities and I think it creates a bad atmosphere of inferiority on this market. I will remind you that we have opened the market in good time and that Telecom in serious competition with Telenor and VIP is fighting the battle on this telecommunications market and I think it is very important to say in what atmosphere we are now doing this change of law. I will remind you of the entire "Telecom" privatisation gene since 1997, when 49% of the stock was sold, 20% of the shares to Greek OTE, which are the subject of these changes to the Business Society Act, 29% to Telecom Italy, for some 1.5 billion German marks, it is equivalent to around 750m euros. I will remind you of a very important move in 2002 by the government of the RS and Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, which in 2002 for 195m euros in negotiations with the Italian partner, with Telecom Italy, returned those 29% of the actions of Telecom, the most important communication system, the system of the most important, I will dare, for the modern development of RS, and made a new relationship with 80% of Serbia's state and 20% of the remaining OTE actions. Major attacks were on the announcement of "Telecom" privatisation in 2012, but the moment the price was reached that did not satisfy the RS government, which is the equivalent of 950m for 50% of the capital, it was a criterion for the value of 20% of the Greek OTE's capital, which was then paid 380m euros. Regardless of all the attacks on the Democratic Party, here you can see through these moves that the Democratic Party on two occasions returned to Serbia family silver, values that are extremely important, not only for the past, but also for future scientific and technological, communication and information development in the Republic of Serbia. It is indisputable for us to protect the interests of Telecom at this time because it is necessary for Serbia, but it is not acceptable for the Democratic Party and for me personally to expire seven days before the deadline, because January 25th is the date of closing of the contract, and this contract was signed on 30 December 2012 with the deadline in the Business Society Act, that within three years, "Teleko Serbia" and the state of Serbia comply with the law of the maximum 10% possession of personal actions in their own company, those 10% to 20% or alienate them on the market. It's been three years. For three years, responsibility has passed, for this government two and a half and a half years before the government that did the whole job. I don't think it's principled and the Democratic Party is not going to support this proposal and change this law precisely because of this impeccableness which is obviously similar to that of impunity, because here we have had the opportunity to plead and postpone the application of the Public Property Act. What is this law I'm talking about right now? It is obvious that the adoption of this company law is in fact a preparation for the privatisation of Telecom. That's the point, and we heard it on the Committee on Economy, and that's what the Minister of Economy said, which is not here, and I'm sorry about that. I know, Mr. Minister, that this isn't your portfolio, but it's very important that we share that thought. You were part of the entire coalition, and surely you are well aware of the whole process and the privatisation process of Telecom. But we have seen that this government announces the privatisation of Telecom, and this is obviously a preparation for the privatisation of Telecom. I think it's important for us here in the O.R., but also for the sake of the public, to remind the current structure in the capital of Telecom. I will say that DS will be against this kind of privatisation as announced by the prime minister in his exposé, where one of the arguments was – we do not have the ability to manage, we do not have the ability to manage, we will introduce him on the side, and that is the condition that we develop in this area. I argue that we have both capable people and I think it is necessary to give this management of Telecom a chance, because it is not possible to manage this system effectively in the market with this kind of competition if you decide that 70% of the net profit of this system, which, in such difficult conditions, generates a net profit of 140m euros, and it is not the only one of the public systems, there is also the "Post of Serbia", but I think it is important to say that it is not possible to be competitive on this market and to fight in such a growing competition of telecommunications and information technologies if you suck out of this liquidity 70% net profit. Here, you will see, Telecom will have to raise credit to pay 70% of its profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which will go on spending. Then we're looking for effective management of this system and we expect to reach a high price adequate to the value of this system. It is really valuable, but in this way it will not achieve its value, which it has in potential, and especially in the potential when you show your ambition to perform not only on your own market and that for three years you are only engaged in the preparation for the privatisation and arrival of foreign management, but by aggressively performing on the market and as the especially growing trend of the development of telecommunications services in both Serbia and the whole region followed by the purchase of the Italian piece, which I mentioned in 2002, those 29% bought out for 195m euros, and then investments in both the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro and the formation of a company that has to show that kind of regional ambitions. This is the way to develop, especially the development of our science and technology, the support of our universities and the University of Telecom, because without this kind of development there is no overall development of society, I am sure of that, especially in this technology. That is why this issue is extremely important. If the reasoning of this law comes down to us adopting this law on business societies because we are replacing 10% with 20%, and that applies only to Telecom, because it is the only company that has 20% of its capital, then we will not see beyond that change of unit percentage in two, which means further for the development of telecommunications and information technologies that are a prerequisite for Serbia's overall economic development. I think that's an extremely important question. I will remind you that we have raised many different issues in relations and above all in the definition of property, not only of Telecom, but also of EPS and other public systems, because this is a prerequisite for serious announcement, I repeat, serious announcement and corporateisation of these systems as future preconditions for privatisation or change of capital structure. At this point, in these market positions of our public systems, we are against this privatisation, but we are for joint investment in segments and in collaboration with companies that can bring technological progress and fresh resources that can improve individual segments in the business of these public systems, until the right market value is achieved and they achieve key preconditions, which is to define the assets of these systems, because this is the only way to define and share all shareholders in that system. Repeatedly, 58% in Telecom shares is the owner of the state, and 15% of Serbian citizens through the distribution of free shares. Seven percent of the shares were formerly employed in Telecom and the Post Office of Serbia, which resulted in Telecom and later privatization of the large system, and 20% I was Telecom. We had two solutions. Apart from changing this law, we had a solution to write off those 10%, cancel 10% of actions, which would bear no financial consequences to that 10% maximum, which would in some way indirectly increase citizens' roles in Telecom actions, but also the roles of former employees and current employees in Telecom and the Post of Serbia. It was one of the solutions that faced its challenges. I don't know how many of you, Mr. Minister, are in a position to answer that, but I think it's important to hear it from the Minister of Industry, because that's what we talked about on the Committee on Economy, because it would bear its challenges in accounting terms first of all, accountingly, but not essentially. The essence would be simple for a shade more favourable for the current shareholders, and there are no extreme shareholders other than the state, Serbian citizens and employees of Telecom and the Post Office of Serbia and former employees. So, and that was one of the solutions that should be discussed here and I think it's important to mention. I think this part of the analysis of the change in the company law can be completed with one important approach, I firmly believe that. I think the key steps for the state are to define the property of public systems as the preconditions of corporateisation, and we are full of mouths and announcements of corporateisation, and on the other hand we are delaying the application of the Public Property Act and we are delaying and changing at the last moment, seven days before the deadline, and this law. I think it is important for the government to take this whole business much more seriously, to give more confidence to management, to build an atmosphere of trust and to raise the ambitions of each individual public system, because that is a prerequisite for the development of Serbia as a whole. I do not think that in these public systems the enemies of Serbian citizens are sitting or working, and it seems that all these months and years there is a constant conflict atmosphere where we have a problem with public systems, so there is a conflict between the public and private sectors, because the good private sector, a successful private sector, does not exist without a successful public sector and vice versa. I think it's important to change that kind of atmosphere and the matrix that's constantly being built, which is that, by definition, all those who work in public systems are unable to steal, that they're corrupt. No, they're not. There are also how successful, there are how capable, there are how honest people are. I think that's a prerequisite and a way to do something about the public sector and, of course, Telecom in this context. I'll brief on the Development Fund and the law that we're changing in that sense. There are two key changes in this law. It is one thing to delete the word “annually. ” Instead of "annual plans", "the adoption of annual plans", only plans are now adopted. It's a small change, when we talk about the number of words in a Word document. But basically, that means that the Fund's Management Board now has a much wider space for discretionary decision-making on the realisation of the same fund because if you adopt annual plans, then you are responsible for the budget that has its own vision for the next year. So much is the Development Fund and it should have it for a year and bear responsibility for the public funds and the placement of those public funds for a year. When you adopt, based on the adopted budget that we adopt here, then the Development Fund should also have annual plans to implement them in such a responsible way for those years. By erasing: “a year,” of annual plans, we leave only plans that should take some indefinite time, for three years, in which members of the Management Board themselves have the right to realise the funds according to their own estimates, I will not say - find. I don't doubt it's in the beginning unwittingly, but I don't think it's well set up systemically. If we do, and I assume that most will adopt these amendments in the Development Fund Act, then one fundamental issue opens. If we give such rights to board members, why do we not ask them for a new responsibility? I think it's logical that then the members of the Fund's Management Board have the same responsibility as the members of, say, executive boards of business banks because they place state funds in a much more favourable way, with a much greater interest of clients to get these loans because that difference and less interest compared to commercial interest has been touched by one part of the state and this is the participation of the state in the doting of an economic sector and it should be done. But then a higher level of responsibility should be introduced, at least the same level of responsibility as for all members of the executive boards of business banks that decide on the placements of funds and loans. That's my suggestion to you, Mr. Minister, to just think about it that way and raise the level of responsibility because that question will arise. I would like to hear, at the end of this debate, how many percentages of the failures in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia compared to the failures we often hear about in the public of the Republic of Serbia, the commercial banks themselves, which so far, we assume, had much more stringent criteria and stricter criteria for the placement of these funds. This will show how serious it is for members of the Management Board and those employed in the Development Fund, but I think that this is also the way and information that needs to convince us that it is necessary to raise the level of responsibility for all those who decide on state resources, the placement of these state funds to encourage the development of Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19672	Thank you. The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19673	Thank you very much, esteemed president, distinguished Minister Antic, colleagues and colleagues. In the first place, since I am time-limited, I will deal with the amendments and additions of the Business Society Act, since in this united point I consider them first and foremost the most urgent and particular value of attention. In fact, as is usually the case, I have pointed out several times on various issues, in front of us is actually another amendment and addition to the applicable law that has been changed several times before. This is where the question arises - why should we think of time and at the beginning of quality laws that will go on and on without change, when it has almost become a practice, or a manner, that we are dealing with changes and additions here, and of course we change the laws every year, unorthodoxly and several times a year, and at best every other year? After all, the paradox is that the question can be asked – anyway, what would we do if we did not adopt quality laws? Obviously, we'd be dealing with changes and additions, just like we're doing today. Honestly, I would personally like any authorised proposing, no matter what draft law, to be debated in this National Assembly, in the reasons for adoption and in the reasons for the same allegations that are amended and complemented by the basic text of the law in order to make it clear to the citizens, and only one conclusion arises, that if we go towards the more frequent changes and additions of any legal text, the legal uncertainty in Serbia is less. The company law, as is known, was passed in 2011 and that same year has, unfortunately, already been changed. Now there are, of course, amendments and additions to the same law. Immediately after the application of this law, therefore, following its adoption and entry into force of law, and then the revivings in practice, there have been a number of doubts and many ambiguities regarding its application. In fact, the basic text of this law from, as I said, in 2011 in many places remained unspeakable. Although there are amendments to this law before us today in 2015, I do not think the promoter remembered that, when he was already going through these amendments and additions, he proposes to the MPs and those fundamental changes, which are, above all, the changes proposed by the profession, and for the sake of consistency and for the sake of making it more clear to apply the same law. Making the law is one thing and it's a less important thing, but applying the law and assessing the effects of applying a certain law is something else. After all, these changes that were supposed to be, it seems to me, already done today, and I repeat, they are of professional nature, they should precisely facilitate all that is stated by law and should actually facilitate the achievement of the objective of the Law on Economic Society itself. For some reason, they are not even present today in the congregation procedure, so I am skeptical about this matter and I doubt that in some foreseeable time we will discuss some new amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. Some of these issues are the obligation of the Commission to audit in two-cameral societies, since the law, therefore, still applicable to the 2011 Act for the two-cameral companies, has referred to the application of the provisions on single-home companies, and thus in fact established the obligation of the already mentioned commission to exist, which I mentioned, although the very existence and purpose of such a commission itself is actually exhausting only among single-domeous companies, while in the case of the two-cameral companies, the same commission is absolutely losing its significance. What has further caused these problems that have arisen is that some court proceedings have shown precisely that the provisions of the still applicable law without amendments and additions that we are discussing today, which relate to the exclusion of a member of a limited liability society or to the exclusion of shareholders from a stockholder's society, do not protect enough rights of minority shareholders. What the case-law has shown unequivocally is that there have been misappropriations that the Court itself could not remove, and on this matter there is a discrepancies in the case of judicial practice, but the court and the case-law will deal with some other way because the court has also stated in certain decisions that these legal gaps and those contradictions have actually enabled the majority shareholder, only if it is fast enough to take legal action, that it fully devastates the rights of a minority shareholder, and all due to the simple provision that is being made, I quote, that if a member who has filed a motion to annul a decision of society is excluded, the procedure will be suspended. This, of course, has created a number of problems in practice because it is undoubtedly not true that an illegally disfellowshipped member or whether we are talking about a limited liability society or that we are talking about a stock society, therefore, or a company shareholder cannot disprove society's decisions. I think it's a disastrous solution, and I think that such a solution should be changed and changed today so that in some foreseeable period we wouldn't be dealing with amendments and additions to this same law. It is not my mind, it is something that the courts in the Republic of Serbia have found and cited as absurd and as an incredible failure of the 2011 law. However, such bad examples of the law in the application of that law are full, and they all stem from the same source, which is precisely the shortcomings of the applicable law. However, even this opportunity was not used to make these bad legal solutions beyond nor to make the text of the law itself much better. Instead, we are now actually considering that change in the law that has been proposed only absolutely and exclusively because of a single business society, which is Telecom Serbia. Many remarks made by my previous speaker stand in place, but I'm here to make a few principle remarks that I personally have a problem with when it comes to these changes and additions. Namely, I have one question, or if you want an example, you can look at it twice. Imagine, if you were to say, the Criminal Code is only being changed because of some individual person. His name doesn't matter. The care is here, tycoon, I see it's an actual topic, and then let's say, in the light of the amendment proposal and the addition, for example, of the Criminal Code, we state that it's changing because of that person. That's one example. My question is, do you think something like that would be constitutional? I don't think so. Then why would anyone even think that the change of the Law on Business Society, which is guided, guided, however you will, by motives exclusively related to one business society, and here we are talking about "Telecom of Serbia", which, of course, states in an explanation for the adoption of such changes and the addition that it is even constitutional. Now, as not only can the Criminal Law be changed and personified, and we must be aware of the facts, but also publicly admit that not only in this congregation, but in many past councils unfortunately the amendments and additions of the laws were personified, they had their name and last name. Nor can the Business Society Act be changed only because of one business society, even if it is "Telecom of Serbia" and not to be entered into the text. If someone already wanted to change the law in the way he did, to propose changes and additions, which I personally don't think are good, and they had to be more comprehensive in order to achieve a legitimate interest which, in some ways, I will be fenced, there is somewhat more where "Telecom Serbia" is concerned, then you see that someone had to look at a broader picture, that in the context of the proposed changes and additions, they were more comprehensive and that some other argument that would, for example, read – an enterprise of public importance in which the Republic of the majority owner had a different legal treatment than some private one. Then it would be logical if such a formulation existed that different treatment certainly also exists when it comes to obtaining and available to its own actions. But entering into the reasoning of the law that it only changes because of the state interest in a stock company, in my view, in the opinion of the DHSS party absolutely absurdd. So we're talking about something changing just because of one business society. You know, there can't be one general act like the law, it can't be changed because of one stock company. I repeat, if the law would apply or if this right applies to the protection of state interests in Telecom Serbia, then the promoter had to do differently in this case, I suppose of course you are not a writer of change and complementarity rather than someone from your ministry, I suppose. Then it should not be written in an explanation that this law, i.e. such changes and additions, is brought only for the sake of a single company of shareholders. What is now my second question, and of course I would like to get an answer to it if you are able, and that is if these changes are brought only for "Telecom Serbia" why, for example, Article 287 and its position 5 instead of reading, but I will quote it as it is proposed – especially in the case of a non-public action society, why, for example, that same member would not vote – especially in the case of Telecom Serbia, because that is the essence of these changes and additions, and it should also be clear to the citizens of Serbia. So we're only talking about changes concerning "Telecoma of Serbia". Let's say, for example, that Article 288(2) is to read – in the case of Telekom Srbija, and so on, I will not take up time to read the whole position of the said member instead of what is now said – in the case of a shareholder society. What's the point and what's my principle is that it can't explain the bill's proposal to insert something that doesn't matter and it's completely the opposite of what it says in the bill itself, and the fact that there's such a discrepancy in this case. It is not possible to formulate the reasoning of the bill in such a way that only the reasoning refers to "Telecom of Serbia", while the proposal itself on amendments and additions to this law refers to all possible action societies, which it has been. So, absolutely all the stock companies. If, in the light of the very text of the law, it is so directly introduced, it is clear that it applies, it only brings about one business society, then the question can be asked – and is it really discrimination against other other companies, there are others in this Serbia, "Telecom" is not the only one? In the context of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly in this way, if it were to be adopted in this form, would actually adopt such a proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, it seems to me that it would discriminate against other societies that I mentioned, because when the law was passed, it would be managed and referred to the fact that such a law is only being passed in order to reflect the individual interests of a particular company rather than being brought into that spirit in which it is necessary, which is in the spirit of all companies and to respect what needs to be a primate, which is absolutely the general interest of each economic society. Furthermore, the new position of Article 288 is unclear and defies not only the legal principles on which I am based, because I am deeply bothered by the way this is arranged, but it is completely messy and unsettled, at least in my opinion, the whole bill of amendments and additions. So, not only does it defy the legal principles on which I base myself here in my criticisms, but the wording itself is the opposite and the spelling. Thus, it is said, quote - when alienating its own actions, society is obliged to allow persons who are shareholders of society on the day of their decision under Article 1 of this Article to have the right to an obstacle to purchase. Look, this article actually says that society is obliged to allow shareholders to have the right. There is no provision like this in any law, not in any country, especially in those countries that are more developed than we are, and I mean in those countries that are currently under our own, at least I would say legal level. The question arises, and how does society allow shareholders to have the right. Well, for God's sake, shareholders either have the right or have no right to do so, and it's their right to establish a law, establish a general act, establish a regulation for them, and it's certainly not a society that makes something possible or impossible for someone. And that someone's right or right or not. What does the wording of society even mean is that it's a duty to allow someone to have a right. The question arises in practice how this provision would be implemented if it were applied in this form in which it is now in place, that is, how it enables someone and how it gives someone the right. Does this provision really mean that it should amend its founding acts, and it would be said that it will have to go in that direction, so in the direction of changing its founding acts in order to enter into the statutes a provision allowing the right by establishing such a thing in its permanent statute. This provision, the provision of the right, means that the company should, on behalf of and for the account of the shareholders, press charges against itself, and that can happen in practice, imagine the absurdity of society to press charges against itself, and all to enable the action of the shareholder to prevent the purchase. Or perhaps a third variant, which is that this provision on the provision of rights should actually mean that one company should collect signatures from the people and, let's say, submit a proposal to the National Assembly to amend the law establishing the right to prevent the purchase of its own actions of society. So the rights aren't made possible. It's real or it's real or it doesn't exist. Where the right exists, it exists solely because it is intended somewhere as such, provided for as such, as law, either in the Constitution or in the law or in the Statute or in the Regulation, in judgment, solution, decision, etc. And when someone's right, imagine, intended as a right, it's not possible, because the right in itself is not a matter of opportunity and a question of desire, so now that someone's saying, I'm able to give the right or I'm unable to give the right, well, see, then it's not the right thing, then it's the will. And it seems to me that these changes and additions to that will must be removed, and you must find a way to do so. Whether the committee will submit amendments, or by accepting some of the amendments that have already been submitted, and I'm sure there are very good and very good ones, should only be read carefully. And not only what is said as the text of the amendment, but especially what is stated in what is most important, and that is in its explanation. So the right is being realized and that's the question of realisation. Therefore, the member I have already mentioned may say that shareholders have or do not have the right to interfere with the purchase of their own shares of the company, and cannot possibly say that society is obliged to allow shareholders to have the right, because they are right, I have already said, or have, or do not. If they don't have it, then that's what we decide, some changes and additions or the adoption of a brand-new law, and if they have it, then they will exercise the right to do so in the way it is done, and that's appropriate court proceedings in front of a real and local court, if the company in question violates them. If we look at the clarification of the legal provisions of the bill's proposal, we will see that for this, in the least sense, in my opinion, a rather unacceptable member, it is stated that it means that "only in the case of a public action society in the process of alienating its own actions, there is the right to prevent buying in favour of persons who are shareholders of society on the day of making decisions on the estrangement of their own actions". You see, in a case like this, an absurdity would happen, if you wanted a legal nonsensus, and that the interpretation of the law would be meaningful and clear, and that the legal provision and what stands in the bill is formulated as a member who changes is completely pointless and completely unclear, and now the question is why is it just not written all this nicely, as it is beautifully written in the explanation of these changes and additions? What is important, therefore, is that such a bill on amendments and additions to the Company Act abolishes the right to interfere with the purchase and that of its own actions by other shareholders, and I think it is more than clear. On the other hand, it is also written in the explanation that this legal solution does not exclude the right of non-public companies to provide for the right to buy their own actions by their constituent acts. Finally, Article 3 provides that this provision of the bill is also to apply to its own actions acquired before the entry into force of this law. However, if this law abolishes the rights to buy those own actions that were acquired before the law enters into force, then I have one question for the promoter, if he can answer me, and it says: Do you know how many shareholders at the meeting of all the stock companies that exist in Serbia today are going to vote for a show of action that will later become their own actions of society, and from the exclusive motive that these actions will later buy, just by the law hinder buying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19674	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19675	Dear MPs, just a few comments on the previous statement. I fully agree with you that in practice there are several kinds of problems with the current Business Society Act. Every law is mostly passed with the best intention of making progress, so practice shows that at certain times, especially in the time in which we live, in which the daily economy is changing, in which we are very dependent on international influences, above all, the crisis that has hit both the EU and the attempt to make our economy much better and better than it has been in the past. For this reason, the Ministry of Economy has already formed a working group to amend and supplement the existing Business Society Act in co-operation with other ministries. I already said that in the last assembly, and now I'm going to do it again. In the first quarter of this year, we will go out with a more complete and complex amendment of the law, which will probably include either joint or separate and the Law on Public Enterprises. You know how much attention we have given to public enterprises and we are trying to make them much better and better and to cancel all their debts for a short period of time from the next two to three years and put them at least on our feet, one that is possible, so that at least they are not losers, and all the others we can put in a positive business. With all your objections about the other points, we will certainly have the opportunity to talk seriously. As far as your proposal is concerned, in the amendments to the members proposed today for your consideration, that, instead of companies, the name "Telecom" should only be entered, that would mean a violation of both the Constitution and any constitutional decision. The law changes how you apply to all companies. We wrote in the explanation that it is very important for us that for the largest company, of the greatest interest in the development of Serbia's economy, we also have a special sensitivity and way of functioning and working. Since we are running out of time to alienate our own actions, above 10%, we have decided on this proposal and explained it on the Committee on Economy, where we have received majority support and here, today we are in front of you, to find the best possible way and the best model. In any case, every objection you make and any MP, either in legal or technical correction or in amendment to some part of the law that you consider, or definition that is not high enough, we will consider and in the best interest of all of us to accept it, in order to get, at least at this point, a short change that is very important to us. I repeat again, the Business Society Law will be seriously discussed at one of the next sessions of the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19676	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19677	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to congratulate you and the citizens of Serbia on the Christmas and New Year's holidays on behalf of the NS Parliament Club. We have two amendments and two amendments to the law and a confirmation of loans in the third law. What my esteemed colleagues have already said in previous exhibitions is that it is not often good to change certain provisions of the law. What encourages me is that you, Mr. Minister Sertić, announced this morning on the Committee on Business that we will have in the first six or seven months of this year, so, 2015, we have a new law on companies. I could agree with my colleague Batić that much needs to be changed and there is much of a shortage in the existing Business Society Act. But I understand both the need and the speed of why it is necessary to bring these latest changes now, in order to respect the deadline, which is January 25th. When we talk about the deadline of January 25th, because of the citizens of Serbia who are watching and this transmission, it is very important that we say, because in the media of the previous days, incorrect information has appeared, and that is that we make these amendments retroactively, which is absolutely not true. Then we will have to go back a little bit to history, which is primarily that the government made a decision on 30 December 2011 to buy 20% of the Greek telecommunications company Ote, which was co-owner of Telecom, and then the state of Serbia did not have its own money to buy these shares and that a decision was taken to raise the credit and to buy that portfolio of shares for the loan owed to Telecom, but the contract came into effect on 25 January. So, what's important is both for the public and for us, the MPs, there's no retroactivity. What's important and what I would refer to is a small history. Dear counterpart Ciric, who spoke before me from the DS and longtime director of PTT Serbia, said a lot, but with a small fact, I just disagree. He pulled out of course what the DS was doing, which is commendable at the time, that the majority package would then return to the state in Telekom, but we should all say that all the governments of the Republic of Serbia after 2000 and after the first privatisation of Telekom made for Milosevic's time, worked significantly to get Telekom back into state hands. That was done by Djindjic's government and later by Kostunica's government and of course by Mirko Cvetkovic. Finally, the decision taken on December 30th to buy those last 20% shares, personally, and then the New Serbia Parliament Club, we were against how it was done. Why? You had two logics of thinking. It is one thing for Telekom to become a hundred percent state-owned, i.e. public-owned, that it has regional significance as a company that enters the BiH, Republika Srpska and Montenegro market, but on the other hand, by raising such a loan, you are completely depleting one company that should be a development leader. On the other hand, when it is financially exhausted, the company can no longer invest significant funds in its development. Unfortunately, today we have a situation in Serbia which is very common, that you have municipalities that are in hill-mounted areas, how we like to say in rural areas of the Republic of Serbia, which today have not developed a telecommunications network, that you have that Telekom simply abolished classical fixed phones by simple decisions, has introduced some so-called so-called. "the wireless", some Chinese network today, we still have litigation that citizens and individual local communities lead against Telekom Srbija for damage compensation because it unilaterally broke the old contracts that other citizens of the local community had concluded with PTT Serbia, from which Telekom later came, where citizens also had their investments. I can also point out the villages, but I think all MPs coming from within Serbia know what the problem they are facing, I say once again, is citizens in the rural areas of Serbia. What is being asked is what I asked myself this morning and on the Committee on Economic Affairs, why in the previous two years, since 2012, it has not been more active with the corporate culture of the management of Telekom Srbija. I also have to ask you, Mr. Minister, why some exhausted politicians are sitting on the Telecom Supervisory Board today and what you owe the Serbian citizens first of all, why has it not been so far with the initial offer of actions on the RS Stock Exchange? This is a very important explanation because there are opinions, especially in the professional public, that this offer and this portfolio of actions owned by Telekom Srbija and one initial offer of actions owned by the state of Serbia could have raised additional funds that could have been invested in the development of Telekom and the development of Telekom infrastructure. What I would like to mention in particular are the decisions of previous governments, which is to be given, and there are also judicial disputes about it today, allowing different firms. Let us only remember those “Nube Invests” and some other companies who magically received permission to set up optical cables and that “Nuba Invest” and later “SBB” and some other and third companies thus reduced this kind of cookie in a market share that has Telekom and thus, step by step, reduced the value of Telekom itself. To return only to the specific amendments to the Business Society Act, where colleagues have said in the existing law that a company can have up to 10% of its own actions. It's been three years, and that deadline comes out January 25th, so if you have more than 10% to alienate. We now have Telekom, we have an example of Telekom, he has 20%, and now the question is whether we will adopt this law in an elegant way, to say, remains owned by Telekom, that Telekom simply prepares for something, not what I would call the privatisation of Telekom, but by getting a strategic partner of Telekom in 2015 that will simply enable the company itself, and in an indirect way to get new services to the citizens of Serbia and simply to make Telekom a leader in this part, in this region, I say not only in Serbia, but also in neighbouring countries. We had a different option. Coli Ćirić spoke of this different possibility, which is that you bookkeepingly, to say, declare 10% of the action, then nominally, I say nominally, would reduce the value of the company itself. Of course, when you reduce the total number of actions, it would increase nominally, perhaps even the market number of actions that are owned by states, which others, let me say, smaller shareholders, primarily former workers, but what is a danger to this model is to reduce the credit rating of the company itself, Telekom itself. It is now this danger that I wanted to say something about, and to point out, as well as respected colleagues have said that now for the 2014 profit, Telekom will have to raise a loan to partially invest in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and then let's simply see what is more useful for both the company itself and the Republic of Serbia. So we can talk about it and talk about it. What is crucial, once again, is a clear answer to why there are still people on the Supervisory Board who are not professional and why they did not go on the stock market with one piece of action to create capital that can then be put into development. As for the Law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, due to lack of time, I did not talk about it this morning on the Committee on Economic Affairs, but there are a few things that should be mentioned here in particular. We have also said as a coalition of New Serbia and SNS since 2012 that Serbia needs a development bank. Unfortunately, taught the experiences we had in the previous year, and here at the beginning and this year with the Serbian Bank, we see that bank management where majority government capital is not the best. So we're coming back to see what's up with management and these banks. But if the Development Fund was to substitute for some kind of development bank of Serbia in small, unfortunately, and for previous ministers, and I think we all know that the initiator of this idea was former Minister Mladjan Dinkic, the Development Fund was simply designed to share loans there, that we now and as MPs do not know which is exactly the percentage of the non-refundable loans that the Development Fund has given over the previous years. What is good about these changes is that it will make it more transparent and clearer for the Development Fund and the Development Fund Management Board, which is now made up of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I would agree with colleagues who spoke before me, I think it must be clearer to mention the responsibility of the members of the Management Board of the Development Fund and perhaps should consider when adopting some new law and on the Development Fund, is that members of the Management Board and personal property, such as members of the Management Board of Public Enterprises, guarantee business and the Development Fund, because then this would be much clearer. It wouldn't have happened what happened to us in the previous years, if these loans were approved on the political line, that there was no clear criterion, and now in this law, that's changing what security funds are and that's the key thing. It is not disputed that you should set up funds for as low interest as possible. It is not disputed that the low interest is subsidized from the Republika Srpska budget, but it must be clearly guaranteed what you have in business banks. You want a loan? You have to have a mortgage or you have to have a bailiff, or a jury. What I think is also good at amending the Development Fund Act is that at the end of the year, all the funds remaining as surplus in the Development Fund will now be returned to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I consider this a good solution because I think there have been abuses in the previous years, so that the government will be able to see in a much clearer and more transparent way how much funds have been placed over the year, how much, in the end, the Development Fund has earned, how much it has managed to repay these loans, and if there is a need, it is very important that these changes plan that the Fund can also buy quality securities of value on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, so these are commendable things. What I have a misunderstanding and what I would ask for from you, Mr. Minister, is for you to tell these changes in one piece that the companies that can get the loans can't have more than 40% of the social capital. Now, this may not be interesting for Serbian lawmakers and citizens, but I would remind you that there are businesses in Serbia, especially enterprises that were separated from the EPS, from the Colubara, for example, Kolubara-Service, Kolubara-Gradjevinar, from Kostolac Autotransport company "Kostolac", which are very active, have a large number of employees, have 100% social capital. They were previously promised that they would return to the EPS, or their parent companies, and so far nothing has resolved and we are now coming into a situation that these companies will not be able to, once we adopt these amendments to the Development Fund Act, to apply in general for the Fund's funds. That question should be resolved immediately, because, I say, there are a large number of employees in these companies. Finally, the proposal to amend the loan agreement for the second stage of completion of the "Kostolac" Termopower Plant, of course we will support it. What is important and what Serbian citizens need to know, the value of the loan is somewhere around $608 million. What is also important, I am sorry that now there is no Minister Antić, who is in one quality way and managed to act as a credit in this second phase to be significantly more favourable than a Chinese loan from the first phase, because the lower interest rate, from three, has come down to 2.5%, is a longer grace period, five to seven years old, is a longer repayment period, from 15 to 20 years old and all that hundred good things. All these good things, to get after 25 or 30 years, one new facility that will give significant electricity production, to bring stability in the electricity sector, that's all to be commended, but what is not commendable, and that I wanted to ask Minister Antić, are media speculation about whether the information is correct, and you as Minister of Economy have to give it to us, that before the signing itself came up with certain problems, that it was tried to be a Chinese firm, which was meant to be a performer, if I'm not wrong, its name is CMEK, to try to get out of this job, to introduce another company? This was, of course, linked to the existing EPS director, Mr. Obradovic. You even have certain statements from the former Minister of Energy, now Deputy Prime Minister, and this is, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, clear and clear answers, so that there is no doubt about it, because this loan under such conditions, which was done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, and ultimately, the Minister of Energy, is so good, so commendable, that these so-called. The tails and these stories should not stand behind it, and that is why they need today by the resolute minister to get a clear answer and to simply end it. Of course, in the voting day, the NS parliamentary group will support the amendments to these laws, with an explanation of all these questions I have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19678	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Zeljko Sertic, and then Mr. Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19679	I will be very brief, to refer only to this question, it seems to me the most important question you have asked, I don't know if before that Mr. Ciric, since he commented on the Committee itself - why Telekom's actions and all other shareholders were not thrown out on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. In terms like we had since 2008, the general crisis that has occurred worldwide, so it has certainly hit us, too, you know that over 65% of our trade is going through EU countries, so it is a clear interdependence between our markets and recessions that has occurred both in all economic aspects and in the EU and later in Serbia. On the other hand, with a very shallow value paper market, which has existed on the Belgrade Stock Exchange for some time, it has been a great risk to throw out 20% of the stock market, as the offer would increase anyway, but we are not sure that demand would be adequate. Then there would be a non-market model in which you could speculatively measure that, by accepting these actions, because you do not have adequate demand, you will affect the balances and functioning of the company itself. I think it is a good thing that this measure is done in such a way that at times of general circumstances and the crisis that exists does not come out with public actions, i.e. an open market. As for the Development Fund, and we talked about it earlier on to the Committee, I fully agree with the responsibility of everyone in the processes that work. It is important to say that since September of the month, since the Development Fund has not given any credit and has been completely blocked by the board of directors, we have unblocked within two and a half months. A large number of business entities have received support from the Fund and all the necessary guarantees companies should provide. In commercial banks, we asked them to provide both security and development funds. So there's no more company that can get by the new rules at the Development Fund without guarantee, like in commercial banks. What's a big difference between commercial banks and the Development Fund is the level of interest that goes from 1% to 1.5% in the Development Fund, up to 3% in the long-term loans. For flooded areas, we have provided a billion dinars of additional funding, which we have provided that all the companies that have suffered in the floods are able to borrow loans. We only provided more relaxed security models in that part, which could also be on the means to be used, as far as equipment or personal notes are concerned, just so that we would allow people who weren't responsible for the accident that hit them to continue their work or at least to start it. On that side, we had discussions and also understanding of both the tax administrations and the finance ministry and all those who participated in the aid elements. So, on the one hand, it was urgent that the floods solve urgent things, such as saving lives, and then rebuilding houses and basic family life, as usual. Now we've come to the point that we can help the businessmen. The Fund itself took part in this, which is why I note, by postponing certain liabilities to companies that have taken place in these areas, which have had a problem, then increasing the repayment period, but all in line with the rules adopted on the board of directors. I responsibly claim that no credit has been given outside the rules that exist. This practice that has existed in the previous period in the Development Fund no longer exists and we will try to strengthen the Development Fund in the coming period. No matter what form it works, whether we make a decision here at the Assembly one moment to be a development bank, such as any of the proposals, or stay functioning as a Development Fund, I think it's important as support, especially in times of crisis, because you have a situation today and domestic companies competing in both tenders or trying to take their goods out to the world market. It competes with companies from the West that get adopted home countries far, far more favourable loans, of only a few percent and with much longer return periods and much larger grace periods and, normally, that our economy is not competitive enough in one part. The Development Fund can't cover all these demands, but we can help, above all, the small economy that is now at this point, the most endangered. Here, the minister has returned, so he may be able to answer that, but I can tell you that regarding the summit itself with the People's Republic of China and all the other countries of this part of Europe, until the last moment, are for every memorandum that has been signed in the talks and negotiations. I think it's very responsible from all those who participated in those conversations. It is precisely the result of these types of negotiations and talks, although you have commended it, I would like to point out that exactly what you said is that the lower interest rate and much better borrowing of the Republic of Serbia than the realisation of previous contracts is precisely the result of mutual talks, negotiations and persuasion of both sides. It's normal for someone who wants to give you credit, that they want to put you in charge with as much interest as possible. It is normal and natural that we are fighting for much better business conditions and I would like to congratulate the team of Minister Antić, who has really done a serious job, and the result is this as you have repeated, that there is indeed a change in the negotiating position, i.e. the contracts we have received, and that summit itself was a serious opportunity to position Serbia in an economic sense on a new course. You saw yesterday's meeting here in Belgrade to build a Belgrade-Budapest railway, that teams that were then formed, which was only a few weeks ago, were already working. It is very important for us to make this year an investment year, and in order to get investment investment and to open funds to the domestic economy in co-operation with all those involved in these projects, it is very important that projects prepare and everything that precedes the release of money as soon as possible. It is a new concept in which we will, together with you through certain laws that we will ask you to discuss in the next period to change them in the right way, and we have just mentioned the Law on Economic Society, which is very important to us, that in all the elements in which we have seen certain problems, to make them clearer, faster and more efficient, in order to help our companies function and work as well as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19680	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica of direct mention by Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19681	Thank you. I don't think the mention was malicious, but I think it's important that we clarify the details and what I said in the opening address. It is true, I said that Telekom was sold in 1997 and that on two occasions two governments, headed by the presidents and from the DS, returned 29% in 2002. In 2002, the fact is 29% of Italian Telekom's participation in 195m euros in purchases and 380m euros in 2012 paid 20% of Greece's Otea share. That's right. I do not dispute that other governments have participated in the significant development of Telekom. I would particularly like to highlight this period since 2001 and the government of Zoran Djindjic, which has also launched the process, but also the government in 2004 Vojislav Kostunica, who practically encouraged the then management of Telekom, the purchase, and Republika Srpska and the expansion of the regional plan and the opening of jobs in Montenegro, I think that is significant. This was during the period when DS did not participate from 2004 to 2007 in the government and those 24 privatisations were mentioned, and of which 23 were disputed from 2004 to 2007. What is very important is the investment issue, whether it was smarter to invest in the privatisation in 2012 or to enter with an open privatisation process in the pricing definition, where then management and then the government were accused of selling Telekom's capital cheaply. Thus, a price of 50% capital of 950 million was reached, totaling a billion and 900.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19682	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19683	I think it's important in two seconds... So, in the reciprocal relationship, 20% amounts to that 380 million and I will look forward to it if it happens this way as the prime minister promised to dramatically raise the price, because then the government and management were not satisfied with the price of a billion and 900m euros. We expect a much higher price and greater value of this important communication system, with repetition, DS thinks it is much smarter not to privatise, but to enter a strategic partnership in parts and strategic investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19684	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19685	Thank you. I volunteered to comment on what the distinguished colleague Jovanovic was talking about. First of all, I have to remind myself of some elements. We and the People's Republic of China have an August 2009 interstate agreement, which defined economic and technical co-operation and infrastructure for the realisation of joint projects. On the basis of this agreement, on 22 July 2010, a general contractual agreement on the implementation of the "Kostolac B Power Plant Projects" project was concluded between EPS, "Termoelectrics and Kostolac" and the Chinese company "China International Machinery & Equipment Corp" or short-lived CMEC. So as early as 2010, it was defined that the contractor for all three elements of the agreement would be the Chinese company CMEC. Revitalisation of two existing larger B1 and B2 blocks, as I said in the opening exhibition, then a decommissioning project for two existing blocks also on the Termopower Plant B and a project to increase the surface digging capacity to 12 million tonnes per year, with the construction of a new B3 thermoblock. Why do I mention this? At this stage, we didn't have a Chinese side of negotiations on who would be the contractor. It was defined as early as 2010. We only talked to Chinese partners and friends about the terms and conditions of the second phase. It is clear from this that the question of whether the Serbian side might have wanted to change the CMEC performer, the answer is that it was not at all on the agenda, that it was not on the table, that it was not talked about and that we were not able to look for something like that at all, or get it. I do not want to comment on the various speculations and the different information that has come to you and to us as a member of this government, that there have been certain problems in relation to China's Exim Bank – CMEC and that this de facto has led to a certain slowdown in the signing of this document. These are the things that we could conclude from some conversations, but ultimately, the only important result. The result is that we had a great summit, where we also had a Chinese prime minister, the presidents of almost all countries in the environment, that it was a political and economic event a couple of excellencies can freely say unrecorded over the past few decades in Serbia, that one of the results of that summit and later a bilateral visit by the Chinese prime minister was the signing of this agreement, that this agreement was extremely important for Serbia and important with more aspects. What is crucial to me as a minister of energy, and I believe one great news for all Serbian citizens is that at the moment that this facility is completed, it will already be retail after 30 years, finally the first major energy facility in Serbia, that we are raising and producing coal through this facility in Serbia, but we are also getting new 350 megawatts of installed power on one side and on the other, that we have managed to negotiate a really good financial agreement. I can say freely – a good financial agreement, because it is clear to compare. For the first phase of this project, the conditions were 15 years of payment with five years of grace periods. We've now negotiated 20 years with seven years of grace period. The first stage interest was 3%. We've now secured 2.5%. Of course, no one will give it to you. That's what you have to fight for. We have fought and fought for these conditions and today I can say with great pride that if the National Assembly ratifys this agreement, Serbia is making a key step towards building the first energy facility after decades in Serbia and saying that we have provided, in a serious dialogue with our Chinese partners, extremely favourable funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19686	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19687	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will talk about amendments to the Law on the Development Fund and this second law, which treats and whose main subject is the avoidance and the possibility of Telecom losing some of its capital. Here I would like to commend one commitment and the initiative of the minister who has shown this several times to preserve our state property, to preserve our state-owned enterprises and, as he has already said this morning on the Committee, to prepare them for possible strategic partnerships as best and quality as possible, going to meet the time, market and events that take place. Given one fact that can be unpleasant for us, but that's the way it is in the world, on the global market, that the market for telecommunications is in the saturation. I would disagree with some findings that "Telecom Serbia" particularly lacks quality, good, educated and qualified human resources. On the contrary, we lack the opportunity to invest in telecommunications, new technologies and play that game with other big players. I mention that the competition "Telecom Serbia", at this point in our country, Telenor, which is also 52% owned, conditionally said, is the countries of Norway, i.e. investment and pension funds, but Telenor has over 300 million users and one huge share of Telecom capital is invested in new technologies and to obtain and create new markets and market niche. Given the situation in our country, given our macroeconomic stability, our firm Telecom Serbia does not have enough money to invest, so I agree that in the coming period we find a strategic partner or eventually privatise Telecom, trying to get the best price, the best conditions that will guarantee jobs, which will guarantee the company's competence and the possibility that this company will positively affect the gross domestic product, new employment, but also what it has influencing the development of the sector and the development of a branch of information technologies of telecommunications, which are very important for the overall development of the domestic economy. I would like to point this out once again, given the very good co-operation with the trade unions in Telecom and knowing the situation in Telecom, that Telecom has excellent, highly qualified engineers, good and quality managers who can successfully manage the company, but if you do not have enough liquid assets, if you do not have enough opportunities for large investment in the world and on the market that is changing on a daily basis, you simply do not have the opportunity to play a game with these big players, such as "Telenor", such as "Vip Mobile", such as "Dojce Telekom" and others. This will open up one opportunity for us to prepare this company in a quality way and get the best possible conditions, get the best possible and best-quality strategic partner, and I cannot mention the fact that Telecom would need to do what was done possibly and potentially in the next period and from the “Nikola Tesla” Airport. I must mention, last night, in conversation with our friend, our country's great friend, Ambassador Algiers Abdelkader Mesdu, he said -- I came to the service in 2008, it was a small, local airport with possibly two, three straight planes, and now this is a completely different story, this is an airport and this is one investment and a potential for Serbia to become a regional player. The strategic partnership with Etihad has shown itself in full light, as very positive, given that the number of passengers at the "Nikola Tesla" airport has increased by as much as 40% in just a year. This is what Serbia needs: the best and most qualified investors, strategic partners who are privatizing or entering a strategic partnership, whose business it is, and who will focus seriously on the work they are doing and who, in addition to profits, will have a long-term development of the companies they work with and who work with. As for the amendment and addition of the Development Fund Act, here the state, government and only the Ministry of Economy want to accelerate and strengthen control of state institutions and want to introduce what is most important for the good functioning of state institutions, so that they are a better and better service of the economy, which is to strengthen their full responsibility and achieve what is called credibility in the economy, in economic relations. So, the credibility of an institution which, unfortunately in one part, I cannot say, is ruined, when it comes to the Development Fund, but I hope since this year, since it has been mentioned that no credit has been granted for a year, that it is one need and a minister, like someone who has this sensitivity, someone who has been an entrepreneur and knows what it really is to develop small and medium-sized enterprises and how important it is for the development of the entire economy, it is a serious positive impulse for small and medium-sized enterprises, that sector, especially in undeveloped areas, have the opportunity to get funds under favourable circumstances, with a certain grace period, to overcome the current situation and crisis and to further develop. With all due respect to the rules, procedures and the state that wants to provide such conditions, wanting and having as its main goal to repay these loans and to make their business after returning those loans, after returning interest, pay off, so that they can earn and so that they can develop their business. Of course, they're not dealing with simple reproduction, they're expanding it. I hope it will be one of the main conditions and main motives of entrepreneurs, businessmen to take these loans. This is the only way the state takes an additional step to strengthen, improve the business environment and ensure what is definitely needed, especially for domestic businesses, which is capital at a fair and normal price, than they can get in commercial banks. When you look at their profit rates, the overall situation in the region, in the EU, and the interest rates offered by commercial banks, simply doing some normal business with profit rates, from 5.6 to 15%, it is necessary to work only for these loans, which in these conditions is impossible. I consider it important to activate the Development Fund in this domain, the overall development of the national economy, and I believe that, with these other measures, the legal solutions that we have made in the previous period and which we plan to bring in the next period, we will provide such an environment and that we will provide a favourable opportunity for our domestic entrepreneurs to be in debt according to good and quality conditions and thus try to solve the problem of unbalanced regional development, because this money, this fresh capital, needs to be given to enterprises working in undeveloped areas. I had this opportunity to talk to many entrepreneurs, especially from western Serbia, from the region of Sandzak, Novi Pazar, Kraljev, who have good ideas, who have good business plans, which also have markets, but, of course, they need trade capital, they need in some respects and a break so that in these conditions, when it is difficult to collect goods, not only on the domestic market, but also on the foreign market, they can reach their breath and they can overcome the current crisis that is very large, which is very large and very high in the EU, of course, reflected in the region, and reflect on our country as well. As for one really positive thing, when it comes to amending and supplementing this law, it is that the Development Fund will have to make longer-term work plans. So far they've made plans for the year in question which, I feel free to say, in modern business, is a nonsensical business, because just as much as the weather is turbulence, as much as we can't predict the things that are going to happen, especially on those elements of the middle of indirect action, what our country itself is, and even the micronivo companies can't clearly influence, we have to have one, simply, if not clear, we have to have a plan of activity that we have. It is a positive impulse for businesses, that they can plan their activities, their business and know when they can compete and how they can be in charge and, accordingly, make their business plans, therefore, with the possibility of borrowing and thus achieve their strategic plans and, of course, the operational objectives that each company today has. So, I think that this is just one in a series of activities and steps of the Ministry of Economy and the Minister himself in achieving and creating a quality business environment, one in taking care of state property, one in-house enterprises and one, really targeted, and a strategically designed aspect of how, if we are not able to manage ourselves in a competitive way, but we are not, of course, guilty of it. That's what I was talking about. Even that market is in the securitisation, and we cannot withstand that competition when it comes to investment opportunities, but let us do the most to restructure these businesses as best possible, to get the best conditions when it comes to achieving a strategic partnership or possible privatisation. As for the definition of this member who says that companies with social capital up to 40% can compete for loans in the Development Fund, I hope that in the coming years we will have this situation that for loans from the Development Fund, private companies compete, that we create a market economy here and that what is defined by the Constitution, that this is in some way lost, abolished, that we have the state of private initiatives, that the public sector and public enterprises are doing their jobs, that they are a service to citizens and businesses and that private capital, private initiative, private entrepreneurs on the market, by law, offer and demand, do the best possible work and that the state is helping them create only a framework of institutional, creating one legislative security and all those aspects that are in its domain, so that they all have a clear and equal starting position, equal opportunities for business. Nothing more. So, on behalf of the SDPS, I can say that we will vote for the amendments and additions of these laws and, of course, for an agreement that we will vote all-out to support Minister Sertic and the entire Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, in activities that involve reform and which involve a complete restructuring of economic activities, economic areas in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19688	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19689	I'll try to answer a few of your questions and your findings, simply to clarify things. I'll start with this last one, since it was already a question of about 40% of social capital. The privatisation law predicted that by the end of 2015 we must complete the privatisation process of all enterprises with social capital, so that social capital will no longer exist from 1 January, as part of the capital of any company, and in that part the story itself will be completely irrelevant. On the other hand, it is very important for us to have certain large companies that have acted and were the bearer of economic development in the previous period, or in some years, far behind us, even if there is a possibility of helping these companies if they find themselves in these problems that the state is helping in accordance with all the rules that exist, and today even with the rules that are dictated by the EU, because we have entered into the negotiation process and we have to take account of this aspect, regardless of how we are not yet a full member, but we have just opened negotiations, it is important that we not only strengthen our economy by applying all standards or the greatest number of standards, while making sure that this process is still gradual, that we introduce one rule at a time so that our companies do not create new earthquakes in the domestic economy, but on the other hand, and that we also make sure that we teach our businesses how to operate on a large market. They repeat what I have said very much so far, and often mentioned, that as far as business is concerned, it is completely irrelevant whether we are going to be an EU member or not, it is important that we train businesses to be at the level of standards, respect for the rules of work in the EU, that we have a competitive ability to compete with European businesses, because achieving that goal we are actually opening our businesses for any job anywhere on the planet. That's the goal we have to achieve. Certainly the political objective is the EU, we are part of the European continent, and here I don't think we have any doubt that it is the best and most qualitative framework, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't co-operate with everyone, it doesn't mean that first of all, just as the EU does, and how the companies that work in the EU today are co-operating with both China and Russia and Africa and with the countries of North and South America, and we are also allowing our companies to work. When I was talking about this help, you know that a few days ago we opened bids, that these days in the negotiation process with the American company Esmark, which was the only offer for "The Iron", we could not have started today, to talk about selling, not only saving 5,000 jobs, but also 15,000 indirect employees, about the additional gross product of the state itself, about all the effects that such a huge company is carrying, that there was no specific aid from 2012 until today, which has maintained at least minimum production and process. This is something that we also defend against our partners from the EU, which is something that we defend against the local public, again, not by reaching political points, but by talking about real economy. If we make a good arrangement with "Esmark" our company will continue to live on principles as iron and steel are sold everywhere in the world. It is an important aspect that in this part, when we observe all other privatisation processes and I said it on the board this morning, I want to repeat, the Serbian government has initiated "Telecom Serbia" as a recommendation to call a public tender for a Privatization Process adviser. Let's see what it is that people who are world-class experts, who are going to sign up and someone who wins that tender, what will recommend to the Serbian government and to us as Parliament to do with our biggest tele-operer. You have already mentioned how specific the market is today in telecommunications, that from year to year, new rules are being set, that these rules are getting higher and higher every year, and we were able to track them with our own resources, both human and human, and financial. Right now, we're starting to lose the race. Today we are thinking about 2017, 2018, 2020, the next 10, 15 or 20 years, to create a model in which Telecom will continue to be a very important element of Serbia's development and to function as our small and medium-sized enterprises. We will not run with any decision or make a shortcut just to get some funding for Telecom. No, for us Telecom is a strategically important company, which is why we propose this law. That is why we propose a privatisation advisor, to give us a model of how to do it, in which package, majority, minority, with which other obligations a company will have towards Serbia. Which means additional capital, which means having a company that has a market, which has the power to open new markets -- it's best seen through Etyhad and agreements and contracts that we have regarding JAT Serbia, today's "Er Serbia" that has the largest increase in passengers in Europe, which today gives us the value of our airport three or four times as much as just a year ago and we'll see which direction is going to take place in the next period and as long as that value is going to grow. And today that we can talk, not just about money for concession or sale, but about investment instruments in our companies, because the bigger the company's potential, the more attractive markets are, the more stable your investment is growing, and our investments are direct investments. From direct investment both foreign and domestic, we have real benefits as a society and as a country and they are important to be implemented as quickly and as best as possible in Serbia's economic life. What I would particularly like to point out, because you mentioned the question of devasted areas and problems, i.e. businesses, primarily SMEs, so small and medium-sized enterprises, micro and business activities that are very difficult to obtain from commercial banks - they are primarily turned over by programmes on the other hand, we are today or tomorrow completing a new regulation on the allocation of incentives for investment in Serbia, so to speak. Siepino regulations that once existed, in which we have created an entirely wide range of different models just encourages that areas that are with the least employed, i.e. with the highest unemployment in Serbia, which are devastated or below average have different models of higher nuances of incentives than, say, cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad or somewhere that need incentives, but let investors just choose how they want to define their investments. So we'll talk about it in the next period. I have already announced the Investment Act that will define the framework of this work. Finally, about public enterprises and the entire public administration. Public administration and some new concept of public enterprises' work are primarily turned to citizens and businesses. Public enterprises must exist and need to exist and do certain work on behalf of the state, but not in the way it has been done so far, because they do not exist just for themselves. They exist for a particular purpose and for services that must be provided at the best, best quality level. We, with 36 companies of the largest republican, public enterprises that are in some focus, to say, the work and monitoring of our ministry in the previous period, have carried out a series of meetings, and I think already at the assembly meeting some time ago, I said that in 2015 we are in the realisation plan that we are now to control and work with them in other elements, which are important to see this out by the end, 35 billion dinars made savings in relation to not the 2014 plan but the realisation in 2014. For us, public enterprises are, most of all, big losers, we have huge minuses. We made a commitment over the next two to three years to cancel that minus, to move a large part of the company into a positive business, and those companies that have no conditions for making profits but at least can be in line with good management practices and good business in the least word to be on the zero level so that they don't make losses for the state. So one comprehensive element of support for various forms of reform in the country is very important to us and from you MPs, because it is related to each of us, to everyday life, and especially to the business of small companies, small enterprises that have a serious problem and our commitment to the development of this sector is defined through a strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises whose one of the six pillars is exactly what you mentioned earlier, which is through the Development Fund, which is financial instruments that will not only be defined through commercial banks and through the Development Fund, but through a number of other instruments that we will develop just to learn from one side our entrepreneurs in which they can apply, where these are sources of funding, how they can be owed and in the right way to use funds, not to take funds from the Development Fund or some other state institutions and to buy an immediate jeep or good car for themselves. The funds you take from public institutions and loans must be dedicated. We've introduced strict controls since September of the month, each dinar given from the Development Fund has been controlled. I have already noted that we have a large number of start-up credits that are not charged because people have been very irresponsible towards these loans that the state has given just to encourage young people and those who first start their jobs. Unfortunately, our responsibility at this level is not adequate, and we will try to bring the controls, control measures, through the Development Fund, back to one normal process so that we also have these programmes and loans that we give within that framework really in the functional development of the economy, i.e. small enterprises in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19690	I thank Minister Sertic. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19691	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, have said a lot in the discussion so far, a lot of it on the Committee on Economic Affairs has indeed been said in order to find the best solutions. What this set of laws shows now is, above all, that the government has one responsible relationship. According to these changes and additions to the companies that we have heard about, the "Telecoma" action is the essence of, if you look at both the accounting and economic, the practical state takes care of its capital and return, i.e. by making a decision based on changes and addition of the law, it is shown that there would indeed be some negative financial effects and what has been said to be some two variants of letting one part of the action into certain free circulation on the stock market or that it is talking about administrative, in fact, accounting change. It's simply not an adequate solution because then you can't know in a certain way what kind of capital the state has. This is one way in which a large state responsibility is manifested and whether there will be certain models of privatisation, this is due to economic reforms, i.e. the adoption of a set of laws that we have had in this National Assembly and part of the practical exposure of the prime minister since 27 April 2014, but it is also the obligation of the 2015 budget and the agreement with the IMF that we need to know which finances, or public finances, we have. The adequate information that we have had so far has been partial and that is why when it comes to the Law on Public Property, that is, when these terms have been postponed, many MPs who have not understood why it is a matter of delaying all that is the essence of having a capital census, that is, by returning everything that is floating somewhere in their final balances, the state is now returning and gathering in one place. What is very important is that we enter into a certain analysis of capital through these changes and additions to the law. We heard that the state owns 58% of actions in Telecom, but it is very important to say, and somewhere everyone forgets that there are no adequate investment activities not only in Serbia, but in the region, and even in the EU. You have seen that the budgets and the most developed countries today are very much cubed precisely because of the lack of investment. Serbia has been able to implement economic reforms for the past two years, especially since the formation of the new government on 27 April, to open up in a certain way the possibility of signing an agreement with the IMF three-year-old, which is very difficult. Obviously, it wasn't that simple to do, and secondly, which is simply so far the competition on the market, especially in the area of telecommunications doesn't sleep. It simply follows these new trends and in general the area of telecommunications is today an area that is dizzy with its revenues and expenditures, but also by applying innovation is on the rise constantly. I think that Serbia with its capacity to run these companies, with financial balances like this that have not been created overnight all these years, but these balances are always being broken and what was once debt and what was income and expenditure, you come into a situation where they have to break somewhere. This point of fracture is obvious and the end of this fiscal year, 2014, and therefore it is quite understandable that in January of the month, which is why we have some criticism from colleagues from the opposition parties and the former regime, it says that it had to wait for the end of this financial year, it had to wait with the adoption of economic laws, it had to wait with the adoption of the 2015 budget, in order to simply return those actions through that capital of Telecom itself and that it was actually a way to get out effectively through any model of privatisation. Therefore, it is a great responsibility for the government to seek out a privatisation advisor who will say all the variations, that is, all the possibilities that the state should do in the best possible way, because don't forget that Telecom has a very large number of employees, don't forget that the company with the biggest turnover, or the biggest profit, is one of the largest companies with the biggest profits after the fiscal year, but don't forget that one of the leading companies is socially responsible enterprises. This means that it takes care of certain social categories through certain types of projects that really safeguard the social stability of this society. So, we've heard a lot about this topic at all, but what we should say is that this concept that we've proposed through the amendments to this law is really the only possible and state-of-the-art and ultimately possible in terms of maintenance and number of jobs, but also the application of new technologies. It should not be afraid to bring in foreign experts and experts in the very management of this company, because it has proved that innovations that really go at great speed and are implemented in production, i.e. in raising the quality of the organisation system is also the need of people who have a profession, and obviously these people are not all in Serbia. Many are abroad and many are the leading leaders in this area and should not be given, after all, their work and therefore it is a great honor, possibly in the future, to our engineers who will work with such people because they will learn a lot. What has to be said is that the system of governance in general shows the quality system of the organisation and this quality system today is only recognizable if you have international standards and if the state allows a certain level of quality of management organisation to be established. Now I'd like to move on to an amendment to the Fund Act. It seems to me that more Telecom has taken place in this debate, and I think that an unfair Development Fund has been neglected in that part of the debate when we talk about amendments and additions to the Law, because it is in fact the objectives of the 2015 budget. This change shows that we simply have to stop the trend from ever growing public debt and that is the only option, if the Fund practically guarantees its assets for all financial breakdowns, i.e. outstanding loans, i.e. outstanding loans to those to which the Fund has given. Otherwise, in the last term, the Committee requested an official report from the Fund, and not only from the Fund, from the Ministry of Finance, and we received in one truly integrated written form a list of all clients from whom no payment was made, taking into account the instruments of loan security and trust me that most of the funds went from the Fund. The smaller part went from the finance ministry's funds. As we can see, what should be concluded in this Fund by 2012, even from 20 companies of losers who were in very large debt, and today, according to the Tax Administration, even 17 received loans from the Development Fund, not once, but 119 times. This relates to how responsible someone has been to spending funds from the Development Fund. The moment the Serbian government made decisions to stop the Fund for Development, 2013, it was in one constructive and effective way that it essentially wanted to draw the line and to see what the companies were receiving, and also on the basis of implementing a kind of control and to implement new mechanisms of giving, controlled giving of funds with large security measures, as well as measures to return these loans. What's important is that of the first 20 companies in tax restructuring, companies owed more than 35 billion dinars, which is about 310m euros, but the state wanted to convince the public that despite this, there are good business plans with which it has placed as many as 13.8 billion dinars of credit through the Development Fund, which is around 120m euros. There is, of course, a reference to "Sartid" and "The flag of arms" and various types of companies, such as "Porcella" from Zaječar, "Serbian" from Valjev, but what is interesting is that in 2013, when funding from the Development Fund was stopped, according to the Ministry of Development at that time managed a portfolio worth more than 217 billion dinars. Why am I saying this? Because the past shows us that both Bogicevic and Percevic and Beko and Miskovic received money from this fund. It is interesting that Miskovic from the Delta agrar Development Fund received 5.5 billion dinars, that Bogicevic received 318 million dinars, that the result of the "suma sumarum" of the Fund's work was that 40% of the unpaid loans remained until 2013. What is important to say, what the minister said about "start ap" credits is that they are the biggest problem, but what has been observed according to statistics that after getting a "start ap" loan 7% of the companies that received these loans were immediately shut down, that is, out of these 40% of the non-refundable, plus 3% of the companies that received "start ap" loans have spent non-intentional, flying, wintering, buying luxury cars. We want to show that by 2013, this fund was essentially wasted in a large part of the funds, then assisted by certain companies that literally pumped state money, and did not use what they needed, which is to encourage small businesses, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. The idea is that in 2015 this development fund opens the door to all those companies that will be hearing about opening new regular places, for good production programs and, what is important, that they will be investment-oriented and that much less will go for the funds relating to the trade capital itself. So such a proposal to amend and supplement really shows that the result of all the laws that we have here, which are part of economic reforms, should begin to give concrete results. Finally, this agreement, which we are talking about, is practically opening the door for new investments in the energy sector, should really be supported, because this is something that Mr. Antic was talking about, which will first of all create 500 new jobs. I had a chance to meet the representatives of the company "Kmek" and what's interesting is that it's not just this vote that the state is going to work with this company. Companies in the field of energy of this type have many programmes related to innovation in the field of energy, but also related to the protection of the environment. This is important, which should simply be entered into this joint partnership in an adequate way, because the portfolio of action and the opportunities of projects of these companies is truly unimaginable at this time, not only for Serbia and countries in the region, but also for many in the EU. So, what's good is having partners like this, both economically and financially stable, with conditions so well negotiated for credit and the possibility of carrying out a job that will ensure energy stability, which Serbia will no longer have to worry about so much. I think that all these solutions that are on the agenda today by the Serbian Progressive Party are fully acceptable, that they simply show part of Mr. Vukic's exposé, which is largely more than 50% of the practicality of the law that we have already passed here on stage. In Voting Day, we will ally accept such a proposal, and we appeal to other parties that they really vote in favour of such drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19692	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19693	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I can say that we have paid attention to the analysis of this package of reform laws and we are assessing that we should continue on this reform path and support these three amendments to the laws that are on the agenda today. I will try to state the reasons why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group considers that we should support them, but also to enter some kind of dialogue, with the fence that I am a politician, but also a Serbian citizen and I represent voters, that is, part of the voter of the Republic of Serbia. I think that all these reform laws, whether we want to or not, are long-term about us, whether we're in the position of government or opposition. The story of privatisation in the Republic of Serbia lasts much longer than the government or previous government does. It was updated in the early 1990s, and it was still in the time of the one-party system. You know that the last reform government has tried simultaneously with the form of a Joint Vencher or some other forms of privatisation to enter the market. The whole story is actually about one fact. My party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, was quite burdened to prove whether the state is still a good host, or whether we have fear of the capitalist way of doing things. It is these reform laws that are on the agenda today that show that and how it has matured consciousness in Serbia that we need to move forward with the world and that we must speed up the introduction, so to speak, the market-oriented rules of the game and market-oriented mechanisms for implementing what is in our best interests, which is that our economic machinery is launched, to ensure the inflow of investments, to ensure that foreign investors are provided, that we are credible partners for investment and that the reform laws we adopt really work. My esteemed colleagues paid different attention to one of these three amendments to the law. I would not repeat myself, I would just point out what is a key amendment to these laws, and that is an amendment to the Business Society Act, that it is crucial in fact to allow specifically "Telecom" to retain 20% of its own actions, i.e. to increase that percentage. In fact, to be the shareholders of this company, that is what interests all citizens, not only the Republic of Serbia, but also citizens and former employees to have the right to prevent purchases. This is something that really needs to be pointed out, because this entrepreneurial spirit, this entrepreneurial culture in our country, although there has been mass privatisation, that is to say, distribution of some of these actions and citizens when we talk about NIS, Aerodrom or Telecom, that we are still learning about this entrepreneurial culture. As for the draft law amending the Development Fund Act, here we in the Socialist Party paid much more attention, because we adopted this idea at a recently held congress, or we support this idea, which has already been in circulation for several years, on the possible establishment of a development bank in Serbia. Of course, our recent political experiences are not positive. In particular, I'll be precise, it's an abuse, so to speak, of the Vojvodine Development Bank, but I would point out what's positive. It is positive that we have one institutional network for development economic policy in Serbia. It is not only about the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, it is about the Agency for the Insurance of Exports of Finance, but also about the Vojvodine Development Bank, which I will mention, and the Fund for Capital Investments of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion. My esteemed colleagues have already said, although these institutions exist, there have been more or less politicization, non-purpose allocations of these funds, and also of those users who are not in politics, who claim to be exclusively in the economy, there have been various abuses, machinations and manipulations. We only mentioned the start ap loans. So these are the businessmen who are just learning this corporate business. The key problem in Serbia, I hope we all agree, is how to get healthy money. What is healthy money in Serbia because investments, or loans from commercial banks, are extremely expensive? So that's the key question -- how to heal the economy, how to get out of that vicious circle where we don't have capital insemination, to use now perhaps an outdated Marxist dictionary? The way we were able to even run our businesses in a single-party system. I've already mentioned that at the same time across, say, the Water Development Fund and development policy. This is something that is a key problem in Serbia - how do we balance this regional development, that is, underdevelopment? Minister Sertic has already talked about the devasted municipalities, we have accurate records. How do we root out this political or economic culture, so to speak, of certain local self-governments to simulate underdevelopment even when these placed funds produce results, just to get more funds from the central authorities or from the budget? So we all need to get serious and figure out how the market works. That is why we have proposed, that is, we support these proposed measures to ensure that the budget, i.e. that the state withdraws from the Fund for Development in the form of guarantees and that the guarantees and loans provided by the Development Fund are simply guaranteed by the Development Fund. Here, now I'm going back to that question. If we were to start this development bank at this time, I know that Mr. Sertic is there because he was also an expert and also at the head of the Chamber of Commerce, which is extremely engaged on the issue, that we would need at least one billion euros. Where do you find that money? That's why we have to stay out of the world. We must not be in a dilemma from our political or party interests and invent some middle road or wait for something to happen. Nothing special will happen for Serbia, we must go the way the transition countries, the former communist, socialist countries, have been taking those countries that are similar to us, which have managed to join the EU. Even some neighbouring countries have this development bank. This is now not an appeal for the establishment of a development bank, although we support this idea, but rather an appeal for the rationalisation of these potential investment funds that we can recover from the Serbian economy. We have to save. I often say – is it not that saving is one of the most dangerous words that citizens are afraid of? Since the early 1980s, we have been saving, when the external debt of Yugoslavia was revealed in 1981. We know today that the burden on Serbia's public debt is high. We're a highly-indebted country. At the same time, I stress that this government cannot be blamed for bad economic decisions in any case. I'm going to say exactly, since 2000, former DOS members have managed the economy, but at the same time we have nothing to blame each other for, pointing the finger at the blame, if we're incompetent businessmen. So we have to learn this savings policy and we have to make decisions that maybe citizens won't understand in the first wave, but at the same time they'll realize we're not doing anything else that doesn't make much richer countries than we are. I would also remind myself of the fact that in this legislative body, if I am not mistaken, in 2004, the Privatisation Committee, which conducted some kind of monitoring over inefficientness, or efficiency, even considered complaints from certain privatised companies, probably the most workers complained there. In that period from 2004 to 2011, the final balance was that as many as one quarter of these massive privatised companies were actually unsuccessful, that there were both corruption and manipulation. It's that 25%, where we had black and white that we used something or that we weren't capable of. But that's why, that memory we have at that time before our expansion of the Yugoslav economy, but at the same time Serbian, when we were on foreign markets, proves that we are capable businessmen, in the way that our citizens are able to work when they go to the countries of developed market economies. Finally, the third law, or agreement, where we show the same saving culture is the loan agreement that will enable, as Minister Antić said, to build a significant object of energy capacity after two decades, shows how much we are able to improve our country's credit rating and trust in the international capital market, and also our political reputation, but also because we insist on reform moves and because this government has finally gained courage, which perhaps some earlier politicians could, so we get more favourable credit arrangements, as is this case from China's export "Export import bank", where the credit payment deadline is 20 years, including a period starting from seven years and at an exceptional interest rate of 2.5% a year. So, when looking at this continent, we must be aware that we are constantly in one process of reading, reading, searching for gaps, grey zones, legally undefined in every reform law, I say, we have already had this experience that all SPS MPs, as well as from ruling positions and other partner parties, especially the SNS that has the most MPs, unlike some perhaps opposition MPs who submit a large number of amendments, do not remain until the end of the long-term sessions, so they are not as faithful to what they preach. So, they don't practice this until the end, that we will be present, that we will read these reform laws very carefully, and that we may also improve possibly some amendments, but that we think that Serbia has taken big and large steps, reform steps, and that Serbia is a very good news and that Serbia is a credible economic partner. So there's no way out. We're undermining the thick line. Bilans we know, he may be defeating. We are not dealing with guilt, but we have made a decision, the Government, led by Prime Minister Vukic said, yes, we will be you, regardless of perhaps historical responsibility that citizens will not understand in the next election cycle, but someone has to do it. The SPS Members strongly support the proposed amendments to the law and this loan treaty and we think that our partners from abroad, especially financial institutions, not only the IMF but also the European Investment Bank, the EU, will, in the same way as the Chinese Bank, understand that we understand ourselves in the market economy and that we are good economic partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19694	We're moving on to the speaker list. I give my word to the MPs of Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19695	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing three draft laws – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Society, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Loan Treaty for a Preferred Customer for the Second Phase Package of the project Kostolac. On this occasion, I would like to say that the NS parliamentary group in voting day will support all three amendments to the law. As far as the Business Society Act is concerned, it is clear that it is adopted for two reasons. The first is because January 25th is due, and the second is that Telecom should retain 20% of the shares and that shareholders have the right to prevent purchases. I would also agree here somewhere with fellow MPs who have pointed out to amend and supplement this law only practically because of Telecom. The deadline that points out this, but so are you, Mr Sertic, and in the debate on the budget and today, has pointed out that there is a comprehensive change and supplemental, or practically new law that we will have in a few months, which will practically apply to all companies. As far as this Law on business societies related to Telecom is concerned, is it really a key question whether we should sell Telecom or not? Most citizens would answer that question – no. Opponents of the sale as an argument state that Telecom is the number of users in the first place and the absolute leader in the fixed telephony domain with a market share of 95%, that it operates with profit. In their opposition, however, there is no comparison between the economic effects of maintaining state property and sales. We've sold and bought Telecom several times before, but the key question is did we learn a lesson? I don't think we're even supposed to draw a line here. Meanwhile, millions of citizens have won 27% of the votes in the Telecom Assembly for free, but they are practically authorized. I think all companies should go to the stock market and all companies should be seen and competed on the market. Also, the fact that the NS 2010 was against the sale of a state-owned telecommunications company because it offered a lower price than real value in the tender for the sale of Telecoma. It is clear that a higher price could have been obtained during a pre-crisis period, 2006, 2007 because the world economy was in a strong expansion, and telecommunications, I would say, at the historic peak. There is now a moderate recovery of the world economy and we will see what kind of offer will be for Telecom. I think the price for Telecom Serbia will be more certain after the privatisation process for Slovenia's Telecom is completed. Otherwise, I must also point out that all countries in the environment have sold their telecommunications companies. That's why I think this is the moment when you need to learn from this company's previous business and practically draw a line. As for the Development Fund and this bill, I think we have two key changes here. The first is not to plan annual plans, but only plans, which I think is totally fine. All my colleagues today have apostrophe of the responsibility of the Fund's Management Board. I think it's very important that this is taken into account and come up with concrete data as to how many failed credit payments from the Development Fund so far, how much money has not been returned and how much that's been compared to bank loans. This is because of transparency and because of the public, it is very important that we receive this information in due time. As for the loan to Bones 2, I think the situation is more or less clear. Once again, I want to say that we will support all three amendments to the law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19696	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19697	Thank you. Of the three laws that are in the united principle debate before us, one law has my vote "yes", one has "against", and for the third I wait to finish the debate and get answers from the minister so that I can decidently say whether I am in favour or not. The law that has my vote "yes" is a loan for Bones B for several reasons. I think it is important that we understand when we make decisions confirming the efforts of various governments, I look at actions, not people, when it comes to loans like this, I wish Serbia was a state that lends loans to others, but it's not. We can't do some things without a loan. We can have a discussion about whether this is the best possible loan, whether it's all done, we can have a debate about it, but if we explain the logical thought in our heads, if we want Kostolac B, if we want to develop, it's not working without a loan, and that's why my vote is "for" that credit. The vote "against" is for amendments to the Law on Economic Society and again from a completely principled stance. What's ahead of us is the government's decision and I don't get into why it's not in December and why it's not in October and November, it's convenient to play with what's seven days before the deadline, but it's unproductive. My voice is "against" because I see from the proposal that lies ahead that the government wants the same means as in 2009 to produce some other result. I don't see that possible. Three years have passed, the way the property is distributed is clear, different valuable people have been working on it and all we have now is -- give me another three years or a period. Especially for information from the Minister on the involvement of the Privatization Advisor. Why do we expect that the result that the privatisation advisors will give us for Telekom will be different from what happened three years ago? I don't have a valuable attitude that I'm against privatisation or a valuable attitude that I'm for a model privatisation of Telekom. I have a valuable attitude against our common habit of constantly using the same means and expecting different results. Someone's got to stop it sometime. I have hope that Minister Sertic is one of the people who will stop using the same mechanisms over and over again, and that we share the expectations that there will be different results. What's the explanation is that this is a consistent way of preventing damage. That is why the change in the percentage of actions and due to respect for the deadline by January 25th. That's the reason. So, I'm not going in, we can go into some other dialogue and how much of a delusion there is about how money is made. How misleading it is for us that we could really be a very rich and successful country, but here we are. I think the possible privatisation of Telekom is a good opportunity for us to discuss all this no matter how the government decides. Why am I against it? Because we all know that social capital companies, this is now about the Fund Act, about amending the Fund Act, which I am waiting for to end the debate to decide, that in 2015, which, with its 31st December, has no more social capital. What we are told here with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fund Act, that without the formation of annual plans, there will be greater public and greater flexibility of the Fund and that this Fund is coming out of the obligation system, i.e. there is no turning into a public debt that would come as a guarantee. Just a month ago, we had here, not just a month ago in session, but in public turning the debt "Er Serbia" into a public debt. We have to decide whether it's good to create a public debt or not to create a public debt. Do the extortion and I fully understand it, I do not qualify for the valuable conversion of "Er Serbia" into public debt, but I qualify to valuely then amend and supplement the Fund Act that tells me that there should be no public debt because then 19.3 billion dinars were converted into public debt. So, I don't have any special questions for the minister. I will listen carefully to dialogue and explanations, and if I change my view of amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, I will announce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19698	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19699	I would like to thank the President. Dear Minister Sertic, the honourable fellow MPs, since the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our friend Dr Diana Vukomanovic, has expressed her position to support the proposed legislative changes, I will only further point out that it is a consistent and principled SPS position which is also held by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the policy that the government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily its prime minister, the first vice president and all ministers in the government, represent and implement. In view of the fact that we also participate in this political action and support provision, we MPs at the SPS Parliament Club, which is another additional reason to recognise, exclusively in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that today the proposed laws we are discussing also have and what reason for support and, as Dijana Vukomanovic has respected it, they will indeed be supported in the day of the vote. In my presentation, I will refer only to one part of the proposed legal acts, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act. Dear Ministers, here we should start by focusing ourselves or by proposing that these changes be proposed and complemented by the Business Society Act. In any case, the focus is from our own action, the action society, and when we talk about this concept or legal institute, because it is a legal institute that is systemised in the provisions of the Law on Business Society, we still have to tie it with the fundamental interest of the state that is related to Telekom Sr. Belgrade. Here are the dilemmas that I, as a lawyer and lawyer, will agree to. Dilems that relate to the retroactivity of laws and dilemmas that relate to selectivity. When we talk about these dilemmas, we need to determine ourselves immediately the following way. It is true that in this situation we have resorted to amendments and additions to the law to allow Telekom Srbija A.D. to be placed in the best possible way in the process of selling its own actions. If we hadn't resorted to such changes and additions, a fundamental question arises whether or not it might be possible for any of the potential investors who would claim to buy their own shares at all. In a situation where we have two diametrically different things, and one is an initiative, an effort, a tendency and a necessity to find potential investors. The second is respect for the law. Obviously, this dilemma is kind of, I'm going to come out of what I think is a lawyer and get out of parts of the profession, obviously we've found a solution politically. This political solution is precisely an attempt to allow Telecom's amendments and additions to the law to save its assets, and the rescue of those assets precisely implies that that deadline that has been defined as a three-year deadline in which actions must be estranged and all that exceeds 10% of the company's capital value is to be saved in some way. It is indeed a goal, and this goal is achieved by this law. On the other hand, as a lawyer, I can't, in any case, step on the profession and say that I'm inclined to define this as a non-selective act. The selection is set, Telekom is being saved. In that sense, we can't say, we can't ignore the fact that this law is directed at only one economic entity and that's Telekom. As far as retroactiveness is concerned, honourable ministers, given your rich experience both as a businessman and as a political official, we must have one fact in mind and none of us here will question the situation of Telekom, which is that we have a general interest as a reason and a constitutional explanation that the retroactiveness of the law, in particular, is similar to the situation of Telekom, found only in this situation. I sincerely hope that it will never happen again that the general interest is constantly adjusted and used as a reason for the retroactiveness of the law, because then we will come into a kind of legal anarchy, so there will be a new company, so a new business entity will appear, and we will save someone's property, which again binds to the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and again we will call for general interest in the individual case. There is no general interest in an individual case, so I hope we understand each other absolutely, and I support what means necessity and necessity. We in the SPS parliamentary group have no single problem in supporting something necessary, and it is necessary to save the most profitable company with the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this? The reminders are working, four years ago a privatisation process for Telekom was also launched. This is due to the proper informing of citizens, then the estimated value of the entire company was around 2.2 billion euros, i.e. 2 billion and 200m euros, and then the government asked a minimum of 1.4 billion euros for a 51% package. Again, reminders work, as the only customer in that period, Telekom Austria appeared, with an offer that was not accepted by the then government. It was not accepted because Telekom offered almost 950 million, and the difference of up to 1.4 billion offered in terms of investment investments. That tender ended in failure. That tender stayed with some kind of deficit, or you fiasco, when it comes to Telekom. We are now in a situation where we have 78.% of the state-owned shares, that we have an obligation under the law to choose or execute a choice of so-called. the elected adviser, who will give a suggestion, opinion, advice, a decision to see together with the Government which part of these 78.1% of actions will be put in the process of possible purchase. In this sense, what is very important to point out is the fact that we now, with the proposed changes and additions, are in a position to accept the proposal's motive as completely justified, but, indeed, fully justified, above all, for reasons that have a purely financial dimension. Let us not forget the fact that Article 282 regulated the concept and essence of its own actions. What are your own actions? It's those actions society gets from its shareholders. In order for Telekom to acquire those actions, he had to be in charge at the moment of acquisition. That task had several quantifiers, several generators. If that debt remained and Telekom was not sold, then the burden of debt would be far higher, then it would reflect negatively on the state as well, the Republic of Serbia. In order to pay dividends to the Republic of Serbia, how? To what extent would the Republic of Serbia be damaged as the majority owner of Telekom. All these financial aspects, all these financial indicators point to the necessity of the amendments and additions you have proposed, both in relation to Article 288 and in relation to Article 287. Why am I saying this? Because indeed 20% of the protection of property in this situation is something that represents legal certainty, but not only legal security, but economic security. On the other hand, the explanation you have given is acceptable and we in the SPS parliamentary group have no problem affirming such an explanation as extremely positive because it is the fact that the law institute is now defined by only one segment. However, honourable ministers, I must also agree here as a lawyer and a lawyer fully with distinguished counterpart Batic. The ambiguity of this standard can produce serious problems in practice, both in terms of interpretation and in terms of application. The right to cross shopping is just the right thing to do. If the law is systematized, and the law Corps is again defined by system law, then it is unacceptable and represents non-sensual, given some harsh word, that it is the right to be provided by a stockholder society and that it is the duty of a company that I have the right. There is no need to say, if the law and the Constitution have defined the category of law holders, in particular, the right to prevent purchases. What further means that someone is obliged to say that I have the right to do so? I have the right to have it one way or the other, and there's my colleague, Honorable Miss Batic Olga, absolutely right. I would ask you, through the amendments, to actually correct this article, at least as far as the text itself is concerned, that it is in a practical sense fully applicable and that it would not cause any under-supervision of the profession, and on the other hand, it would not cause problems in direct application. In the end, I just want to point out another very important fact, which is that with the proposed changes, there has been something that is primarily the interest of the state, which is to create the necessary legal preconditions, that finally the tender procedure or some other procedure that will be defined by law for the sale of Telekom, be successfully implemented. Once again in support of you, in terms of supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of the support of the policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and primarily in the interests of citizens, the SPS and MPs of the SPS Group support the amendments and additions to the law we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19700	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19701	Dear MP, I will repeat what I said to MP Batic, which is that I certainly expect from you an amendment or a joint or separate one on this issue. I can't give you a direct answer right now because I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know how a member is defined. It totally makes sense to me what you're saying, it doesn't rule out the essence of at least my understanding of legal action, and I think it's logical, unless there's some other definition that I personally don't see right now, and maybe you know it and I think it would really be simpler and clearer to express that article in this way. What I will certainly repeat from your story, first I thank you for your support, and that is you have separated your share into legal and other financial, and here we fully agree that we are passing the law at the last minute. Retroactivity is not endangered either Telekom or any other part because the legal solution is practically for Telekom by the 25th and for all other companies is certainly potential within the deadlines thereafter. What is important to us is that this is a purely economic issue and that we do not violate the Constitution, we do not violate any other legal prerogatives that would be important to us both committees and legislation whether or not they will declare amendments and have already agreed on this kind of law. This is indeed an economic issue, and I see that we all agree that it is very important for the future of Telekom, which is an important factor in Serbia's economic life, to provide the best conditions in the future, that we ourselves cannot be surprised, that we have important partners and that the element that we will define within the next few months is proposals in what way, how, in what kind of partnership, privatisation, strategic partnership or some third form, we will get some people or some company or some company that will function as the development of Serbia's economy. That's the only reason we're thinking long-term. I repeat, not in this year, Telecom has its good results, regardless of all the problems facing and now serious competition. But speaking of the coming years and the future, I'm afraid Telecom can get into trouble, because this kind of activity, this industry today, along with the big development element that it has in it, is a serious basis for this development, is a huge, constant investment that we don't currently have the ability to do, and if we don't do this shift from 10% to 20%, that's why we would risk the balances in such a way that we have even less. I thank everyone for the suggestions, and we will certainly look through the amendments at every meaningful well-founded proposal to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19702	I thank Minister Sertic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19703	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the amendments to the Law on Economic Society came a little late, because that deadline that was December 31st could be respected and then we wouldn't enter into the retroactivity that exists now and in future legal problems that we can have as a state, precisely because, as we heard you, it's going to be in the privatisation process, and the question is, after that privatisation, when the only criterion, market value, and not accounting value, is what's important. Will minority shareholders be satisfied and will anyone dispute the legality of retroactivity? That's what I'm asking you to answer, because it's a huge property, and I think it could have been solved in another way. Why was the state disputed to transfer ownership of 10% of Telecom to another entity, a legal person? It could have been done, either through public debt. We've been in debt, we've heard from colleagues, and for far less significant things. I think it's a significant property and we can't treat it this way. When your party, Mr. Minister, said in 2011, that they would file criminal charges for those who were carrying out the privatisation of Telecom, or trying to privatise Telecom Serbia for nearly two billion euros, it was then said that Telecom is family silver and should not be sold. I agree here. What has changed in the ruling party's economic policy? What has changed in the telecommunications market in three years so significant that Telecom is now to be sold, that it is now only important to privatise this stock society? I don't think there's much difference, and I don't think there's going to be a much higher price than two billion. Will criminal charges be filed against those who have initiated the privatisation process? The other problem I see in these changes is legal regulation for the benefit of a society, even if it's a state. If we are looking for a free market, if we are for a market where the state will not interfere crucially, and the telecommunications in our country is so, how can we pass one law for only one society? Why has Telecom been under management for three years, of which this government has been represented in the Supervisory Board for two and a half years, not previously reacted? Why hasn't Telecom estranged actions in accordance with the law for the benefit of the state? That could have been done. There was no need to get into this troublesome legal procedure. I repeat, there may be a problem after privatisation, because the future buyer may be complaining about this, perhaps minority shareholders, who may think they will be damaged and will create, I'm sure, great problems. I think it could have been avoided that we were fundamental, timely and that people from Telekom management, from the Serbian government, reacted in time. These changes create an exception. Exceptions are never good, especially if reforms are carried out in the economic and financial sectors. I think these changes depict the complete reform the government is talking about. I don't think they're fundamental, that they're not legally justified enough, and I don't think they'll bring what's most talked about, a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19704	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19705	Thank you. I'm sorry the MP wasn't here in the O.R. when we talked about all the elements in the last hour and a half or two. I don't understand your repetition of the newspaper articles that we've clarified here, that many have transmitted the wrong information? It was not December 31st that the deadline for selling was, that is, to enter the job for three years to solve the problem with its own actions, but on January 25th. So, on December 31st 2011, the government made a decision, and on January 25th, it came into effect, operationally, the contract was concluded. So on January 25th, 2012, Telecom Serbia won its property, so on January 25th, the deadline for the smooth adoption of this extension is the limit. So it's not about Telecom, it's about all the companies that this type of activity is about, so we really can't talk about retroactivity in that part. As for the issue of selling shares primarily on the open market, i.e. on the stock market, I have already explained that since 2008, we have had a serious problem here, an international crisis that has seriously affected our domestic stock exchange. Expunging those 20% stock on the stock market would allow or provide potentially negative effects of speculative capital, as the offer would be higher, and the question is whether we would have enough demand for actions to keep it on the right scale and on the market itself. As far as SNS's position is concerned, we are thinking today about the future of Telecom, how the company will not operate in 2014 or 2015, but how the company will secure its good market business in 2016, 2017, 2018, etc. So now we create assumptions for the future and the process itself. If we choose to privatize and enter this process, it will take some time. During that time, the company must work, it must produce results, as it does today, as it did in 2014, but it is important for us to not come to the shortcut, to make hasty decisions, so we have entered into the process of seeking out a privatisation consultant who will offer us models that we will then assess what is of interest to the state of Serbia the best model that we would enter into the long-term empowerment process of "Telecoma" as a company that should affect Serbia's economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19706	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis are you answering? (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. To the presentation of Mr. Minister? (John Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. So you're not mentioned. (John Jovanovic, from the place: You have not heard. It's been said I haven't been in two hours and I've read the papers. Please give me your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19707	Mr Minister, it is really not appropriate for you to answer to the MPs, that I read in the paper the incorrect information that by December 31st, we had a deadline, because it is a well-known thing that on December 31st 2011, a contract was signed in Athens on the purchase of OTE actions. Three years later it was December 31st, 2014. You can't answer to MPs like that. As for taking stock on the stock market, not 20%, it was enough 10% action to be carried out and the state could, if it wanted to guarantee the price, go out through another company and achieve the price it wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19708	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19709	I completely agree with you on the date of the signing, but gaining the right to action is after a certain procedure. The procedure lasted 25 days. So, on January 25, 2012, Telecom gained 20% of the ownership of shares and that day is taken as the starting day for three years, which stands out for the other day in advance. I don't dispute your information about signing a contract, but I'm talking about the moment of acquisition of ownership of actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19710	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19711	The Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will support all three proposed laws. That was said in her presentations by distinguished counterpart Dijana Vukomanovic, holding a little higher on the Development Fund. Dear counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic spoke about the bill on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. I'm going to stay a little bit longer under the third law, and that's the bill on confirming the loan agreement to build thermal energy facilities in Kostolc. When it comes to loans, I think two things are important. The first thing is under what conditions are the funds borrowed? I want to publicly acknowledge that the conditions under which this loan was taken are favourable. So it's taken with a 20-year maturity, a seven-year grace period and a fixed interest rate of 2.5%. What is also for recognition and support is that the loan is somewhat more favourable than the previous loan that served for the first phase of construction, i.e. the revitalisation of the two thermo-energy blocks in Kostolc. We just heard the data, which is 15 years old, with five years of grace period and 3% interest. So that's the first question - under what conditions is the loan taken? I want to publicly confess to giving full support to that. Secondly important, no less important, the question is – what is the loan taken for? I consider this a very important issue for the simple reason that there are two things – is the loan taken for economic development, for energy, for economy, for agriculture or for consumption? This time, the loan aims to give the impulse to Serbia's economic development and for these reasons deserves our support, unlike the loans that would be for consumption, where it would not have our support. Why is this loan that we are talking about today still important and as a confirmation of the government's policy that deserves absolute support? This is a confirmation that the government is, in addition to the necessary savings for the financial consolidation of public finances in Serbia, precisely to create a space for greater economic development, and at the same time very strongly turns and raises issues of re-industriousisation of Serbia, that is, the issue of economic development, because without it, there is no improvement in Serbia without new value. The loan just confirms such a single government policy. What is this loan used for, or for what? It's meant for the second phase of a project package that's agreed with, I say, the Chinese, which is worth about a billion dollars. I'll remind you, the first phase, where we took a $293m loan, was to revitalise B1 and B2, the absence of these blocks, but also to build railway infrastructure, ports, docks and roads, a very important issue. We had a chance to find out these days that both blocks were revitalized. What does that mean and what is it about the needs of Serbian citizens? That means two blocks have enabled a thermal power plant to live 20 years of new life with full capacity. I stress – with full capacity, for the simple reason that they have never worked with full capacity. That means all 350 megawatts. The data says they worked maximum with 245 megawatts. So, in addition to an extended lifetime, new kilowatts have been obtained. It's these new kilowatts, and when it turns into money, it's about 20m euros of new money to be made at the expense of new kilowatts. Here's just the information that last year, when block B2 was restored, he brought in more funds than $12 million. So it's a great job, which, apart from the new value that was brought in, employs over 400 workers from domestic companies and half of the funds they had gone to domestic companies. It is a successful business, and it is also a successful company called TE-KO Kostolac, which ended in 2013 with 3.6 billion profits and at the same time made it possible to supply electricity to Serbia, with full protection of the environment and increased energy efficiency, i.e., translated – with less coal power. This second package we're talking about today concerns the construction of two new B3 blocks of 350 MW and the expansion of the mines from nine million to 12 million tonnes of coal annually. I think that, too, should be said to the public, a very important investment and I will use one sentence that Mr. Antic said in the opening statement and explanation - this is a key step towards building a new energy facility after a few decades. A very important job, therefore, to build a new capacity for electricity production. What do you get out of it? The security of electricity supplies is obtained, electricity imports are reduced and the balance of payments is improved, budget revenues are increased based on value added tax and all of this, with the efficient use of spare coals and the application of the most modern European standards on environmental protection. I want to make this a special point. All the work that will be done will just comply with the most developed European standards when it comes to this area. What else is important, what else is important? This job also means reviving the business activity that we must not ignore and the growth of employees, not only through direct employment of workers on the new block, data are that when a new block is completed to employ about 260 workers and 250 surface spears after capacity expansion, it is about 500 workers, but will also be employed through the engagement of domestic construction operations and electrical engineering. So, even now at the stage of work, as was the case and when the revitalization of B1 and B2, when over 400 of our workers worked on these jobs. All in all, in short, the reason why I came forward is because this is a significant job and good news for Serbia to invest in a new energy facility, to contribute to energy stability, but at the same time to reviving economic activity and employment growth. So, a loan that is invested in development, into a future that will bring new value and employ new people. For these reasons, I believe they will have a unique support when voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19712	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Since Balsha's not here right now, I'll give him my word when he gets here. The People's Messenger Miletic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19714	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS group, will take part in this debate after the performance and story brought by our parliamentary group head Diana Vukomanovic and other MPs, Mr. Jovanovic and Petronijevic. I want to support these laws that are on the agenda in the National Assembly today. We are part of a coalition that drags forward in all fields, trying to move all forces to move the wheel of economic development and Serbia's progress. We are certainly proud of the fact that we are part of that coalition and therefore we have also taken over and part of the responsibility of this very difficult job we have been doing since 2012 because things seem to have been on the way today in Serbia. I will also remind myself of some political views that occurred in 2000 after 5 October when every co-operation with the east, with China, with Moscow, mocked Russia and promoted only co-operation with Western countries. We as an SPS which is a state-owned party, and today in the coalition with the SNS we have shown, but it seems to me over a long period of years that we have no prejudice in this regard. There aren't those good guys and those bad partners we want to work with and we don't want to work with. Today we are working equally with both China and Russia and the Arabs and with Western European countries and with America. Wherever it can contribute to the improvement in Serbia, with economic development, such partners are certainly welcome. First of all, I will say a few words about what is an agreement that allows the implementation of the second phase package of the Kostolac B project, from the simple fact that I come from that area, from Braničevsky County, and that such a project is very important for Braničevski County, but of course not only for Braničevsky County, but also for all of Serbia. The whole thing began on 20 August 2000, and since then several significant projects have been successfully implemented that are financed through the favourable loans of the "Export-Import" Bank as the authorised institutions of the People's Republic of China. Article 11 of the Agreement provides that works, materials and services can be delivered to certain businesses and thus it has been established that all of this can be used in the energy field for the construction of power plants. This led to the conclusion of the general contract on 22 July 2000, i.e. the Agreement on the Implementation of the Kostolac 2 Project Package. We mentioned here and several times more speakers told that story and it may have repeated what I'm going to say and repeat, but it's not a mistake to mention it multiple times, because we have here a good job that Serbia has entered and it's actually going on a once-in-a-way line. The first phase was to perform the work on revitalising the plant B1 and B2 blocks, and the second phase that goes in the next period will employ $715m and something more. This is very important for the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, a contractual agreement was concluded at the end of 2014 and one such co-operation continues. It is of great importance to us that we have had a visit from the Chinese prime minister who has brought together the prime ministers and senior representatives of many countries in Central and Eastern Europe, so that this is a great moment for the country and for the promotion of one policy led by this SNS-led coalition, so that we can rely on, to some extent, on what is the investment of the Chinese side's capital in this part of Europe. It's a big deal that we're through this business, when it comes to continuing investment in Kostolc, by revitalizing these plants and by expanding the capacity of exploiting the Drmno surface spear where we've had nine million coal production a year, and after these investments we'll have 12 million tons in the next 30 and over years, in fact the age of exploitation is projected by 2052. Through the construction of block B3 where we will allow the production of new 350 megawatts of electricity, we come into a favourable situation through one economic growth of the Republic of Serbia and this region. So we're going to have significant effects from one of these investments. This expansion of capacity will employ over 500 people...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19715	Finish your thought after the time has been spent
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19716	Just to remind you, while you were checking out the first part of your session, about a minute passed, you didn't turn off the time, but good. Let me just conclude through one sentence that the SPS will support these laws, that we are proud of what investment is primarily in Kostolec, that we were part of it and our senior SPS representatives were still on the road to this co-operation with China that culminated in 2014 at the end when the prime minister came to visit our country. We will vote for these laws and continue to support this one course of the reform government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19717	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19718	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected ministers and dear guests, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society, we must first of all stress that this is not a European law. This proposal is certainly contrary to the EU Directive 2012/30 of 25.10.2012 in Article 22. I know we are not a member of the EU, but in the process of harmonising the rules and trying to open accession negotiations, we are moving from clearly the opposite direction, and I think that the Serbian government is in line with the latest developments that have covered our political life in Serbia, obviously changing external political priorities, even when it comes to amending and supplementing this bill. What's also another thing that's bothering us is that this amendment and supplementation, that is, this proposal is not according to the RS Constitution, and I will explain why. It is generally problematic from the aspect of legal theory and respect for the basic principles of both the Constitution and legislation to pass laws as general acts concerning individual cases, even in this particular case, it was "Telecom itself". The question is whether such a proposal has been amended and complemented and it is also something that the DS Parliament Club will insist on. A similar situation is with provisions for amending the law to take effect the next day from the day of publication. Public interest is needed, and with the provision that the law applies retroactively. Today you mentioned certain dates that represent some deadline. However, there is no explanation for the amendments and additions to this law, and I believe that it is totally unacceptable from the point of view of legal certainty and that this proposal should not come before the MPs of the National Assembly. I cannot personally, although I have tried to assess the consequences of such changes and additions to the Law on other stock companies, which, of course, are not Telecom, and I think and do not believe that anyone, since such a proposal came before MPs, has made a detailed analysis or serious analysis of how this will be reflected, as some fellow MPs have said, of the rest of the economy. In particular, Article 287 amends a member who regulates the obligation to sell his own shares by increasing the maximum percentage that a company may retain as its own actions after a certain period, without amending the provision of Article 282 paragraph 2 of point 4 which regulates the issue of legal acquisition of the maximum percentage of its own actions. So, in Article 287. We have a legal illogicality in the law itself that can lead above all to confusion when interpreting in a specific case. In Article 288, second example, the right to prevent the purchase of shareholders in the estrangement of the company’s own actions is abolished in all non-public companies. which is not traded on the stock market. Depreciate existing shareholders' rights in all of Serbia's stock companies and retroactively just to avoid so-called. Complication when selling its own shares, the state must make a statement that it will not be used by the right barriers to purchase. So, we did one neck fracture exclusively for the sale of Telecom. Because of the way the sales of Telecom are planned, the DS is struggling. In light of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law, it is said that this problem can be overcome by amendments to the statutes in other companies. Again, Mr Sertić, I ask you – does this change the fact that this also raises other issues such as creating new costs for other companies when changing the statutes? We believe that this is the way of discrimination is being made against other companies, i.e. action societies. It's unserious that MPs vote on this at all. It is unserious that such an amendment and supplementation, a proposal, which I will repeat, is not in line with the European Directive. This law is not European. This proposal is not European. On the other hand, he is not under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. From the point of view of legal theory, it's very problematic, and that's what anyone who knows this matter. What is also very important is to abolish the right to prevent the purchase of its own actions. You say you're thinking, and in a few moments today you've repeated the future of Telecom, and I might agree with you, but on the other hand, you don't think about all the other stock companies. The confusion that has been made with these changes and supplements can further complicate the already complicated situation. I believe that, in line with the external-political moments that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recently and how it has been potential, it must not vote for such a law for a simple reason, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legislative system of the RS and, on the other hand, is the opposite of the EU Directive of 25.10.2012, and that at the moment when Serbia is struggling to open negotiations and when it comes to harmonising legal legislation with EU legislation, Serbia must not vote for such amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19719	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19720	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, Minister Sertic, I am very pleased that the amendment of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Development Fund and the other laws is passed. The previous speaker as an expert in the area of law said this is not a European law. I believe he is right because European law adopts the European Parliament. Serbian laws that are in line with European laws adopt our parliament, so it is impossible here to adopt European law per difolt. Mr. Bozovic, I think it's a small mistake for you as a lawyer, but to correct yourself. I'd like to rely primarily on the Law amending the Development Fund Act. These changes certainly make a difference because we will finally start to control the Development Fund, as funds are spent among other things, and all procedures will be completely transparent. The state will no longer be in a situation, as it was in previous years, that it provides guarantees for someone's behaviour in the Development Fund in the past ten years giving loans without any basis to those who have destroyed the Serbian economy, to those who have done nothing good to the citizens of RS, and today it has fallen upon us to pay back these debts and to pay out of our own resources, all RS citizens for missed investments that have brought nothing good to Serbian citizens except individuals who may have been close to one party from which the previous speaker comes. If we look at all the facts, the Law amending the Development Fund Act, I think we heard here and from the opposition MPs that they are ready in some form to support it, Mr. Chairman. The only problem is whether the consent to support the law will be given to the shadow president. Because if we have seen in the past how it has been treated with the Vojvodina Development Fund, how this fund has been robbed, empty, and has done nothing good for a young man in Vojvodina, for a pensioner in Vojvodina, for a working man in the AP Vojvodina, I think the President of the Shadow Government and his shadow cabinet will not give consent that their MPs, who are also here in the shadows, will support such a law amending the law. I think this is another way to show that the path of reform conducted by Aleksandar Vukic is not only on paper, that what Aleksandar Vukic is doing is certainly something that is transparent, public and accessible to all citizens of Serbia. This was not a practice from 2000 until 2013, but circumstances changed. I believe that, in accordance with the 2015 Budget Law, which plans to save, the reduction of deficits, which plans to halt public debt growth, we need to adopt one law that will be compatible with that law when we talk about the 2015 budget and that we behave rationally, domestically, that everything is open and that the public can see how the funds are spent. Also, I am sorry that the president of the city committee of a party who had the honour of explaining earlier all the criticisms that are not based on arguments, the City Committee of Belgrade, did not propose either from the Fund for Development, which will be fair, honest, deployed in a manner that is in line with the law, rather than according to what the President of the Shadow and his cabinet, which is also in the shadows, did not make any proposals on how to get the money into the local self-governments that have long been forgotten, if we are talking about the behaviour of the city committee president who just spoke. Local self-government, remember the situation of the Vozdovac municipality. Here, and today we have a situation, for example, in the Palilu municipality, where when we talk about development, we haven't heard any suggestions on how to get water and sewerage in the 21st century, which they deserve in the 21st century where technology has made so much progress. It didn't make sense, there was no hearing, because they had other jobs, they were giving funds to certain phantom firms at the expense of all citizens. Well, what do you care if someone has a sewer and a plumbing or still uses a septic pit six kilometers from downtown Belgrade, from the Republic Square? Now, that's a problem, which you only criticise in the difolt, and you don't give anything constructive to convince maybe someone to give you confidence in some of the next elections, whether they're local, city or republican. The Serbian Progressive Party will implement one responsible policy. I believe that this development fund, which will now be transparent, will help many local self-governments that must give an initiative on how to obtain funds, not only in local self-governments in terms of state administration, but also in small and medium-sized enterprises, to deal with the real economy in 2015, to open up small and medium-sized enterprises that employ five, 10 or 15 workers. The state has already made it possible in the previous seven months and certain reliefs that you very often forget when talking about businessmen, such as tax returns on each new employee. This is what it takes as an impulse for Serbia to finally move forward, to finally get Serbia out of a difficult situation where we have been brought in thanks to those who have announced the great world crisis as a great opportunity for Serbia, and it was actually only a chance for them, Mr. Chairman. I see you're looking at me, you might warn me, but I didn't say anything wrong. As far as this law is concerned, first of all, I think it will have an effect on small and medium-sized enterprises, craft chambers, to get back to the essence of problems and the essence of problems, and the problem comes from the local community, from the local community, from the municipalities to which this development impulse should be given. I'm convinced, and by working with the Minister of Economy, I've felt that he has a desire, he's willing to help us finally start to develop from the lowest instance of government, which is local communities, or municipalities. We think it's the key in the future to establishing a system that will solve our problem. When we talk about Telecom, we have heard here that a party, which has conducted thousands and thousands of privatisations from small, medium and large public enterprises, has been completely unsuccessful, not to use some term that may be a pair of ears to some people, and that is completely criminal, today only what is left but that you have not been able to sell because you have been ashamed to give something to indemnity, today accuses that it will be sold in one way or another when the real price of that public enterprise is much higher. If you ask me personally, I wouldn't want it to be sold either. But what's the problem? Can we follow the competition and the race on the big market, or will we be in a position to experience fate in two or three years as it was in "The Irons", with one of the responsible policies that you have led? So someone will say tomorrow – we have to fire so many people, or maybe the company will go bankrupt, go bankrupt, and everything we've seen for ten years in our country. This is a responsible policy, not to give something away, to give something at a real price. The only thing we have left, because you didn't have the time, the elections stopped you from giving it on a fully unfavourable scale, is trying to sell it for the highest possible price, unless we do it and we're not going to do it, and we're going to be competitive, we have a professional management that will bring profits, which will bring taxes to the state, which will preserve workers and what's important, is the responsible policy that will be implemented by the government of Alexander Vukic. You obviously don't recognize that language. Our idea is to continue through these laws through these changes through reforms. I believe that such a policy has come to an understanding of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am proud that when we talk about the Development Fund, when we talk about the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, when we talk about all the ministries, yesterday I was in Kosovo and Metohija where we heard determination, confidence that the government of the Republic of Serbia will help our people living in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. It is the impulse of a responsible policy, a prime minister who has the courage to go where it is most difficult, to say words that are peaceful, but we are proud to keep our dignity in Kosovo and Metohija and we want to fight economically, we want to fight for knowledge, for old age and for what might bring us in ten or 15 years a better situation for our citizens and for our country. We'll back it up. This is what I want to conclude, that the Serbian Progressive Party will support a set of these laws that will certainly help us continue on that path, through the development launched by Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19721	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, on the agenda between the Law on Business Society, we also have a proposal for a law on confirming the loan agreement for the second-stage credit to the privileged buyer of the Kostolac project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Bank. What's interesting about that loan agreement? First, this is the second project, and I'd like to say something about the first project that's covered here. It is worth $293m and refers to the revitalisation of the system "Kostolac B1 and B2". The projected power during the construction of that thermopower plant was 350 megawatts. However, due to the various technical problems they had, the average production in Bones B1 and B2 was about 245 megawatts, which means that of that projected force as it was was was less than about 100 megawatts of hours, i.e. one third of that projected capacity. The project to revitalise "Kostolac B1 and B2" is now in the final phase. One block in "The Bones" is already running. After that revitalisation, the capacity of the electricity that was provided for is 350 megawatts and in a very stable supply of electricity. On 29 December 2014, studies and alignment began around the second block of thermal power plants and kopete “Kostolac”. These days, by the end of this week, the bloc is expected to start delivering Serbia's electricity to 350 megawatts, the planned, installed force, for the first time since the thermal power plant was built. However, since there is an obvious need of the Republic of Serbia for energy stability and reduction, depending on imports, a second phase project has been entered. The second phase involves building a brand-new thermal power plant, also installed 350 megawatts. Since studies have come to the conclusion that there are sufficient coal reserves to build such an energy plant on the wooden surface, which works in Kostolc, it has also begun with its realization. The total value of the investment is $715 million, of which the loan we take from the Chinese is $608 million. The payment deadline is 20 years, seven years is the grace period of the principal's payment. What can be said about the new thermal power plant itself? I can say that all those agreements and agreements reached with the Chinese partner mean that we will get an energy system that at the moment, when it comes to protecting the environment and protecting the health of citizens living there, all EU directives are respected, and not only those that are now in force, but all of them, and those who will be in place, in order to bring them into line with other energy facilities when this thermal power plant starts working. I can say that so far it is the only energy facility of such capacity and the kind of power generation in Europe, which meets all the conditions envisaged in terms of environmental protection. It can also be said that the projected work on the annual level of the energy block is eight thousand hours a year, and that therefore the standards set by our representatives and the ministries and the electricity industry, the criteria for building this thermal power plant are very high, both in terms of deadlines and quality. The contractors are therefore intended to use foams if they are late to build the facility, and if there is a deviation from the given parameters, they also have to pay for the pens, with that if the projected force for seven megawatts is withdrawn, such an object will technically not be accepted and our obligations to the incredit no longer exist. The net profit that the electricity industry will have to exploit this thermal power plant ranges from $12 million and $400,000 to $47 million over the course of one year. The return on investment, i.e. the cost-effectiveness of investment, is at a level of 17 years. I can also say that despite the high standards set before the designer and contractors, the thermal power plant will cost about $2m per megawatt and $300,000, and the current price on EU territory is moving around $2m. When one of these thermal power plants is taken into account, of course local self-government will benefit from it, and especially the town of Pogorec and the town municipality of Kostolac. In the beginning of the bloc's exploitation, their revenues will increase by about 200 million dinars per year. It will also affect the unemployment rate, i.e. it will reduce the start of the operation of that thermal power plant. Some 260 new jobs are planned for the thermal power plant itself, but since coal production has to rise nine million tonnes to 12, approximately the same in that mining area, it means, on surface spears, so that the number of new jobs by releasing this power block into the plant will increase by about 500, which is certainly significant for the development of the Branič district itself. What should be pointed out is that the thermal power plant should start working in 2019, and in 2020 to enter full, projected capacity. Until that time, the Republic of Serbia has a obligation to pay only interest for this loan it raises. At the start of the thermo power plant, it starts to create a new value, a new profit, and therefore, in a certain way, it starts to pay itself off. What should also be pointed out is that it ends in 2052, how much life span of such a thermal power plant has been projected, with all the energy blocks in the Kostolac thermal power plants, and then their resources stop, so at the same time we're going to have a situation that both surface spears and thermal power plants in one year, so to speak, end their life span. Certainly, if you look at the conditions under which the Republic of Serbia is due, I do not believe that anyone today under any other circumstances can raise one such favourable loan, it is at 2.5% interest level on an annual basis, and it is known that we have borrowed even when the project loans, such as this, are at a level of five, seven, nine, and even 12%, especially during the times of the former regime, which now worry about what is with our public debt. As you can see, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by its prime minister, no longer wants business moves aimed at buying votes, which were aimed at amortising the results of a poor government, to turn to citizens. From now on, in addition to the stabilisation and sustainability of its public debt, the Republic of Serbia will only be in debt due to project loans or the repayment of loans for which this government has not proposed, not in debt to the state, and thus we give one stability and sustainability to our financial public debt. In any case, the Republic of Serbia should have its own economic development. With one such move, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is encouraging the economic development of our industry itself, for the biggest reason, because whoever you want to bring in an investor expects it to have a stable supply of energy, so that it can achieve its production processes at that level as planned and as it expects from a single state. Of course, it's also important, I don't believe that with one of these blocks, we're going to achieve being large exporters of electricity, especially in the winter period, but it certainly reduces the dependence of our electricity industry on imports of electricity from abroad. We also influence our foreign trade, which certainly contributes to the adoption of such a bill by the National Assembly. There's no doubt about it for us from the SNS at all. For this law we will vote, I just want to thank everyone who participated, regardless of which political parties, are in the adoption of this law, the opening of a new thermoelectric capacity that has not been opened in Serbia in the last 25 years, perhaps several years, and each of them who participated in all this has the right to be satisfied because they have done something good for their country. A little bit of that and I envy it, but it's our right for an MP to do something for our country and vote in the voting day for one of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19723	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19724	Thank you. Respected ministers, respected colleagues, today's debate on one significant set of laws, three draft laws that are not large at first sight, but are of great importance at this time for both the energy system of Serbia and for the economy, bearing in mind that the Bill on Amendments and Complementars of the Law on Business Companies and the Amendments of the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia certainly has an impact on business, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, one law, or a proposal, and the second one certainly on the business of Telekom Serbia itself, which at this point certainly has a very big impact on the economy and not only on business and business as businesses, and the success of citizens who are essentially and the greatest shareholders and owners of Telekom Serbia itself. I will remind that Telekom Srbija, once again for those who did not understand, 58% is the owner of the state, 7% are employees and former employees, 15% is the property of Serbian citizens and 20% is the owner of Telekom Srbija. Basically, for those who do not know it, in 2012, a buy-out contract was signed where Telekom Serbia bought 20% of the ownership of Telekom from the Greek company OTE and indeed the amount of very respectable 380m euros, which was paid off in 2013 and 2014 and as someone who has been working in Telekom Serbia for 24 years, I can say that in addition to this really significant success buy-out in such business years 20% of shares, separate 380m euros, and only by Telekom Serbia, I repeat, Telekom Serbia bought 20% of the shares. Indeed, the great success of management and the claims made by individual opposition MPs is that management is not high quality, it does not stand, on the contrary, in the conditions of strong competition, competition where we have one Telenor, on the one hand and VIP, on the other hand strong European, or global telecommunications system operators, and besides, Telekom Serbia, thanks primarily to quality people who work, i.e. human resources, quality management, manages to work positively in one strong, really strong competition, manages to save positive business trends to buy out part of the actions, to remind me in the previous period that we have managed to buy Telekom Republika Srpska, that we have indeed had a strong and serious success in Montenegro as well. They repeat once again, there is no dispute over the management of Telekom. What's very important is that this year, which has been extremely difficult, we're going out with serious business success. There is no suggestion that the 20% that Telekom Srbija's ownership of A.D. was to be sold under the applicable Business Society Act. I am also sure that this will prove in the next period that the negotiating position of the state, or negotiators that are being negotiated, because at the moment we do not have a decision to sell to Telekom or not, the state has decided to hire a privatisation adviser who will propose both state and ministry and government and, of course, the management of Telekom model to make the best results for its own business, i.e. the best results for its citizens. Believe me, as the name says, the owners of Telekom Srbija are what are directly, which indirectly through actions is citizens and all that is done to the remarks of counterpart Batic, who as important as it is to debate companies and Telekom Srbija, shows that after what she had to say and to object to this proposal, she has not remained to discuss whether it is good or not, to listen to the arguments of the other party, that she is simply in line with the Constitution, because everything that protects citizens' interests, and in this case is the interest of citizens and the interest of Telekom Serbia's A.D. certainly in accordance with the Constitution. I don't see a reason at all, and here's a fellow there waving a finger that's not true, but definitely everything that protects citizens, it's certainly consistent with the Constitution, and it's just like that. I'm glad someone's laughing there, but it's not funny, it's sad that you're simply contesting something that's not to argue with. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I am not a colleague there. Yes, at this point they're across the street. I don't want to humiliate my colleagues in this context, I apologize, but it's not nice to laugh, I don't laugh at you, so I don't think this topic is funny and it's not nice to laugh at Telekom Serbia as one of the companies that is really the most socialist and someone mentioned the infrastructure and signal and services of Telekom Srbija and believe that only Telekom Serbia in this form certainly thinks about people in Love and people in Nis and people in Kosovo and the people in Subotica, believe everyone in Serbia. Here, at this point in Krupnje is about the reconstruction of a network that has been completely destroyed as a result of the flood and trust the investment of 100 million dinars only to change underground and air installations that are in the area of Krupnja and which can be used by other operators and VIPs and Telenor, and certainly what is important is that Telekom will not give up working in the interests of citizens. Whether or not there will be sales, you will show yourself in the next period, of course in agreement with the privatisation advisors, but I will repeat once again, Telekom's interest is in fact the interest of all citizens, and that's just the way it is. Whether someone likes it or not, that's another question. What's more important to say is that this amendment to the Development Fund Act is at first sight small changes, but they are essential because they reduce and break deadlines and increase the responsibility of decision-makers. What will be certain in the coming period when it comes to the Serbian Development Fund and what will happen is that, here I also insist as a member of the ruling coalition, that every loan, each investment, be transparent and subject to control and criticism, first and foremost, of Parliament, and in the eyes of every citizen, because the simple Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia must act as a Fund for the Development of the Republic, and not as a fund for the grant of funds, because if we look at the history of the Fund, we will easily determine which way and with which guarantees it has received loans and how long the work and such Fund has led us to. We simply won't, and we don't have a chance to ruin what's somehow managed to separate for development aid. All funds that appear in the Fund must be clearly and precisely targeted at those positions, in particular to devasted municipalities and municipalities where this assistance is most needed. Of course, this third draft loan law certainly for every support, a project that began in 2010. Of course, everything that's right, and in this case it's Kostolac, it has to be supported, and in this whole set of laws there's no room for any changes, so the SNS will, of course, support all these bill proposals, because they're in the interest of citizens. Of course, I call upon all those who recognize the citizens' interest in these proposals and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19725	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19726	The respected chairman-in-Office of the generals, gentlemen of the Ministers, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, here today are two draft laws, a bill on business societies and a Fund for the Development and Confirmation of a Treaty. I have no intention of talking about the proposals of two of these laws, because I believe they are extremely well-established, they have their source in both the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015 and in the exposé of the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, but let me say about the contract. And this contract, which we are confirming today, has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, but just to remind you that, gentlemen of the MPs, because we often know that we too, but this to remind and the citizens of Serbia, this exposé of Mr. Vukic, the Prime Minister, who submitted to us here to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 17 April 2014, is the most comprehensive, most thorough and concrete exposé of all the previous 72 Prime Ministers, here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the time of the first Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic, from 1805 to today. This is for the sake of knowledge and behavior, and let's not forget. The honourable MPs, gentlemen of the ministers, on page 28 of the exposé, says the government will advocate to, quote, ensure Serbia's energy stability and security, i.e. enough energy. Here's what the Prime Minister promised in his exposé. It's this contract in one part that meets that obligation. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, so does our Prime Minister and Government in general and the Serbian Progressive Party -- written in exposé, accomplished. The strategy of development, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, modern states or these geopolitical strategic evaluations identify three key resources: 1) energy; 2) food and 3) water. I have no intention of talking about water, and I have no intention of talking about food, because it certainly is better than I, more professionally, more comprehensively, knows Mr. Marijan Rističević, the MP, because he would also be angry and stripping him, what our people say, capu in that, or perhaps the other farmer in this assembly, who is known for saying to the chairman, the vice president that he is cattle and that he has molded the vine on grass and damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 503 thousand euros. Let me get back to this contract. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the sufficient amount of energy represents the primary resource, and it also represents the provision of sufficient amounts of other two resources, both water and food. In view of that, it is a clear sign and importance of energy in preserving the long-term national security of our country of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we can freely withdraw the parallel between national and energy security, because without energy security there is no word about the national security of the Republic of Serbia. Our Serbian, and world-class Nikola Tesla, the creator of modern electricity, once said: "The development and wealth of one city, the success of one nation, the progress of the entire human race are strictly defined by energy available for use." That's why it's very good, gentlemen of the Ministers, that this contract is here today before us, the MPs, and that the Block B1 was restored in Kostolc, which has been on probation for seven days, and since yesterday, as far as I have information, it's again producing electricity. The refurbished drive will enter into Serbia's energy system 350 megawatts of electricity after being on the crawl for ten months, which is why it has not worked for our well-known reasons. This is one of the blocks that are modernised from a Chinese loan, and our country needs to bring security to the supply of kilowatts. Having successfully completed the remont, all four blocks of the Kostolac A and Kostolac B thermal power plant are now in operation, a total of 1,120 megawatts, which produce a fifth of the electricity that the Republic of Serbia has. The block returns with full power, ladies and gentlemen, but with an extended working century. Remont and the works cost, as you know, 110m dollars, provided as part of the first phase of Serbia's credit arrangement with the Republic of China, which includes the already completed Block B remont, the construction of a new suspect system, a port on the Danube, an industrial track. Respected citizens of Serbia, respected MPs, compared to letting in the work of the vitalized B1 Block, the government of the Republic of Serbia a few days ago, believe it or not, ensured the start of preparatory work on the construction of a new B3 thermopower plant in Kostolc, which has not been done in the past 25 years. Dear citizens of Serbia, this is good news for you. Dear People's MPs, this is good news for all of us, and I think there's a reason to mark it in some way. It is therefore good that this credit agreement for the privileged buyer for phase II of the Kostolac B package is now on the agenda of this National Assembly. After remonting at Block B1, employed by 600 workers from the People's Republic of China and 400 from the domestic companies of this plant, with power as already restored B2. Its production is 8.5 million kilowatts of electricity in one day, and the working century, which is very important, has been extended for another 20 years. I have no further intention of burdening you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, or the citizens of Serbia. I only call on you in the day to vote, especially from the opposition benches, to give your vote for these two draft laws for this contract, because that is how you will at least contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which our Prime Minister so warmly advocated, and assisted by the president of the state, Mr Nikolic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19727	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19728	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I would like to be a MP from the SNS list, and as an MP of the United Peasant Party from Svrlig, I will always say that because I want to hear about Svrlig and all small municipalities, and I will talk about amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. As the Fund was formed to support the economy of the Republic of Serbia and small businesses, it did not produce any results in the previous period until 2012. I can remind you that from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, 92 billion dinars were distributed from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia to economic operators from 2007 to 2013. These were meant to provide better conditions for innovation, make it easier for economic operators to work, employ people and make them able to live, and economic operators to expand their production and to have places to export as well. It was quite the opposite in that period until 2012, because then the funds were received from the Fund, and they were given to people who had companies, they were engaged in trade, and they were working on imports. In this way, the real Development Fund did not deliver the right result, these funds from the Development Fund did not produce the right result. The economic operators that received funds during the period from 2007 to 2012, had the possibility, these small entrepreneurs, to work and to improve their conditions of commitment through certain start-ups. In the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, one of the principles was even regional development, where certain start-up credits were sought, and I will say a little more about these loans because I come from a small municipality, which is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, which is the fourth group of underdevelopment and which is devastated. In the small municipality in the previous period, hundreds of millions of dinars from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia came from 2007 to 2013. Most of these funds were taken by the people, the economic operators, who used these assets in the best way. They invested building facilities, halls, hiring people, getting machines and working on export. We also have an example, in the previous period, of Minister Sertic, where we had talks with the businessmen together, and where we visited together a firm that is just, you could say, an example firm. It is the Trilord company, which is precisely from the funds of the Development Fund, from the SIEPA funds and other funds had the opportunity to obtain it and as such employed close to 70 people in our municipality. It means a lot to a small municipality like Srlig. We've had cases like this before. For example, the company "Cameléon", which received funds from the Development Fund, the company "Status", "Jeligor", "MIN DIV", and other firms that used these funds in the best way. There are some bad things. This is what I'm talking about, I'm talking about Srlig, and this applies to other small municipalities, and also to larger cities, how funds have been spent. We had companies that were getting funding from the Development Fund, but on the small municipality of Svrljig, because it had the best conditions, 1% interest, mortgage dinar, much better conditions than the commercial banks. That's why many companies, which I can say, were playback companies, which were somewhere around Belgrade, and there they reported to us some office and from the Development Fund. Those weren't small funds. That was 25-30 million dinars, 50 million dinars. The funds have neither been recovered and thus the Republic of Serbia's budget has been damaged. In this way, the municipality of Svrljig and other small municipalities in our Serbia are damaged, because when it is shown, it is seen that there are hundreds of millions of dinars invested in the municipality, and the result is not seen, there are no new jobs, there are no exports, there are no new economic operators, so that when someone comes and sees how much of the Svrljig municipality's funds, and those funds have taken some of the larger centres that had someone in the Development Fund and you from the Development Fund have helped them maybe even split the money. We are the witnesses of how it was done by 2012, when many procedures are now being done, where the competent authorities do so. I think it was really bad and it wasn't done well. We have another example, over the beginning of a credit app, where individuals from one small municipality, I can say Svrlig, I can say other municipalities around, that they were getting funds. The majority of people who received these funds from the start-up ap credit were used in the best way. There were examples that these funds were received by individuals who were alcoholics, gamblers and those people had someone at the Development Fund, some perhaps a clerk, who helped them get the funds, and in the meantime, the Municipality of Srljig and the police informed them that it was 2010, the Development Fund, the development fund, responsible for the Development Fund that this and this person could not repay the loan and that they were not given to that man. The Fund answered, and we have evidence in writing, that it will be done, that it satisfies. The man has received funds and normal, these funds have not been returned to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the Development Fund. As a result, such people were not meant to be given such funds and were not given what they are, which is to employ new people. One more thing that matters, how it was done in that period. Srljig municipality is like a local self-government together, all SNS and the United Peasants' Party, we formed a survey committee because we wanted to check all the funds that came from the Republic of Serbia's budget, whether it was from the Development Fund, whether it was from the SIEPA, whether it was funding from the National Employment Service. The Committee of Auditors has done its part of the work within its responsibilities, and all these results have been handed over to the competent authorities, or to all those who have been relevant to it. I can say that the results, as I mentioned earlier, from the Development Fund and the funds that came to Srlig, and in other small municipalities, have produced results in a number of these companies that are now hiring people there. Not to say again, it's a great honor for those people who have received funds from the Fund for Development, who have employed people, invested in new production and are working further on investment. I would now call first on Minister Sertic and his cabinet colleagues to invest all together as MPs and local self-government, to all work on helping small poor municipalities, such as the Srlig municipality, to invest in these municipalities, to set up funds in these municipalities through the Fund for Development with favourable interest, as it has been so far and that people who are already working can continue to employ people, because that is the only way we can save these small municipalities and in these municipalities can live and have a future. Another thing that I think is good under this bill is that we said in the 2015 budget – no more borrowing, in this part and the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia will no longer be able to guarantee Serbia for those funds that the Development Fund owes. I would also like to say that, I am the president of the United Peasants' Party and I think that the Development Fund needs to find an opportunity to help farmers' cooperatives, so that they can get funds through these cooperatives. We all know, that's what I'm talking about and everybody's saying, and our Prime Minister Mr. Vukic is talking about, that agriculture is a great resource and a chance to develop our Serbia. Through such favourable loans, such as the Development Fund for economic development can also help agricultural cooperatives to invest in equipment, in all that is necessary for the development of agriculture. Be assured that such funds will return safely, because our farmer is disciplined and cooperatives will have the opportunity to hire new people and these people will stay in villages, where they will feed families. That way we'll save our villages from shutting down. Once again, I fully support as a folk MP in front of the United Peasant Party at the SNS Club all measures of our government and our prime minister, because I think it is the only right way to get out of this situation as it was until 2012. As a National MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, I will vote for all these bill proposals because I am sure this will be the only chance and only chance to help our economy and all citizens of our Serbia and those living in the country and from the villages and those living in the city. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19729	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19730	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised to hear that one of the MPs from one of the ruling parties here, in this case from the Progressive Party, will say without question that they will vote in favour of the draft laws on the agenda at our session, the highest representative body, our National Assembly today. I am surprised, gentlemen, because I think we have very bad bill proposals and I will try, above all, to focus on certain issues, comments and comments to Mr Sertic, who defends two proposals from three, which we are discussing today. First of all, Mr Sertic, the government has proposed that an amendment to the Business Society Act be discussed by an urgent procedure. Mr. Sertic, I have to ask you-- is it possible we didn't learn anything from last year's experience? Last year, gentlemen, we discussed here the proposals of the emergency law, we adopted here in early December the Law on Planning and Construction of His Change, after 20 days, Mr Sertic, we had to change what we had adopted 20 days earlier. Then, honored gentlemen, Mr. Sertic, here we discussed laws concerning public notebooks, notaries, we changed one and the same twice, and we will have to again for the third time, Mr. Sertic, probably here by the end of January. Mr. Sertic, here you are sitting Mr. Antic, who, I mean, is "excuse me", most used in our debate at the end of December when we also put a grudge on him in the way he applied when he came to defend his proposal on energy here with 434 members, gentlemen. Mr. Sertich, we're learning from an experience. We don't have to pass laws on this kind of procedure. That's one remark. The other thing, by reading the content of the proposed amendments, by reading the reasons for law-making, one can conclude, and I think, very precisely, very conveniently here and this morning speaking to the MP, Olgica Batic, to amend the law regarding a business subject. Here I am now taking the reason for the law, the first paragraph of Telecom Serbia, the second paragraph of Telecom Serbia, the third paragraph of Telecom Serbia, the last paragraph of Telecom Serbia. Dear gentlemen, I ask you to imagine this, and so should you, Mr Sertic -- should the laws serve to concern a business society? That's a terrible insult. There is, dear gentlemen, a principle that applies in every country based on the rule of law, which is the principle that we must have a secure community of law. What would that look like, gentlemen, if we had to discuss and adopt a special law for every economic operator here? That would mean, Mr. Sertice, we're getting out of the rule of law. If it comes out of the rule of law, and this is exactly what the proposal is doing, then it means, gentlemen, that the government is jumping off the European track. This, Mr Sertić, and the honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not a European path, not even in a formal sense. This, Mr. Sertice, is how I understand the anti-European pathway, and I think we should stand up to it here. Third thing, if we focus a little now on this second bill of law that you're defending. For example, Article 3 of this draft law amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, says – the Fund for its obligations corresponds to its assets. Mr. Sertich, can you tell us what the Fund's assets are? Can you tell us here what kind of property this Fund can match? For example, article 10 says – the Fund's work programme contains purpose, height, etc., but is deleted this "annually". I am asking, dear Mr. Sertic, why is this "annual" deleted, why is this fence deleted until December 31st, because I am concluding next – we are changing the law because someone has not done their job? If I add that opposite, the generality of the law, then I think, Mr Sertic, that absolutely creates a picture of that anti-European path and a path that directs us to the possibility of corruption, Mr Sertic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19731	The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19732	I'd just like a quick comment. In the course of the day, we spoke very well of the remarks that you have now made in your presentation. I agree that each of the MPs has the right to see the draft laws in their own way, but what you have mentioned is whether or not these laws are on the European path, first of all, the European path is seen according to the results of each of us, the members of the government, the Prime Minister and all the praises we receive for the reform moves, for the socially responsible policy, for the results of the work, I think they generate our relationship to European values and the decisions and results that we want to achieve in the next period. As for who was doing his job or not, I gave you a very argument that, from the moment I was taken over by the Ministry and from the moment I became president of the Management Board of the Development Fund, no credit was given, after a long period of time in which almost no credit was given from the Development Fund, we first launched processes and very clear plans how and how loans will be given, given without guarantee, did not go to any decision or company that could not return it. It is important for us to support the small and medium-sized enterprises sector with small interest rates, but all companies were obliged to deliver adequate guarantees. The Development Fund has done a great deal for the devastated areas, i.e. for areas that suffered major floods during May and June of the month. Almost a billion are separated from the portfolio of the Development Fund for these purposes. More than 300 million dinars have so far been granted at very favourable interest rates, under special conditions, under special low guarantees, to provide businesses, which have suffered great damage, to restore their production facilities, so that economic life in those communities can be initiated. We need the Development Fund, as an institute, to take care of the weakest and smallest. In that sense, I am very proud of the previous few months, of the results the Fund has given, and as far as the public's openness is concerned, we have talked about it here, I certainly advocate strict control, not only of the Development Fund, but of all the public institutions that should be in Serbia's service and in terms of better and better development of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19733	Thank you. You have no right to a replica. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Do I have the right to replica?]] (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Can I explain why I have the right to the replica? ) No need to explain. You have no right to a replica. You have received a very polite answer, no offenses, no misunderstandings, to your questions. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I think I have... Think about whether or not there is. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Madam Chairman, I will no doubt vote for this law, no matter what some of my colleagues say about the way they vote, almost never vote for their proposals. It happened that we were voting for their proposals, and they weren't in the session. So much for the way we vote. As far as the contract is concerned, I must say that I will support the creation of finally one power plant in Serbia, Kostolac, but I also have to advocate making another power plant. So, I'm going to talk about a power plant that is also to be made, which will not be from a state loan, which Chinese investors, as far as I know, were interested in, which is Colubara A. So it's a power plant that has all the transmission systems, which at the moment produces negligible amounts of energy, which has 180 million tons of coal around it, which can't use existing power plants, so the Chinese investor offered to process coal with a fluid boiler that doesn't have enough caloric value and to make new 300 megawatts. So, let Colubara A be some other power plant that this government is going to start and build. Given that there are already all the conditions for the transmission of electricity that would be produced, and this earlier, investment is more expensive because it is not about the borrowing of the country, but the same Chinese investor would buy so much electricity and heat for the industrial area of Uba, which he intends to build as far as I know, and the ministers will certainly escort me, that investment is somewhere in the first phase of about $1.2 billion, and since we don't have enough energy for some dynamic development, it would be necessary to build alongside this plant in Kostollac, make and power plant, modernize Kolubara A, and thus first take care of the environment by using coal dust and coal that can't be used in power plants, and even municipal waste that is from the industrial zone and possibly from Belgrade, and thus produce electricity, we create an industrial zone that will be supplied and will not be able to pay off the electricity there for long time. With that in mind, I support, of course, this first project, and I would like it even more if, according to the 2012 project, which exists for Colubara A, the implementation of Colubara A, so we will get new 300 MW of electricity, increase the social product not only by producing energy but also by producing machinery in the industrial zone, and the Chinese investor is also interested in buying IMT, DMB and Rakovica, where he would also use that electricity and thus pay off an investment that would certainly be productive in several species. I also have to say something about the Development Fund. So what I read and the data that I got, I'm sorry that my previous colleague came out, because there's data here during my fellow farmer's rule when he was prime minister. Interestingly, I can't be in front of a farmer at the Health Fund, but my fellow farmer who has the same professional gear was prime minister. During his reign, Sartide remained in debt to the Development Fund 2,615,845,527 dinars. So, when privatization for the Buddha why and bankruptcy, this debt to the Development Fund remained at this height. That was over 100 million marks back then. If we turn it into euro today, I believe that debt, what can sometimes be bought for 100 million marks, now we need 200 million euros. So it was left behind by this famous contract led by my fellow farmer at a time when he was lucky, and we unfortunately, that he was the prime minister of this country. I'm also going to say about the Development Fund that out of the 13,145 credits of 217 billion found is such that 60% of these loans will not be recovered. It wasn't the Development Fund, it was a steaming machine, it was a tycoon development fund, a tycoon yacht with foreign flags and local singers. From the opportunity I see the Development Fund that worked until 2012. The lack of the Fund for Development will, of course, be compensated from the budget. The funds were often intended for beginners from the so-called so-called. Undeveloped areas. My colleague Miletic talked about it. I, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, must also say that I find strange some names of the winner of the loan for undeveloped beginners, so I will read briefly who were the lucky winners. As on the lottery, you usually raise a loan, so the company goes bankrupt, or you find another firm so you never return it again, so the lucky winners were: Miskovic, Bogicevic, Vojin Lazarevic, Miodrag Kostic, Drakulić, Perčević, Vukadinović, Toplica Spasojevic, Borovic. So neither they look like beginners, nor do we find Belgrade as an undeveloped area, so that members of the former regime owe us an answer – on what basis did they treat these people's companies as beginners, them as beginners, "start ap" loans for undeveloped areas, because it is absolutely not clear? At the very least, I think it's about abuse. As for the funds, there is also a need to see that, besides these funds, there are other funds. The Vojvodina Development Plan, the Capital Investment Fund, and some of them owe us answers that they spent 20 million euros on some relatives' lines of funds, part of funds belonging to Vojvodina, so let's say for the construction of some strange media centres, instead of 20 million euros, that those funds were managed by the relatives of the president, the former regime's party, so those who formed the shadow government, the government in the shade, so those who say we'll find our place under the sun sitting under the shadow, in the shade, I don't believe that. They owe us, given that I got this data, they owe us an explanation why some extra facility at the Institute of Oncology in Sremska Kamenica, instead of 10 million with equipment, still unfinished construction of 5,000 squares cost 20 million, why is it that money managed by, say, the godfather of the DS, or the party of the former regime? Why was the construction of the Emergency Centre in Novi Sad, run by the former regime's party leader, twice as much money spent as the necessary ones? Why, say, 100,000 for a birth that costs 7,000 euros was paid 28,000 euros? Many answers are due to those of the former regime's party who have formed a shadow government even though they rule one-quarter of the territory, they're very much spending money from funds. So, I'm going to say that from 2000 to 2012 over two billion euros came out of the Development Fund. You could buy a million cows for that money. Here's Mr. Miletic to agree. There could have been 14 million sheep, could have been bought somewhere around 10 million pigs, and let's say they gave it to farmers who would have bought about a million cows, every year this country could have, if they had invested that way, meat and milk could have had two billion without processing. But the money from the Development Fund went to these peasants from the city, for these big beginners and artists who know better to spend money than peasants, to hide it wisely abroad, to drag it out and so pump it out of the country for 10 years over 50 billion dollars, and while our diaspora made a miserable effort to bring as much money as possible, the villagers to make as much money, they pumped funds from the Development Fund, carried it out, and thus robbed the country. For that money if we'd bought those cows, we'd have two billion each year, that if we'd processed, we'd have two billion more. If you take 10 to 12 years only in primary production, or only in livestock and milk production, you could have about 20 billion in 10 years. This means that the debt of this country would no longer exist, and if we had processed it, we certainly wouldn't have lost 400,000 jobs, if the money from the Fund had ended with millions and not with a millionaire, we wouldn't have debts now, and instead of 400,000 unemployed, I believe, those who had lost their jobs during the rule of the party of the former regime, I believe that at least 200,000 people would now remain in production, would be in the business chain. This is how we got the poor millions and the rich millionaires, and now these poor millionaires have to pay back millions of dollars in various ways from the budget. When we add this to Agrobank, the Vojvodina Development Bank, when we add that in the current commercial banks there are unpaid 360 billion, we will come up with that in the previous period, I will dare say, there was one joint democratic and criminal enterprise towards the civilian population and those who have formed a shadow government, I recommend that they form another shadow government very quickly, that this shadow government is called the government in the shadow of Vojvodina, so let them go and talk to the two governments in the shadows, so be it and let them rule one three, four terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19735	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19736	First of all, I would like to thank MPs Misa Petronijevic, Miletic, Mihajlovic, Marko Atlagic, Veroljub Arsic and finally Marijana Risticevic, for commenting with great attention and saying very nice words at the expense of both the Serbian Government and the Kostolac project – phase two. I repeat, I believe that today is an important day for Serbia and that this project is important for all citizens of Serbia and I believe that the words of people who have felt it further confirm it. That's what I was talking about in the opening statement. Serbia as a country that sees serious economic growth and development in the future must build new energy facilities and must build energy capacities that will monitor such growth and development. These 350 megawatts we're going to build in "Kostolic" as block B3 are just the first step. We in that strategy have a few more things to do. So, I repeat, from renewable energy sources over 1,000 megawatts for which this country gives incentives and which on the one hand are part of our energy needs, and on the other hand, part of our commitments to increase the percentage of renewable energy use in total consumption by 2020 from the current 21% to 27%. It's our obligation we agreed on, we signed it. On the other hand, I repeat, we are planning another number of major energy facilities, i.e. large investments from conventional energy visions. Here, above all, of course, we mean building new buildings in the thermossector, but based on new advanced technologies with all the licences that are acceptable by the EU and the energy community. I have mentioned some of these projects and they are something that the Serbian government and the ministry I run through working groups are currently working on defining this project and there are, above all, the Stavalj, the expansion of coal production, the construction of a new thermoblock and Kovin. On the other hand, counterpart Risticevic is absolutely right. We have other projects that can be extremely interesting and we have great interest, above all, in Chinese companies that are partly due to the truly top political relations that Serbia and China have, which they had in the previous period, but especially now that they have dimensioned themselves during the summit and during the visit of the Chinese Prime Minister and the talks that he had with our state leadership, above all, of course, Prime Minister Vukic. These relations gave one new energy for new interests, first of all, to Chinese companies around several projects. One of these projects is the one Mr. Risticevic was talking about and this is the "Colubar A" project. There is a great interest of Chinese companies in a partnership relationship that they would like to make with our electricity and Belgrade power plants related to the construction of a warm-distribute from Obrenovac to the "New Belgrade" Toplana, etc., etc. Of course, there is Bistrica, a reversible hydropower plant, there are also interests for the new block in Obrenovac. There is also interest in some activities related to ‘Gerdap 3’. Now we are as a state, a society in a situation that we can simply make an assessment of these investments that are of these investments to us the most economically profitable and trust me that without any doubt we will agree to all those investments that are in Serbia's interest and thus we will sort things out. Where Serbia's interest is very clearly defined and where we can identify it as a priority through the feasibility studio, we will do it as a priority. Let me finish this exposure. This project related to the "Kostolac", it is something that is now, if the Assembly gives support, it is something that moves into realisation immediately. We are already in the course of this year, that is, the first half of this year we plan to introduce a Chinese company and that this realization of this project begins. I, like you, Mr. Risticevic, hope and look forward to new projects, and I believe that this government and the ministry will go public very quickly with the already-rounded images of new energy projects to build new energy facilities, because I deeply believe that Serbia can only develop if it builds new energy facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19737	I thank Minister Antic. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19738	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Vice President, Honorable Vice-President, Honorable Minister Antić, I see that Mr Sertic has left the hall, honourable fellow MPs, today three legislative proposals are before us, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Business Companies, the Bill amending the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, and the law ratifying, i.e. the loan agreement with the Chinese Corporation, the Chinese Bank. I'll share my presentation in two. First, in this part, which is somewhat shorter, I will talk about this new responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although all three of these legislative proposals, each in their own way speak of the incompetence, intricacies of this government, its ministers and the consequences of such actions, i.e. failures, for the citizens of Serbia. I will start with the law, i.e. a loan agreement for the authorised buyer, which is concluded by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese export-export bank, which is charged by the Republic of Serbia with an additional 608m260m euros, i.e. with interest of 715m 600 000 euros, so Serbia will pay an interest of 108m US dollars under the contract. Mr. Antiću, you have, by all accounts, had some misunderstandings about this loan because I understood that the representative, or diplomatic representative of the country with which we signed the contract, had slammed your door. So it would be very good to hear what was slow and what was the problem and why didn't you allegedly want to sign this loan agreement? It is not disputed that the basis for this loan was created quite a long time ago, so in 2009, when a contract was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government, i.e. the People's Republic of China on mutual co-operation and that this contract is a fruit of the agreement. However, it is disputed, Mr Antic, that you and the state of Serbia, meanwhile, have brought into one impossible state, in which the state of Serbia is increasingly in debt each day. You have not talked too much about it and this contract is not in itself disputed, that it is concluded in another time and in another legal and economic and political context, Mr Antic. So in 2009, it was a second time. Meanwhile, you and your political partners from the Serbian Progressive Party are in charge of the new 7.5 billion euros, and this 700 million dollars of new debt is now a problem, as our debt will grow by only eight billion euros in three years, and as you continue to be in debt, it is likely that it will go beyond 10 billion debt only during your two and a half years of government. How do you repay yourself? You're in debt, Mr. Antiću, these are already numbers that are no longer unknown to the world's analysts who monitor world-level borrowing, and you owe 121 euros per second or a day of 10,368,000 euros. You owe 311,000,000 euros a month, Mr. Antic. At an annual level, Mr. Antico, you're in debt close to four billion. In that context, Mr. Antic, this contract is controversial, only in that context. It is not a questionable need to "Costoc" and to restore other thermal power plants and power facilities and expand their capacity, but it is controversial, Mr Antić, that you have committed 7.5 billion and you have invested that money in public consumption. You covered the bottomless pit because you don't have new investments, you don't have foreign investments, because there's no faith of foreign investors in your government. There's no faith for reasons I'm going to talk about later, which is how you make the laws. How do you bring, Mr. Sertic, the Company Act? Retroactively, beyond all civilized norms that apply in countries and Cornwall and Angolan law, I would say even in Sharia law. So these models don't exist. You, Mr Antic, were silent earlier when you thanked in line, since you probably have a new obligation today, I heard that from your MPs, too, that you thank Mr Vukic for his comprehensive policy that will bring the country to Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19739	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the topic. We've been listening to you insult the ministers and the government for seven minutes. Please go back to the subject and talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19740	Mr. Becic, please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19741	Please return to the topic. (Janko Vesenović, from town: I talk about the subject all the time. Eight minutes of talking and insulting ministers, insulting the Government, and not talking about the subject, do not talk about laws that are on the agenda. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19742	Mr. Becic, you're taking away the right opposition...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19743	Don't talk to me, talk about the law. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19744	I have to say that this law and these laws, no matter how much you don't allow me to explain in my own way why these laws are harmful, that this government is incompetent and that I'm going to say that this government is incompetent, that the ministers are incompetent...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19745	I will not allow you in this way to continue to destroy the dignity of the National Assembly. Either you talk about the law, or we move on to the next debater. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19746	In fact, the law owes the Republic of Serbia $700,000. This will only lead in this minute, in this day and these days to the new borrowing that this government and the previous government made, which is the borrowing of over eight billion euros. That is why these laws and this borrowing can only be observed in the context of the fact that already the total debt, I am talking about 11 months of 2014, over 69% of GDP. With this new debt, the total debt will exceed 70% of the total GDP. You, Mr. Sertic and Mr. Antic, are violating a law that limits the total amount for which Serbia can be in charge. Because of that, not only are you incompetent, but you're breaking the law. Mr Sertic, what have you done to enable these loans, for which Mr Antic, or the Serbian Government, will be in charge, to be returned? How did you help the small economy? How did you help small entrepreneurs? How did you help those who needed to fill the budget to repay these loans? Not at all. Yesterday I saw a statement from small employers in Novi Sad and Vojvodina. Thirty parafiscal duties, Mr. Sertic, they can't work. They were 10-15% extinguished at the end of last year by their companies or companies, and others intend to. What do you do to get these loans back? On the other hand, today we are talking about a law that should enable the sale of Telecom. You have proposed to amend the Business Society Act to enable the sale of Telecom. Gentlemen and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that you will be consistent and that you will not support this law, because only a few years ago have you advocated the sale of Telecom. Mr. Vukic said that the sale of Telecom can only be done by non-domestic and irresponsible authorities. That's a statement from B92 2010. Prime Minister Vukic further said that Telecom will only sell those who are incompetent and that he will never sell state gold, as he says only those who are homeless and irresponsible do so. Does this mean that the Prime Minister and you ministers behave without a host, as Mr. Vukic said, and as irresponsible? So, you're selling family gold, the last family gold, as he said in 2010. What changed in the meantime, except that you made an even bigger budget hole, which you make every day? So there's no assembly session where there's no law on borrowing. In that sense, it is a slightly irrelevant fact, Mr. Antic, that we are discussing this or that investment today, because the question is how do we repay these loans. On what basis will the state of Serbia provide, for the next three, five, ten years, funds to repay these loans? Based on what, Mr. Antic, if you know our GDP is falling, the number of employees is dropping, and the only one growing is Mr. Anticumu, the course of the euro, the dollar? I believe you've promised your colleagues in China and these days it's on the list and the Chinese currency, but it's just, unfortunately, Mr. Antic, that in the morning, when we look at it, you'd see that the dinar fell not only in relation to the dollar, not just in relation to the euro, but in relation to the Chinese currency. He falls every day. Export stagnating, you have no new investments, Mr. Antic, you have no new investors, everything you've done, or you've opened every factory or every bridge, has done that previous government where you participated, and it's very bad that you didn't react when one of the MPs called that job and the Government a criminal enterprise. You were Mr. Antic in that government. You have the highest continuity, your party, in that government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19747	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19748	I have to say, today I'm quite surprised by the appearance of the professor, the MP, but apparently this place carries this kind of tension that's particularly manifesting itself from him. But in my custom, I'm not going to politicize, we're going to deal with facts, and I really appreciate when we can do it with the opposition based on the fact that we're doing it. None of us had any objections, nor did he react nervously in any way when we discuss the arguments with Mr. Ciric. But there were no arguments here at all, this was one political tribune with many incorrect data, sir. One, the value of this contract is 715 million with a loan value of 608, and 107 is the participation of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the participation of the EPS so that it is not interest but our participation. (Janko Veselinović, from town: What is the interest? Take it and calculate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19749	Mr. Veselinović, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19750	I can't accept any assessment that this and the definition of this loan contract were about any incompetence of the government. Well, quite the opposite. Mr. Veselinović, this is phase two of the project. The first phase of the project and the contract made by the previous government in 2009 or 2010 in which the Socialist Party of Serbia certainly had no place as finance minister and did not bear the story of the loan agreement itself. So then the terms of the loan were far more unfavourable than these. Well, then the loan was on a 15-year maturity at 5 years grace period, we now managed to negotiate 20 years, payoffs, at 7 years grace period. Then the interest rate was 3%, now it's 2.5%. That's when the credit-processing funds were 0.75%, now they're 0.25%. This is proof that this government is more capable than this government, because it has provided better conditions for the realisation of this loan. When you talk about borrowing and with that stop, well, yeah, exactly what we're doing is the answer to your previous question. Well, we are largely returning the bad credits that were drawn after 2000 with high interest rates and most of these new debts are going right to the expense of getting those old ones back. Indeed, I don't want to compromise on that basis, but I have to say precisely because of that continuity that you were talking about, that I think this government is doing this economic development job in Serbia far better and more responsible than the one we were in. It's on one side. On the other hand, I think the estimates are that it's terrible that the dinar is losing its strength over the Chinese currency. These are inconclusive assessments or there is a complete lack of knowledge of general economic factors around the world. People, China is now the second world economy. Well, of course our currency can't compete with Chinese currency, because it's the second world economy right now. The first is the EU still. Okay, I apologize if she's first, then she's first. It's on one side. On the other hand, it's malicious to talk about how our GDP is going down, so the only reason why there's been a crash in GDP is because of the flood. I think it's one ominous piece of information. In essence, you know just how much we've had in coal and electricity production as a consequence of the flood. Well, people, we on May 27th or May 17th, from May 17th to May 27th was the worst with floods, we produced zero grams of coal in Colubara. Well, it's a tragedy for this country. You don't want to be tragic about anyone making political points. And today we've dressed up, although all the first forecasts have said that it'll take us about a year and a half, now we've come to only seven months later, we've succesively raised to 80,000 tons a day from Kolubara. Guys, we've really done an extraordinary job and I don't want the opposition to applaud us for it, but I can't accept that dose of malice, especially in those segments where we've given maximum results. At the very end, I expect in the next Assembly to talk about serious matters, not about speculation and incorrect newspaper articles. No one in this government has ever slammed a door or done that to me, the Chinese ambassador. I have an extremely friendly relationship with the Chinese ambassador and I am the national co-ordinator for co-operation with China in the China mechanism and Central Eastern Europe. The Chinese ambassador is our great friend who has made a huge contribution and great help to Serbia and the Serbian people in obtaining the summit, preparing and organising the summit. We had serious negotiations regarding all contracts, memos signed during the visit of Chinese Prime Minister Li Ketianga Belgrade, but these were indeed negotiations. I repeat, so we did not ensure that the conditions for this loan in 2014 were so much better than the terms of the 2010 or 2011 loan by giving it to us, gifting or falling from the sky. No, but because we negotiated, we had a firm position and sought out for Serbia and its citizens the best conditions and provided them. But I repeat, those were the negotiations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19751	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a minister in the government, Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19752	There was a question here of selling Telekom and setting up why we do it and in what way, why are the expectations that Telekom will achieve a better price. I've said it several times today, and I'll tell you, I'm sorry you haven't been to hear the explanations in what way and in what way. But this government has done as much as, perhaps, what Mr. Atlagic has mentioned since the beginning of work as he has said about the exposés of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, but so much praise for what we have received from the world's most significant institutions, from agencies that monitor the work and monitoring of every move because it is an interest to agree, not only with the provisions and status and EU standards, but with the world's business environment so that we have companies that can go out on the world market and compete at any moment. Even though people on the side praise us for something like that, I can't understand your story about how we're almost a gang of criminals who don't know what he's doing. The kind of words you use towards us as members of the government, I don't think it's correct at first. Secondly, we live in a country where there have never been more transparent and clear processes. When the economy was never a more important factor in everyday life and made it very ready and public in front of all Serbian citizens. The moves that are being made today have not been brought into Serbia for the past 30-40 years, and I am not talking about the promises of 2000, how we're going to give birth to the country, and we came by 2014, when we had to change the Labour Act and the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Construction, and we're returning the expensive loans that you've raised in 2008, and today you're talking about public debt and the problems that exist, and you're telling us that we're incompetent, and we're forming a story. You mention a little before small and medium-sized enterprises. What small and medium-sized enterprises did you take care of during the previous period? It wasn't this government that destroyed the entire system of functioning of the economy in the previous period in six months, but just the previous governments, and we're trying to get out of one complete mess today, in a complete economic bar, to get the piece back. So we got that three or four days ago, production started again at Simpa after months of stasis. We also returned “1. May" from Pirota, which began to work, nearly 300 workers began to work, precisely thanks to our efforts and negotiations that we have with both the Slovenian state and the people below. We're looking for every possible way and every good and correct solution to save every firm. We're talking about the Development Fund. Thanks to the Development Fund, some of these companies are operating today. Thanks to the Development Fund, we also have the opportunity to negotiate today on "Smederevo Irons" and try to do a good job, to save "The Iron", not only because of Smederov, not only because of 5,000 workers who are certainly a priority, but because of the overall economic life in Serbia. And the Development Fund also suffers the consequences of Agrobanks and Business Banks and the Vojvodina Development Fund, which has created its loans with the problems we have today and at this level of Serbia's Development Fund. If we talk about responsibility, there has never been a more responsible government in economic terms and in every aspect of the elements that join us, every day, a step towards the EU. If it is recognised by EU leaders and we receive daily commendation for that part, I do not understand your position and the individual MPs in which you call us ugly names and irresponsible people. I'd like you to give me one particular reason why we can talk like that. We are today from trying not to rush into the sale of Telecom in the most transparent and best way, but rather to open a public tender, which will be announced for the next two weeks, as a privatisation consultant, to see what smart people of the world class are going to suggest, in what way we go to the future with our company, which are models that would allow Serbia to develop and encourage the company, not to happen in three or four years if we have a reduction in business arrangements. Why was it asked at one point not to sell Telecom? To come to today's situation where we have Telecom, which is the owner of Republika Srpska, which also has its own ownership and operation and in Montenegro, therefore, to one regional player. Were there any different transactions during that period? Yes, it is. We have come today to be able to think seriously about the future of Telecom and to think about how to enter a strategic partnership or some kind of sales to make life possible. Of the funds that we get, both from Telecom Serbia and other privatisations, which unfortunately did not remain largely able to attract some large capital, because everything that was good, or was sold long ago, back in 2003, 2004 and 2005, without talking about what happened after that with a large number of privatised enterprises, what total chaos we have in agricultural combinations, what crime happens behind closed doors, etc. Part of these revenues we agreed with the IMF that it could go back to exactly expensive loans that have been raised since 2008 and so we say, which are directly in consumption, not in the function of state development and that other half to go into investment projects, such as highways, military industry, agriculture, that we do not have to continue to be in debt, but that we can from our own resources to make a distribution of participation in large projects. We're talking to big world names today in the right way. Today in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, a meeting was held with Tenis, who decided to start his company in Serbia, people have made a decision and we are entering the largest investment in agriculture, we can say, in the last 20 or 30 years. The largest European livestock company has decided to enter Serbia and build its plants here in Serbia. These are the elements that we talk about every day and every day we make results, and I don't want to hear about us in any way here as incompetent, as if someone who doesn't love their country and doesn't guard. What we are doing today with these amendments to the Business Society Act is exactly in the direction of safeguarding state property, i.e. preserving Telecom, so that we can talk in the right way. And we could say that 10% of the action we're going to divorce, the board of directors will make a decision just like we did before, 10% will be deployed and nobody gets anything. We'd have less capital. We'd have a problem if we wanted to make the same capital, that we had to get out of the unscheduled to transfer funds. So we're entering some balances that we're not responding to right now. Criticise a $700m investment, a development project that will repay loans on its own and employ us 500 seats in the next year, to open up to us who knows how many follow-up jobs, as we do today with "The Iron of Serbia", that we have almost 15 000 workers in the "Gelezzare" in the following jobs, which are opening jobs. These are the successes made by this government and the citizens of Serbia know it, and obviously they are not aware of the MPs sitting here with us and discussing the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19753	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word is Dr. Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19754	Dear Chairman, I will use my right to the replica, as the MP used offensive and inadequate qualifications, as well as the honourable Ministers, to quote concrete facts. So let's not forget slowly and quickly, because, if anything, the relevant institutions are all recording, history, the country's economic history, that we're not dealing with political history right now. So, I refer to the Institute for Market Research data, which says that Serbia's extreme growth in external debt was created precisely in the period during which economic resors were led by the staff of the former or current party to which the honourable MP belonged. So, period 2008 to 2012. When a decision on mass privatisation was made, foreign debt fell, I refer to the Institute for Market Research data. From 2001 to 2007, external debt fell from 10.3 to 6.3 billion euros, so that at the end of 2012, there would be an accelerated debt dynamic of as much as 12.2 billion euros from 2007 to 2012. So the share of the state in creating this debt from 2008 to 2012 increased from 30.9% to 49.9 percentage points. So, 19%. It is known who was then prime minister, who was minister of finance, who was minister of business. These were not MPs of the ruling coalition, or representatives of the now ruling coalition. I ask that we quote the exact data and refrain from the bad and the inadequate, not to call, insulting, qualified.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19755	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19756	Gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had just before attended a tirad, a well-trained song, with one flaw - which is not true. But she's been taught. However, this is not the first time, and it is not the last time unfortunately from the inexplicable, incompetent and incompetent Mr. Janko Veseinovic. This is exactly what I'm saying on purpose to show what it's like to wrap that verbal stone and what it's like to have that same verbal rock back and hit exactly who points it out and who says it. What unprofessional, incompetent and incompetent Janko Veselinović doesn't know, and that's what it is to roll credits and what it is to get credits... (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19757	Mr. Veselinović, don't throw it out of place. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Use the terms for which you have warned me. Mr. Veselinovic, I'll give you a warning. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19758	And what is it about when loans are received and taken under more favourable interest rates, because this government of the Republic of Serbia has made an agreement with the IMF, because in this way we have received this atest and this necessary seal that we are a stable country, a country that goes through a clear reform path and that the same loans that we receive under more favourable conditions would return those old loans that are incompetent, unprofessional and incompetent to the Government of Janko Veseinovica worked in the past and in charge of all citizens. I'm going to ask this through the incompetent, incompetent and unprofessional Janko Veselinović when his government took a 2.5% interest-a-year loan? They were taking loans at 6.7 and 8%. I was in the eighth session when such laws and loans were voted in the National Assembly. I would ask incompetent, incompetent and incompetent Janko Veselinovic when our public debt crossed the legal line of 45% of GDP? During the government supported by the incompetent, incompetent and unprofessional Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19759	Thank you. People's MP Janko Veselinović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19760	Mr. Chairman, I think your holding session is talking enough about...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19761	Mr. Veselinović, you have introduced the dictionary back half an hour. You have introduced this dictionary which you have spoken in the People's Assembly. Fifteen minutes you've insulted the government, the ministers, the prime minister, and now you're rebelling over one sentence. Mr. Veselinović, accept what you have introduced into this National Assembly in your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19762	Of course, I would not waste my time on any insults that the previous speaker had served, but I would just like to look back on what the two ministers said about what I had previously said. With no single word nor Mr. Antić nor Mr. Sertic denied what I said, nor the fact that you owe yourself in a second, in a minute and in a month, nor the total debt, nor the fact that you are leading the state into bankruptcy, nor did Mr. Sertic answer the question of what will make small and medium-sized enterprises in his New Sad, in my Novi Sad, in his Vojvodina, in my Vojvodina, in his Serbia, not to be put out of service in my Serbia, and this is because of the parafiscal duties you have given for these small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr. Antichu, don't replace the thesis. How can you say – the social gross product has fallen because of the floods, and then say – you have been in debt on higher interest? Mr Anticu, isn't it true that these interest rates were the product of the global economic crisis? Isn't that right now that money is cheaper at the world market, Mr. Antic? Isn't it true, Mr Antic, that the world market is now a dollar and a euro for borrowing something cheaper? There was a credit rating twice during your government. Mr. Sertic, being in government for four, five months doesn't say anything about the fact that this government, this coalition, has been in power for three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19763	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19764	It's the second time you've mentioned parafiscal intrusions and in general imposes on businesses and it turns out that we've created it in the last six months, and that's something that I and I, the first businessmen who came from the economy, have been talking about for years, a completely unconsistencies system in which everyone has done what they needed. We have a huge number of agencies, a huge number of intrusions, non-compliant laws. We have forest regulations that don't work for each other. We are now trying to make in this part of it as if there was a magic wand that we can solve and on the basis of it we try every day to make moves that would bring oxygen to our small and medium-sized enterprises in the short term so that we can get time in a process that lasts and can't be solved overnight, solve the big problems that we inherited from all the previous governments that function. We have adopted a strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and defined six pillars of development in the coming period. We've defined that we're going to start nearly 200,000 jobs in the next few years just on the basis of small companies. We're the ones who brought back the Development Fund to those who need it, which is small and medium-sized enterprises. For a month, I sat with more than 1,500 just those representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce at the beginning of the mandate to hear every detail of them. Each minister has received for himself a list of problems that he owes through the law and through what they do every day to get to know the problems and to highlight which part and how to solve exactly what we need to do, to make the right position of what these short-term commitments are, what it is that we can do in another period. The condition for the full recovery of the economy is the fiscal consolidation that has been done, just what the IMF and the World Bank have given us praise. The World Bank said yesterday that in 2016 we will have positive growth and accept that the floods this year took away one part of the social product, which would have been completely different, was positive if there hadn't been a flood, which we didn't affect. In order to have cheaper loans in commercial banks, in order to have the right picture of investment activities in Serbia, we need to be a serious state. You didn't make this country serious. We are, in the right way, through the economy, where one and one are two, trying to restore faith to every man worth being in a private business. You've shed 200,000 people from the private sector into the public sector to maintain political power. We now need to bring these people back, to those who have been deceived in a large number of cases, to return their desire and hope, to try with them all possible different ways of trying to bring back the people who burned themselves in private business to start over and to work again. We try to talk to businessmen every day, from prime ministers to all ministers. In every way possible, we encourage people to come and start new businesses. We opened the story exactly the same for both foreign and domestic companies. You have almost half today, half of the companies that are talking about incentives and investments in Serbia. One half is domestic investment, and the other half is foreign investment. So any rating of small and medium-sized enterprises I think you have the least right to talk about it. If anyone has destroyed the future of small and medium-sized enterprises here, it is a previous period of ten years, which after 2000, when we set out to hope that it would be better, we came to 2014 where we had to change laws that were elemental things, which should have been done long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19765	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19766	I'm really not a financial expert to know how they moved from Sundays to Sundays, from month to month to year credit rates and how interest rates were moving, but what's the fact, this credit and this financial line is the most favourable contract the Republic of Serbia has ever made. I repeat, for this reason I do not expect applause from the opposition, because it simply does not belong to the part of our political environment and culture, but I cannot accept the word criticism about this contract. People, 20 years due, seven years grace period, interest rate fixed 2.5% with all those other elements that are minimally related to credit management fees and the like. For the construction of the first energy facility to be completed, it will be almost 30 years from the last major energy facility, 350 new megawatts of hours of electricity and nearly three million tonnes of coal from the digging "Drmno". It's one pearl. We're making a new value for our children. The project will be paid back in 15 to 17 years and then our children and generations who come to enjoy absolute benefits and one big investment that we make for the future. I repeat, this project has passed all possible financial checks from a cost-effectiveness point of view and as an absolutely profitable project it has received both funding and a decision from our country that we need such a thing. I can't accept you calling this borrowing land, because this isn't borrowing land. This is a new investment for Serbia's future. I simply ask that we talk on the basis of serious arguments and in such a debate I expected that this project will be supported by all parliamentary groups, because part of the continuity of the policy that the previous government had, is improved by a new quality that came from the serious negotiations that we had in order to achieve more favourable conditions for financing the project itself. I want to believe that what you had was part of a good rating and ratings, so you had that need, and that in the voting day you would vote for this project. Well, your party has also installed, at least with one small icon, into a mosaic that will lead to the construction of this new energy facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19767	Thank you. The word has the head of the parliamentary group Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go. That's how we end up in a circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19768	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first time was a success, a fine education was a success. Two minutes, my colleague Vesenovic spoke nicely without using offensive expressions, so I made it to half. I'm not in that other half, and that's this professional, economic, financial part. What Mr. Vesenovic overlooked or did not want to see, that the good news thatFitch Ratings has improved Serbia's rating from B- to B+, with a stable adjudication. Is this a confirmation of the reform policy and policy course run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, it is. However, what Mr. Vesenovic does not want to understand, but well, I will repeat until he learns, which is a credit roll. What does it mean to roll a loan? These are new loans, but not new debts, because these credit lines, which are more favourable, precisely because of the more favourable credit arrangement and credit rating that we have as a state, because of the agreement with the IMF, which the government of Mr. Vesenovic has driven out of this country, we get more favourable loans, as Mr. Antic said, 2.5%, such as the credit for Kostolac B. In this way, those loans that are more favourable, we repay the old loans that were owed by Mr. Veseinovic's government. It's loans, but not new loans. It's the only thing we want to relax in the future that amounts as a state, as a budget we have to pay through loans and through interest. In 2008, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, 200m euros were set in the interest budget. In 2015, this year, only for the financing of interest loans, a billion and two hundred million euros, precisely because of such unfavourable loans, precisely because of such unfavourable interest rates, precisely because of such unfavourable ratings that we had as a state due to lack of courage, due to political cowardice, not to implement reforms. Now because of the courageous reform policy of this government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, his team in the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19769	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19770	... We also got a more favourable credit rating and more favourable interest rates, where we return the loans you owed, Mr. Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19771	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I think we should get back to the subject. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Veselinović, I think it's said enough. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I am mentioned. ) You can get right to the replica, because Mr. Babic mentioned your name and name, but I think we should end up with this circle of replicas, as we said. Please, if you insist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19772	I won't look back at Mr. Babic's exposure at all. It really doesn't deserve attention. I'll talk to the ministers about issues that might...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19773	Mr. Veselinović, like you, Mr. Babic, I'm closing this circle of replicas, you can't turn around. You've got a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure. Since you don't want to, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19774	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, I've graduated from law school, not economically, but I've read a lot about the economy. I haven't been able to hear this kind of ignorance for a long time and this kind of exposure from many MPs who oppose this. The elemental thing is to admit that someone's doing something better. We have now heard that money is supposed to be cheaper today because there is no economic crisis, so you can raise credit at lower interest rates, but in the period when they were in power, when it was not known what economic crisis. Just for information, today is a much worse situation because, let's not lie, God forbid, World War III is knocking on our door. Look how many hotspots you have in the world. Everything is unpredictable what's going to happen. Many economies fail. Some countries in the EU, which were extremely economically strong, are quite weak now. No one gives money just like that anymore. I couldn't figure out who's just giving it cheaper money now than in that period, but what do you do, you have some that claim that kind of thing. What I'm trying to say to the public is, someone's been in debt before to buy votes, that's the point, and they've been on interest even up to 9.5%. That was the whole point, they were buying votes, and we have to tell the citizens that, because it's the only truth. That's why we're returning a billion and 250 million euros today, only interest this year must be paid back because of these diabolical loans that were then raised. When we talk about the Development Fund, I have to admit, you remind me, Mr Sertic, I know you've been working on the economy for a long time, you've been in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, etc. We've had some kind of National Investment Plan in our time. I remember, we sold the "Mobtel" in our time as a state. Is that true? It's all gotten into this National Investment Plan once. We don't even know what happened to that money today. Where did the money from that "Mobtel" end? That's not a small amount. We sold an entire company. How she was taken from the Karic family and how it was all done, it doesn't matter, let some other organs determine, I think, of course, that it matters, but I care where that money is? We sold hundreds of companies in privatisation, no idea where that money went, it evaporated. I don't know how many billion euros of credit we've raised. No one knows where that money is, and plus we're in trouble. Unfortunately, so far, the Development Fund has served exclusively to finance party projects, to pay someone money in a campaign so that they can buy voters. That's what the Development Fund was for, especially this one in Vojvodina. It was pure crime that was what they were doing there, from alleged honey mills, which they opened up until I don't know what and then the money went up. You know who's been developing here. Borovica developed, so some characters developed, and accounts developed. It really was the Development Fund, but the Account Development Fund, where zeroes increased on someone's continent. We're all in charge today. We've come to the brink of destruction. Now what you are introducing here is something that is truly commendable, firstly, because this Development Fund, the Republic of Serbia no longer guarantees for it. He has to guarantee his assets, which means it has to be a big responsibility for whoever runs that Development Fund. He can't waste money like that anymore, and you can't take care of the money you gave someone else's spending. So you have to keep an eye on how that money is spent and whether they're going to pay back that money. We've had hundreds of such projects. Money's been given. You know, from that Development Fund, what have we developed today? I'd like someone to tell me. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm not familiar, maybe something's really developed somewhere. But what have we developed to this day? What kind of epochal project do we have from this Development Fund, and the money was thrown away, so much money went away? Someone's been pumping money out of the country pretty good. Otherwise, I'm a supporter of a development bank, if the state could establish. About this fund, I understand, it exists now, but I'm more of a supporter of a development bank. I don't know if that's gonna happen. Let the government decide. However, what you are doing now increases the responsibility of those who are leading the Fund and increases the responsibility of those who are getting the money to really spend that money on the project they applied for. It is something that is very commendable and the state of Serbia no longer guarantees, guarantees the Fund its assets. As far as the Business Society Act is concerned, we have now heard various things about Telecom. You know what, 2011 and 2015 are sky and country, about the development of telecommunications systems, technologies, etc. You know, every year you have incredible progress. Unfortunately, our Telecom, as it is today, and today it is because someone has hired party personnel and because it has completely destroyed it, I am not sure it can mate with competition in the future. Is it like this? I can't possibly just agree. So you'd have to fire at least a third of the workers from there, because, if we weren't lying, they'd be unnecessary and you'd have to invest a lot in technologies that I don't think this country has the resources. See today objectively how much "Telenor" has developed in us, see how much "Vip" has developed, and see how much SBB has developed especially in the offer of television programs, where you have an objective problem fighting with such competition, and I'm not sure that the state can bring it out. What is now being brought and if it enters the sales phase of Telecom, I am glad that it does not crash first. So, you're just saying nicely that you're going to ask that intellectuals and people of the profession give you models and solutions and see how you can get into a public private partnership, maybe that, I don't know, the state remains a majority owner, and that one part of the stock is sold, maybe sell everything. I'm not really that competent or professional either, but the fact is that we have to change something here, because this situation is unsustainable. I wish our Telecom was like "Telenor" Norway, but unfortunately, we weren't involved in the development of our telecommunications company, but we were destroying it by irrational employment, sharing wages to the unconscious, raising credits, financing all kinds of nonsense about some sports clubs, where the money was thrown into the well. We heard here earlier from an MP that today, if so, we're filling, as he said, holes without a bottom. I ask only: Who created these holes without a bottom? Well, this government didn't create that bottomless hole. This government didn't create these enterprises in restructuring, so today you have so many, your head pains you can't solve it, Mr. Sertić, and the question of whether you'll be able to solve it all, because the IMF, excuse me, requires it to be done and logically, because they gave us, after all, that loan that we use conditionally, but we have to solve some problems. It's good for us to finally come to our senses, that somewhere we have to solve something, and that we can't throw any more money into the bottomless holes that someone else created. So, I have to admit, I'm shocked by this and that someone doesn't want to vote for the loan we're taking, which is 2.5%, with a grace period of seven years from a state that's in incredible technological progress, which, if it isn't already, may be where I don't agree with Mr. Antic, become the world's first economy. You know, China is a country in incredible progress. There was a Chinese ambassador here recently. I'm very proud to be a member of the group of friendships with China. I had a chance to hear some things about the summit that happened here. I am very happy that the People's Republic of China has chosen Belgrade as the centre of its investment in Europe and the Balkans. It's a big deal for Serbia. You know, good news in Serbia isn't good news. It's only important for you here to bring out an affair in the newspaper, invented, to undermine the system, if necessary, to place it on the front pages of all sorts of nonsense, but when it should be said that China has chosen Belgrade as the center of its investment and that it will be the center of the Chinese economy in Europe, then it's not news. Like the news and what Mr. Babic just said, our credit rating with B minus came to B plus. I even heard one argument from, the other day, a top economist, a self-proclaimed expert, who says -- well, that's what they told us, that we now have a better credit rating, so they can owe us more. That's totally amazing. If a credit rating had accidentally fallen, they would have said – see, your economy is falling, you know nothing, etc. Now that it's on B plus, then it says -- that's what they told you so you could borrow more. No matter what you do here, it's no good. If you were to allow us to have golden handles on the door, to have honey and milk flowing, someone would say, I know, but we don't have chocolate flowing. I mean, it's totally amazing and insane what we have here. I say good news in Serbia is not news. What you're doing and these laws you've proposed and this, if it happens, and hopefully it will, because we haven't invested anything in energy in 30 and a few years, absolutely nothing, we haven't set up a power line. I believe this country has a chance to move forward, and that's what all international institutions say, and they seem to be the most creditworthy. With great pleasure, I will support these laws, as well as the entire SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19775	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19776	Thank you. A very short time, but I think we could mention some of the important things we've heard here today. One of the things we heard from fellow MPs, China as the first economy of the world and from the minister. It's the exact fact that it's the other one. The world's first economy is the United States. I think that data can be Googled and found very quickly. I think it's important to mention that, too. Secondly, I don't understand why Mr. Ministers are so nervously responding to an opposition MP's performance. I think it's important that we talk with arguments. I don't think it's a good idea to put so much anxiety into this debate. I think there's a need to make arguments, if someone isn't, usually those who win... I don't think it's a good throw and that kind of nervousness. I think we need to speak exactly in the language of arguments. What is important to me, I think of the Minister of Economy, reacts to some performances and MPs in the ruling coalition, which in some ways extends economic defetism, where it is said, justifying this approach to the privatisation of Telecom, that this is necessary because, you imagine, "Telecom" in this situation, unless it is privatised, will experience the fate of the Smederjev Irons, or will not be able to fight with competition, in this sense. Look, this Telecom, with these people and this number of employees, makes a net profit of 140m euros. I really don't think it's correct to get upset that way, because that kind of approach reduces its value. The goal of all of us is to make Telecom more valuable from day to day and, of course, that it is necessary, with the access of each of us, with high responsibility in these benches, to talk carefully about all this. In that sense, I expected your reaction to such statements that, in my opinion, are not acceptable at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19777	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19778	I understood Djukanovic's MP about the potential danger in some future period, so that if we do not have enough investment, we cannot withstand serious competition. So, at this point, we have good results of "Telecoma Serbia" and now is the right time to think about the future of Telecoma, which is from 2016 and beyond. In this sense, all the activities that have been launched are aimed at "Telecom Serbia" being the leading company in Serbia, the same bar "Telenor" and those large companies in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19779	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19780	Thank you. I'd like to resort to a previous debate. Mr. Antic, when I was talking about the loan and the rate of interest that was during the economic crisis today, that's the data that can be verified. I'm not asking you, Mr. Antic, to be an economic expert, but I'm asking for political correctness when you say this is a loan at the lowest interest rate so far, tell the full truth, say whose technology will be installed, whose equipment and whose employees will work on it. That's not irrelevant, Mr Anticu. Mr. Antic, we didn't get along so well. You asked me if we'd vote for this loan agreement. I wasn't talking about the loan, the credit, whatever you want us to call it, isolated. So, if we were to talk about him as an isolated loan, we could agree, Mr. Antic. I spoke very clearly of the economic, political context in which we are in debt, and we are in debt over the period when this government has committed the previous two and a half years to 7.5 billion euros and is no longer the same situation as in 2009. When I talked about Juan and introducing him to our currency list that could be bought and sold to us, I didn't think about his strength or that it was bad for Serbia, but I was just talking about the fact that every morning when we look at how much money he lost in relation to the euro, the dollar, the Swiss franc, Mr. Antic, 20% today alone will have to pay more. In that context, I mentioned Juan, but you got it right just fine, of course, you won't tell the whole truth until the end. Of course, I have not received any answers from Mr Sertic and the old practice of the ruling coalition ministers, MPs from the ruling coalition, as of today, and MPs of the SPS, as they have received packages from the great chief, is to repeat, to talk about past times, about past times, about past times, about past times. I asked you, Mr. Sertice, what have you done and what will you do for small entrepreneurs? Nothing, Mr. Sertice. Nothing, Mr. Sertich, nothing, Mr. Antic. Let's go back to these two laws that I said I wanted to talk about thoroughly. Namely, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Society has arrived in the procedure of these days, and it has affected all legal principles, Mr Sertic, you are not a lawyer, are you? Mr. Antic follows Mr. Arsic and Mr. Becic's dialogue, but he will hear those who need to hear. So, all the legal principles from Roman law to today. Four members of the Business Society Act have been hit. I'll tell you a member per member. Thus, in the first article, only the first article violates at least three legal principles known from Roman law to this day. In this article, just to remind those who do not know what this is about, it is impossible for shareholders, in this case minority shareholders, the non-public company Telecom, from tomorrow when you adopt this law, it is impossible to buy the priority, i.e. to have the right to prevent the purchase of actions. This law was passed because of one legal person, because of "Telecom Serbia". Mr. Sertic and Mr. Antiću, and all those who understand something rightly, and there are in the SNS parliamentary group, there must be them, but I don't know if they want to say anything about this, the basic legal principle says that the law acts er gaumes - to all. It is therefore not possible to pass legal standards that will act according to one legal person, so it was also "Telecom", or any legal person. It is clearly stated in the explanation that this is due to Telecom, not only that, but what is clearly prescribed in the Law and the clear consequences will only come to shareholders of public, non-public stock companies, i.e. for Telecom shareholders. The second legal principle, also known by Roman law, is that the laws act in advance, act in the future, do not act retroactively, and even the name of your party would not allow you to pass the laws that act backwards. This law works backwards. Mr. Antiću, you are sitting in a government that makes laws that act backwards. The basic legal principle is being violated because someone forgot to implement the existing law. At the time of your government's mandate, the SNS could have realised, offered to sell and solve this problem. As early as the 19th century, Mr. Antić and Mr. Sertic, to remind you of what kind of government you are sitting in and what laws you are making, it is said that this has been accepted by the legal system of all European countries that belong to our legal system in which we are told – the subjective rights of individuals must not be violated by retroactive law, regardless of the general interest, regardless of the general interest, and you here in law call for general interest. It is true that our Constitution in Article 197, I will need a moment to find it, the first position – laws and all other general acts cannot have a return point. So they can't have a legal fact and it's said – only certain provisions of the law can have a back-up fact if this requires a general interest in the adoption of the law. Mr. Sertic, how can it be of general interest to a business society, was it also called Telecom? How can that be of general interest? If you can't get those entrepreneurs you say you're doing something, so that all those privates who can barely survive can tell you -- let's pass a law that will have a retroactive legal fact today, so that we can have a balance of payments, or a balance for the previous year. You only do it for one legal entity, because of Telecom. Mr. Sertic, it can't be a public interest. You can't pass a law that will retroactively operate because of a single business subject, because of a business subject that your prime minister, Mr. Vukic, said he wouldn't sell for a living head, because it's a family treasure, so now he's selling it. Today, we have a law that allows the sale of Telecom, which has failed its pre-election promises, but worse than that, is that you have all stepped down together, the fundamental legal principles on which the state is founded, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, Mr Sertic, you should know well that the fact that there are own actions and that perhaps your own actions will eventually disappear does not affect the market value of a company. So nothing epochal would have happened if those own actions had evaporated. So nothing epochal would happen, the market value of Telecom would remain the same. The market value of Telecom would remain the same, Mr Sertic, there would be no movement in ownership relations. What would happen? There would be a "Telecom" imbalance, possibly. There would be a imbalance in the balance sheet for 2014 and possibly that Telecom would show a greater loss. But that's no reason, Mr. Sertic, to pass the law so that some company can have a better balance. Do you think those who intend to buy Telecom are interested in their own actions? For them, the market value ‘Telecoma’ is important. So, even in that part where you say you stopped, you did some damage, you didn't stop anything. You've only turned fictitious money into another fictitious money, which one day you'll sell together as an accounting value without any market value. On the other hand, the third principle that was violated, Mr Sertic, is the principle of equality of property. So our Constitution clearly states that all forms of property are equal. How can you bring an amendment to a law that will single a company from other companies in the company of companies, and you know well what companies are, there is no need for me to discuss with you who they are? It's said in Article 86. The RS Constitution, the title of this member – The equality of all forms of property: “Secret private, cooperative and public property. Public property is a state property, property of an autonomous province and property of a unit of local self-government. All forms of property have equal legal protection." Mr. Sertic, how do you think shareholders of companies, to call them, private ones, don't even exist in the law of private companies, but to call them that, how do you think they'll have equality, when it comes to the right to interfere with buying, in relation to these small shareholders? I have no idea who these little shareholders are, the 20% Telecom. So I'm not protecting their rights. I don't know if they're legal entities that are state-owned, not state-owned, whether they're Serbian citizens, etc. On the other hand, Mr Sertic, Article 2, you have violated the following legal principle that has been generally accepted in the modern world and in the EU you are calling upon, and when you say that you are praised from the EU, they record the adoption of the laws that you have adopted. The application of your laws is, you can say, almost negligible. You're passing laws you don't apply. You're passing laws you don't apply. It is said in another article, this article says it makes it impossible for non-public shareholders to buy out actions that are their own actions of the non-public society. How can you explain to those natural and legal persons who may have had a desire to buy another two, five, ten, fifty actions, to join together, perhaps, that you took away their right overnight? You told the next member that the law was in effect on the first day after the publication. Tell me, Mr. Sertic and Mr. Antic, what kind of government are you sitting in? Who, overnight, adopt laws that do not allow those to be applied to or to see the law. I will read to you why the legal period of validity is eight days since the publication in "The Official Messenger", and it also says in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So, in Article 196. The constitution, prescribed to be published before the entry into force of the law, and published in the Republic's "Official Messenger". The same member of the Constitution prescribes that laws and other general acts enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of publication and may only enter into force earlier if there are particularly justified reasons. There are no particularly justified reasons, since this law has practically ceased to apply, or its provisions have already ceased to apply. And for what? What's the point of finding something together today, seeing if we agree or disagree? What's the point of having the laws available to the public for at least eight days, so that the citizens can get to know him? The purpose of this constitutional provision is to ensure that the full implementation of the law is assumed, the training of the persons involved in the application of the institute in this law, the training relating to the supervision of the application of the law and other assumptions, and that the public is informed of the content of the law and that economic operators, i.e. legal persons and entrepreneurs, natural persons, or state bodies, are prepared for the obligation to be governed by this law. How, gentlemen of the government, do you think all this is happening overnight? How do you think those who need to apply these laws will be able to get to know these laws overnight? On the other hand, this law has arrived by emergency procedure. So there was no way they could participate in any previous debate. Therefore, gentlemen, this law shows all the expertise, all the ability of this government. This law shows the way you rule, how you like to say it, to the state. I understand the ministers who passed one of these laws in the procedure, because they realized that they had failed in its application and that there were consequences, under quotes, there were. I understand why Mr Sertic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have passed this law. You'll probably ask, I hope, who was in charge of following this law? Don't your people sit on the board of directors of Telecom? Didn't you appoint the director of Telecom? Was he not obliged to make sure that certain actions that were their own actions should be placed on the market, or first offered to shareholders? So I understand you, because you do what you're told. But I don't understand SNS MPs, or SPS MPs, who are very up-to-date today, because, apparently, they have new tasks -- how to survive in the government, I don't understand them that they can vote for such laws. So, no harm will be done unless they vote, nothing will happen, just protect the state from injustice. You will protect this National Assembly from another law that has been passed under an emergency procedure, which applies retroactively, which is not treated equally by legal persons that exist on the market, etc. Let's go back to Telecom sales one more time. So, can you and can you at all have the authority to answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister why you were against the sale of Telecom, against a foreign investor coming in 2010, which is why Vucic, who was not in power at the time, was against it and considered it a non-domestic, irresponsible...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19781	You've already said that a few times. Please finish your presentation after the time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19782	... And now he's going to sell Telecom to fill in the budget gaps...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19783	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19784	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19785	So finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19786	I'll finish when it's 20...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19787	Don't say it a few times, just end up...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19788	I'll repeat as many times as I want. You're not going to write me speeches, as some of your MPs do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19789	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: I have two minutes left, Mr. Chairman. You don't. You can't go 22 minutes, you can only be 20 minutes, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is Mr. Babic, a replica of Mr. Veselinović's presentation. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19790	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been said a lot of things that aren't true, but I'll start in a row. Retroactivity. No retroactiveity. "Telecom Serbia" a.d. after the end of all preparatory activities, the fulfillment of previous transaction conditions with Greece's OTE, acquired its own actions on 25 January 2012, and an existing three-year deadline for their cancellation beyond the 10% value of the basic capital "Telecoma Serbia" a.d. expires after 25 January 2015. So, January 25, 2015, and today we seem to be in January 15th. It seems to me that on January 19th, we will discuss amendments and vote on this law that will take effect the next day. No retroactiveity. The argument of the previous speaker fell off, although he spent a lot of time. That there are no effects and there are no negative effects, there are negative effects. There are negative effects if we don't adopt a law like this. The overall negative effect would be about 40 billion dinars, which would be about 20 billion decreases in capital and 20 billion decreases in unallocated profits. We did not accept, would never accept, said counterpart Djukanovic, to sell Telecom for a bag of peanuts. Just as you wanted it in an extremely non-transparent process, without even a privatising advisor. Well, you see, we're conducting a procedure for selecting a privatization counselor, you wanted to do it overnight.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19791	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19792	And that, and of course, please, means ten seconds if you'll let me. We did not want to, and we were against it because Austria's Telecom bid was 800m euros in money and an additional 420m euros in nine equal annual wars in 2012. We weren't ready for that change, but we were ready to roll our sleeves, three years to work, put Telecom on healthy legs, on a healthy branch, and get the substantial resources we'll get in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19793	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, as rapporteur of the board of directors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the famous concern about the Telecom question was, they wanted to sell it in February 2011 and for the sake of MPs and citizens of Serbia wanted to finance the 2012 election campaign with money at Telecom. There was nothing else to ask. That's what they wanted to sell for change, just for change. That is why the President, the current Prime Minister, said at the time – we will not sell Telecom for that money. I expect, at least twice, a higher price than it was when they ruled. One more thing, it won't buy elections, it won't buy votes. One part of the money, unfortunately, will have to go to the expensive loans they've raised, and the other part will have to go into investment. It's a shame to ask some questions here. Who's going to do Te in Kostolc? The one who was doing the revitalization of B1 and B2. You didn't have a problem with them doing the same thing back then, and now you're having trouble building a new thermal power plant. That wasn't your problem? What are they going to bring on their backs? Well, something has to be done here, too, will be our subcontractors. Moreover, the construction of the thermal power plant lasts for five years, a period of exploitation of 34 years, 17 years for the full return of the investment and 17 years remaining in Serbia. Well, it's a shame someone's against it. It's just important to get out here and attack. It's not about arguments. Standards set. Standards are that some have not slept through, perhaps, currently set up for a thermal power plant such as they do not have, there are no thermoeletrans in Europe and the EU with these standards. So, for regulations that are valid and that will be valid at the moment of the thermal power plant's release. It's nobody in Europe right now. Is that a shame? Two and a half percent? Well, what do you want? Should we raise the loan at 7%, 8%? They're used to it. They raise 8%, 9%, and they hire some of their tycoons to make thermal power plants, roads, and everything else, and then they split the money with them. There's no one here. The financial structure is accurate, precise, no deviation. There were constant deviations until 2012. That's why we're here. Therefore, Telecom must be sold. Therefore, taxes on public sector employees must be introduced. That's why we had to damage those citizens who deserved retirement for their lifetime. Because someone was playing with the state. It was important to paint, it was important to put money in the pocket, it was important to make tycoons that control the government of the Republic of Serbia and bring Serbian Parliament laws in their interest, not in the interests of citizens. Well, now you're asking a question - why don't you arrest them? No one can arrest them. You wrote the laws so they could steal. What are you surprised at now? (Marco Atlagic, from the place: Where is Djelic? Everything you see behind you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19795	Please, Mr. Atlagic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19796	When a man, behind the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, behind the DS and all the DS clones, remains a wasteland, a desert in a material sense, not in terms of the lives of Serbian citizens because they are pricelessly good. More damage has been done to this country, to Serbian citizens than to NATO bombing and economic sanctions combined. And now they attribute it to us. No, gentlemen, we're going to make Serbia, lift it from the ashes after you've made it to the ashes. We do not want to see our own personal benefit, we want Serbia to be a country that is respected in the world, and we will see that at the price at which Telecom will be sold and its citizens will finally be satisfied, not to flee to the EU, but to Serbia as an integral part of the EU as a legal state, economically developed. You forgot that, the only thing that mattered was how to get a job done. Now, that time has passed, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19797	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. You don't have the possibility of a replica. No one's mentioned by name or last name. (Goran Ciric, from the post: The Democratic Party is mentioned, and I am the party's representative. Mr. Arsic, did you mention the party? Yeah, then you're right. Here you go, Mr. Kiric. I didn't hear the DS mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19798	Here, another outpouring to me really amazing nervousness and unnecessary at the moment. I don't know why it gets so nervous when we try to talk to arguments and about something that can be seen through data. Here, I'll answer the gentleman, my colleagues, through some data. He said one really offensive thing, unacceptable, that DS has done more damage than NATO bombing in 1999 and economic sanctions in the 1990s. I'll tell you one simple piece of information you can check, of course. The colleague spoke about GDP in 2012, public debt, public debt participation in GDP, and here I will remind you. After that 1999 unfortunate year and 90 years of sanctions, we entered 2000 with GDP and public debt of 169.3% compared to GDP. Public debt, and you can verify that, was 14.167 billion euros. Check it out and you can see it on every site that's serious about the economy. So that was 163% of the public debt in GDP. It was the result of what they were carrying in the 1990s and the economic situation that the then coalition and government of Dr Zoran Djindjic assumed with an average salary of 30 euros, in October 2000. So that's the data, that's the real data. After six months in 2001, data say the average salary is 200 euros. So much for that speech, but it's a key message, there's no need for so much acuity, so much anxiety. It doesn't do any good, and I think it's getting contagious, because it's much more productive to talk in silence about concrete and suggestions and data, and here I am trying to talk to arguments and figures that are available to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19799	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The word has Dr. Tomic. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) You have no chance of replicating, Mr Ćirić was given because the DS was mentioned. You can't, it's not directly done for Mr. Kiric's exposure, you can't call. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: Before that, I answered the previous exhibition. ) You can't now, it has to be done directly. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Veselinović, I can't sit with you right now. Excuse me, Dr. Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19800	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, let's finish today's debate in which we talked about everything that should lead this Serbia forward. But there is obviously a great misunderstanding of some MPs, especially who are somehow difficult to discuss in general economic parameters and about the desire and will of certain structures of authorities that have simply prepared high quality laws. That they are quality and really give the future a chance to simply congratulate all international organisations and all political entities that really respect and that are going towards economic reforms we must implement. But what I'm going to say in peace and quiet is that we can't forget the past. We cannot forget that the Development Fund has provided guarantees of 79m euros for non-solvent enterprises. That debt's got to be paid back, somebody's got to pay. Simply, in 2013, the Serbian government, the Ministry of Economy, realised that such a system of work that the previous regime led through the Development Fund, pumping financial resources through certain enterprises, which were granted without guarantees, without any possibility of returning these loans, is simply not possible. This new concept should give the possibility of really opening up companies that will have production-oriented programs, meaning, without new value and production, there is no progress. Services and something that belongs to the part relating to actions that are simply not created on this value and do not employ young people, can no longer be financed from the budget, or cannot from the Fund. This fear that there are certain ways in which he will not be able to guarantee the Fund, simply does not stand, because now the Fund has first control over the teaching of funds, secondly, the control itself when paying it off. I would give you a good proposal like the IBRD does, and that is to give one mentor, or mentor who will run the company and follow it from the very beginning of writing the project until the moment he pays off all those hours. We simply can't let any of the entrepreneurs slip into that loan payment, because they'll get better too, they'll hire more people, they'll take new credit arrangements in which they'll be able to work. It's never been possible until now. What has to be said is that all the criticisms of such a project as "Costoc B" simply do not stand. It's something that started in 2010 in collaboration with a large Chinese company, it didn't come from the sky, and this credit arrangement didn't come from the sky, it simply came from a situation where there was a pre-investment study, and then an investment study, and it happened that this project was extremely financially justified and efficient, especially in the construction of new objects, and we have the last facility "Gerdap", which we built as a state. This will be one object that will give us practically this energy stability without which Serbia will not be able to function in the future, and this government is essentially this government, along with all these laws, has heard a lot about Telekom today, shows a high degree of responsibility in which we simply all have to move. Anyone who wants to criticise these types of proposals in a certain way, through legal solutions, can do so in a very constructive way, to make certain proposals that can be acceptable, but anyone who uses a particular dictionary in which it shows, first of all, ignorance but also indiscriminately, simply must not be manipulative in this Assembly and must not be one part that will become a daily part of political life. In the end, I quote a writer who said that a year can only slow down those who never had the courage to take their own steps. Those who once had their own steps led to the destruction of this Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly not allow it, it will take such steps in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19801	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Veselinović, are you saying that we hurt the Rules of Procedure at Mrs. Tomic's exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19802	Mr. Chairman, my colleague Tomic can't hurt the Rules of Procedure, you can. You know the Rules of Procedure enough, so you've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19803	That's what I was just saying if you're saying that I hurt the Rules of Procedure when I exposed Mrs. Tomic. Explain how?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19804	Yeah. She used more offensive expressions, and before that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19805	Mrs. Tomic, I think you really want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19806	Before that, you didn't give me your word, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19807	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19808	First of all, I'd like to comment on a few things. Kola Arsic, of course, is very well aware of the Termoelectrica in Kostolc and of course everything that has been said is in line with this contract and the documents that served above all, as the basis for the implementation of this project and it is true that the period of repayment of the project is about 17 years, which has been added to the period of some estimates until when the production of coal will be adequate on the copy “Drno” and these estimates on today say by 2052. However, I want to believe that the century and the digging itself, but above all, the thermal power plants will be much longer and for this reason is one of the projects of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, which we have been working on in the past few days, weeks and months, is the possibility of opening a new underground coal mine in Kirikovec, which is precisely on the other side of the digging of "wood", one village at the entrance to Kostolac and there is really one serious study that says that we could enter a new production of coal there and that we could provide about two million tonnes of coal annually from underground exploitation, coal that is with a greater caloric value, means more quality coal, which we could significantly extend, to say, a period of exploitation of the entire dig "wood" and thus a deadline of exploitation of the plant itself. We will work on this in the coming period intensively and we have discussed this with our Czech friends, it will be one of the topics of a mixed committee that will be with the Czech Republic in March of the month and the possibility that with Czech companies that are truly top-notch in the field of mining, we will also work on modernising existing underground exploitation and opening, I repeat, new mines. The government of Serbia is indeed making huge efforts and is primarily committed to the financial stabilisation of the country, to the financial consolidation of public enterprises, but also to economic growth and development, which are the basic premise of the government's programme and of the prime ministers through all government members, these are our basic tasks, and that is what the first plan is and what we are completely committed to. I deeply believe that 2015 will bring serious economic growth and development before all in 2016. In 2015, there will be a year in which we will fully stabilise all systems, especially those that have been threatened by floods. I expect in 2015 to return the production of coal to that level from 2013, and above all, I think to Kolubara, to get close or get to that 30 million tonnes a year. This is about seven million tonnes more than it was in 2014, when we actually experienced one disaster and cataclysm, primarily in the area of mining and electricity production, and this indicator suggests that in this segment alone, compared to 2014, we would have achieved some new income that we lost from around 150 million euros in 2014. About that much is the value of this amount of coal that we will produce more in 2015 compared to 2014. When it is translated into electricity, now depending on whether we sell that electricity on the domestic market where it is sold below the economic price or possibly export it in some good arrangements can increase. So, all that we're doing, I repeat, is primarily full of meaning in that economic sphere. If in time before us we solve these several key global economic important issues, I mean Željzar Smederevo, of course my colleague Sertić knows far more about it, but I look forward to it as a minister of energy, because Željzara Smederevo when she works with both furnaces, when she works at full capacity, it is a few more percent increase in our energy consumption and production at the annual level, so we should also work in energy. So, Topinica in Bor, if we can get into some strategic arrangements and manage to create strategic partnerships that will lead to an increase in copper production, with our own resources to fill Topionica, that's another strategic thing. The third thing we've been working on, and today there have been meetings, it's about activating and putting into full capacity a chemical complex, and above all I mean "Petrochemical", "Azotaru" and "MSK". So these big things, in themselves, raise our economy and our GDP, and that's the first step in relation to what we have, that we have to achieve growth, and that growth is going to pull everything else, along with the whole ambience and set of measures that the Ministry takes to create conditions in which, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises will have their chance and I believe they will take advantage of it. In the end, I want to thank all the MPs for one good debate and a law that will allow Serbia to receive the first major energy facility after decades. I may have expected too much and expected general support for this law, although on second thought, when out of 250 MPs only one speaks against, it is still a high level of support for this law that is important for Serbia and its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19809	I thank you, Mr Anticu. The word has a minister in the government, Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19810	Dear MPs, I want to thank everyone who in a sincere and right way recognizes the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to turn the economic situation in the country for the better, to be aimed at all our citizens and all those who live not only in cities, but also in rural areas, to support the development of the private sector in different ways in different ways. It is also very important that you supported today's majority in this hall and these two laws concerning the amendments to the law and the Development Fund that has enabled us, as I mentioned earlier, to launch production in Simpa, which allows us to negotiate seriously with "Esmark" and employ new workers, which has enabled us to start production in May 1st and in all companies where we have a large number of employees. I think you should ask them best if they're happy and happy about it or if we should shut down the Development Fund and say, simply, we can't help you in any way. Also, I think it's important that we understand today's majority support and small changes to the Business Society Act. In the course of the day, I announced that in the first quarter, we would come up with a major change of laws that we have identified that in some of our applications it takes more efficient, better and better quality not only to protect companies but also an ambience in which they will be able to show their full capacities and performances. I am very pleased that you have understood that today's law is committed and refers certainly to all economic societies in Serbia, but that it is an initial topic of our biggest telecommunications operator, a company that has a serious impact on Serbia's economy, yes, Telecom Serbia, and I am very grateful for supporting that company in order to enable really in the coming period of quality, good talks on how and in what direction in the future Telecom Serbia, we will all develop together, not on the shortcut, not on some secret agreements behind the door, but above all by taking offers and thinking of privatisation consultants, people, companies that will apply to this competition, so when we choose the best company we will get an opinion from which way "Teleko Serbia" should work in the future, and we have a greater number of ever so far-interested big investment funds, world companies that are very interested in one of the regional players today. We will have the opportunity to discuss on the board any amendments that are submitted today. Any amendment that goes in line with this direction I'm talking about will be adopted. We have never seen who proposes, except for the purpose of every amendment and the result that it will make in the overall sense of a certain law, so we will have the opportunity to see each other again here in the Assembly in a few days and to make and adopt the amendments to these two laws that we have discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-15-0.u19811	I thank Minister Sertic. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the joint principled Single Search on drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 3 of the agenda. I thank the members of the government for their constructive participation in today's session. We continue our work on Monday, January 19, 2015, with a start at 10:00 p.m., a search on the details of the 1st to 2nd agenda.
