ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43276	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43277	Thank you, Chairman. I would take this opportunity to ask a few questions in the hope that I will get an answer, although this hope is growing every day on land and land, given that many questions raised this year have not been answered by me or my colleagues. My first question is a question for the foreign minister. Nearly a month and a half ago, two citizens of the Republic of Serbia employed at the Serbian Embassy in Libya were abducted. To this day we know nothing of their fate. I ask the minister – what is the state doing to bring Sladjana Stankovic and Jovica Stepic back to their families? I think this question is very serious and what concerns me most is one great silence that comes from both the minister and the entire government in these months and a half. In many other cases that occurred in that part of the world, other countries reacted very actively and the public was fully aware of the government's efforts to free their citizens from the kidnappers and return home. Unfortunately, there's a whole other picture of us, that's what we're talking about. I don't know what the wish or intention of the Minister and the Government is, I don't want to speculate about it, I'm just asking as an MP a question with a desire to get a notice from the Ministers who measure the Government's actions to get Sladjana Stankovic and Jovica Stepic back to their families. The second question is – what is the government's intention, I asked that question more than a year ago and I repeated it several times, I never got the answer – what is the government's intention to maintain the production of cars in the Fabriat "Fiat Cars Serbia" in Kragujevac? The model produced there has been produced for more than four years now. There are no announcements for the production of another model, although it is an obligation to produce at least two models by 2018. This year, which is also logical given the fact that the same model has been produced for four years, decreased production, I think it will be barely 100,000 cars. That is why in recent months, at least every other week the factory has not worked, the unions have also asked the government what it will do and whether its representatives, or representatives of Serbia's state, will be on the board of directors, and Serbia there, on the basis of 33% of its ownership in the factory, has a president and a board member. The chairman of the board of directors has been changed and it is the only reaction of the government. Did the new chairman of the board of directors come there with any plan, any idea of how Serbia would choose to meet what was agreed when the investment in Serbia came? I never got an answer to this question once from the government, but I'm gonna take this opportunity to repeat it today with the belief that something might change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43278	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43279	Dear Vice-President, my question was addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, who promised not to resign as co-ordinator of all security services, and he also serves as secretary and member of the National Security Council. Since the other day on the RTS show we could hear that the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic did not arrive on the table and that he did not open them even though it was his obligation, since the President of the Republic is the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, but also the President of the National Security Council and should therefore have all the information on the table, he should read this information, know what is going on and carry out all these functions unanimously, and the President is also on the list of state officials who should receive all the information and security assessments of our country's security services. In that show, he said he didn't know what to do, that he didn't want to go and beg for reports, my question was addressed to the prime minister, again, I say as a secretary and as a member of the National Security and Coordinator of all security services, does he know who refuses to deliver the reports to the President of the Republic and if he knows how to provide us with information on who sabotages the delivery of these reports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43280	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43281	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on November 3rd I asked the Parliament's question to the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government in which I asked the question – whether the statute of the Vračar City Municipality was violated in such a way that the City Municipality of Vracar as a state body organises party stands on its municipality and with day-political topics exclusively for the promotion of one party. Guess which one. It is the DS and unfounded criticism at the expense of some ministers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, etc. The Ministry of State Administration did not answer a few days ago that, I quote, according to the cited provisions, the supervision of the lawfulness of the work and acts of the authorities and units of local self-government, so the municipalities, the cities and the cities of Belgrade are in the area of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but since the town municipality of Vracar is being educated by the statutes of the city of Belgrade, so in this case the town's relations and the city's municipalities are being arranged. Given that she is not a unit of local self-government, so I was advised to ask this same question to the Belgrade City Assembly, or to the competent secretariat, or the competent authority of the city of Belgrade. I therefore repeat the parliamentary question, but I refer it to the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, so – is the Statute of the Vračar City Municipality, which recently organises a number of daily-political stands, but exclusively for party purposes? So, only for the promotion of DS and they don't hide it. In addition to what I am talking about is the invitation of the president of the municipal board of DS to Vračar, who invites members, citizens to the stands, which I repeat, to organize the city municipality as a municipality of all citizens and bear the costs of the organization of all Vračar citizens, and says – proudly, because in Vračar we speak freely without censorship and about DS. So that's proof number one. That the practice continues shows the invitation of the same chairman of the DS municipal board to social networks, when it calls for a new summit, which was in November 27th-a maze of non-culture. So he says -- the non-cultural discussion -- the Democratic Party's relationship with the Serbian Progressive Party towards this topic. There they must have wanted to somehow bring us into connection with the unculture, some kind of an unculture maze where the starlets are mentioned, quasi-literacy, "Farma", tabloidisation, etc., as if we had something to do with it, as if we were responsible for the state of culture, as if these things were not the product of their own government. Well, starlets, "Farma", tabloidisation, estradisation, everything else, it's precisely the product of their pest government. And now they're trying to show us as a burden. On the side, which continues to abuse the resources of the township of Vrachar the entire apparatus, so they organize every day some party stands, meetings in the city hall. So we have another piece of evidence in that sense -- presenting the government's shadow programme. Guess where? In the So Witch's room, so. And not to list now all the other affairs that we have brought here and the affair about the appointment of the huge number of assistants of the President of Vracar City Municipality and information about criminal and criminal charges against now already former president of Branimir Kuzmanovic municipality by the DRI and the initiative to determine the truth about alleged allegations, i.e. the alleged stories of the purchase of councilors and the like. And I know it's DS's manners to abuse the resources of the city's municipality, in this case the Vrachar Municipality sees it as private property, but I will repeat, the city's municipality is the municipality of all citizens, not DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43282	Thank you. The possibility of asking a question has been delivered by MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43283	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, more than two months ago, I asked two questions to the Minister of Education about the problem of nostrification of Kosovo high school diplomas and the problem of textbooks in Albanian which have been sealed at the customs terminal in Presevo for three months. As we have no answer to these questions so far, I have been forced to repeat the question of the recognition of Kosovo diplomas that I have repeatedly asked since the Constitutional Court of Serbia challenged the government's regulation based on the Brussels Agreement on mutual recognition of high school diplomas issued at the universities of Serbia and Kosovo at the end of April 2014. I have informally learned that the latest talks in Brussels on this topic found no mutually acceptable solution to the status of the University of Mitrovica, which is why this comprehensive issue has not been resolved. In this situation, it is certain that graduate personnel at this university, I think of Mitrovica, have difficulty in hiring in the central authorities of Kosovo, but it is also certain that they have no problem in hiring authorities and municipal-level institutions in Serbia. In the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja graduated personnel at these Kosovo universities without no nostrification have no opportunity to work, to work. It is precisely the non-resolvement of this vital, actually existential problem that drives young Albanians to leave this area mass, as the official estimate of residents in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja indicates, not counting on natural growth in Serbia in 2002-2011, that the number of Albanians has dropped by at least 10,000. So I ask again the question – is there political readiness and what is a concrete plan of the Ministry of Education to solve this vital issue of life? On another issue, I would say again if at least half of the textbooks and textbooks in Albanian were still missing in primary schools, and no textbooks were provided for secondary schools. In the last year, there has been a serious setback in the security activities of these textbooks. In this context, it was also in Brussels during these last talks, I think it was somewhere in late September, it was discussed, it also discussed the possibility of donations to a number of textbooks issued in Pristina for schools in Albanian language in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. These days we have an opportunity to hear that this is impossible when it comes to history textbooks and I, on the previous question two months ago, made it clear that we had a very positive practice in the period 2003. In 2007, the ministers at the time made decisions for each school year, solutions to use textbooks to issue in Pristina for that school year, with the fact that they were, of course, disputed textbooks from history, and there were no solutions, but there were no problems for mathematics, physics, chemistry and all other subjects. In this context, I again ask the question – as far as it came, were these textbooks actually guided by certain procedures to find an adequate positive solution that would be very important in this invisible situation that we currently have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43284	Time. Thank you, Mr. Halimi. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs – Borislav Kovacevic and Dijana Vukomanovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a law on enforcement and security. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Nikola Selakovic, Justice Minister Zoran Balinovac and Nela Kuburovic, assistant minister of justice, along with other cabinet members. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43285	Thank you. Therefore, the proposed amendment has been implemented, i.e. only further detailing what municipal services and related activities are, and we have proposed that Article 3(3) reads - on the proposal to execute on the basis of a credible document in order to settle the monetary search of municipal services (water, sewerage, heating, municipal waste delivery, chimney services, public parking, funeral services, etc.).) as well as similar services (electric energy supply charges, PTT services etc.) the public executioner shall decide. Therefore, the essential amendment refers only to the further precision of those services to which Article 3 of the proposed law applies. I'm sorry the government didn't accept this amendment, but I think it would only contribute to a better understanding and unequivocal interpretation of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43286	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43287	We have an addition to inserting a new position, where it should be written - a proposal to execute must indicate whether the execution will be carried out by a court or by a public enforcer. Namely, this argument is directly related to Article 4, where we propose to delete that member. The legislator introduces public enforcement officers, who have so far been called private perpetrators, in the power to execute almost all executive cases. The execution on the basis of executive documents, i.e. judgments from litigation cases and enforcement on the basis of a credible account, such as a legal person's invoice, constitute the largest number of execution cases, which brings enormous financial benefits to public executioners. The court was left with only executions in the area of joint sale of things, execution of inaction, patience and others, which makes up a trivial number of cases in executive proceedings. On the basis of the existing law on enforcement and security, it is possible for the Executive Trustee to submit a proposal for execution to choose and indicate for himself who will carry out the execution, whether the court or perpetrators will. I believe that such an option should also be left in this bill. Also, as regards the fees for judicial perpetrators, as well as the persons employed in courts far less than those charged by public executioners, this is the solution we propose for the perpetrators, the executive trustees of the weaker property situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43288	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43289	In Article 12, we believe that the proposer is almost without any need to use the crowd in this case. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, in the second position of this member, he uses one. So, the promoter doesn't have a constant approach even within this member, which we think needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43290	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Thank you. National MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 16th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43291	Thank you. Amendments proposed to Article 16. The law we have proposed that, apart from judges and public perpetrators, they be responsible for making decisions within the prescribed deadlines and that any other conduct of that provision constitutes a disciplinary violation. Therefore, we believe that the important effectiveness of the Implementing Procedure Act also contributes to insisting on disciplinary responsibility, not only of the judges, but also of the public enforcement and security executives involved, so that for this reason we have proposed such an amendment. However, I see that the Government of the Different Position and that this amendment has refused, which I do not think will lead to increased responsibility and public enforcement in the enforcement process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43292	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43293	The essential reason for your amendment of this article is quite fine, and I'll just remind you to look at Article 527 of point 1 of point 2) of this law, which defines more severe disciplinary injuries by a public executioner. This article provides that a serious disciplinary injury is a delay in making decisions and conclusions in the executive procedure or the security procedure or the untimely taking of actions that are directly carried out by execution or security. Therefore, this type of responsibility for non-compliance by the prescribed law is already provided for, only by another member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43294	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinović. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43295	Thank you. So our intervention with this amendment to Article 17 is simply a language character. I'll read the proposal on article 17. Article 17. – The failure of judges of the first degree or second degree court to appeal or appeal within the time limits set by this law shall always be taken into account in the procedure for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Position 2 says - The President of the Court is particularly obliged to watch over this. That's one, least of all, an unusual formulation for one legal text of this type. We have only suggested that a point be added to the first position and that the President of the Court be said to be particularly obliged to take care of the compliance of the deadlines and the application of the Law on the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. But I can see that's not accepted either. I say, although this is not an amendment that shows a fundamental distinction, but only a language formulation, I really think it is inappropriate to say that the President of the Court is particularly obliged to keep an eye on it. For one of these legal texts, it's an extremely inappropriate formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43296	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. Thank you. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. You have your word, Mr. Petrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43297	If the position of the 2nd member of the bill provides that the procedure is to continue, then that assessment implies that the previous procedure has been terminated, which is not foreseen by the legislator. The termination of the proceedings leaves the possibility of a case where the procedure of settlement under the Mortgage Act is not implemented, so that the Executive Trustee may continue the judicial procedure. Legally and procedurally, we believe that it is more appropriate to provide for an end to the procedure in a situation where the advantage of implementation is to have a procedure under the Mortgage Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43298	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. National MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. You have your word, Mr. Petrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43299	In our opinion, Article 23 should change and read – Decisions in the executive procedure and the security procedure are the solution and conclusion. The title of this article shall be the decisions in the executive procedure and the security procedure, not who makes the decisions in question. It is therefore absolutely unnecessary to refer to a court, or public enforcement officer in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43300	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. National MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinović. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43301	Thank you. The proposed amendment to Article 23 has also proposed that an enforcement solution, based on an executive or credible document, be reasoned. Namely, the enforcement procedure is initiated by submitting a proposal for enforcement and may be decided by rejecting, refusing or adopting the proposed enforcement. As the Executive Trustee has the right to a reasoned decision in the situation where his proposal for execution has been rejected or rejected, we believe that the same right should be provided for both the executive debtor and the decision to adopt the proposal, and further proceedings should also continue to be explained. In addition, the making of an explanation of the decision, i.e. a solution to enforcement based on an executive or credible document, does not really require that an intellectual effort be ordered or it causes specific costs, so that for this reason I consider it an unfair and inconsistencies from the obligation to make an explanation of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43302	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Vesna Martinovic and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Zvonimir Stevic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43303	I thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I can only express my satisfaction that, regardless of the refusal of amendments, as defined here, the same amendment has served as a kind of standoff for a procedural standoff that we set up a new amendment by the Committee on Justice and State Administration, which rightly intervenes in this Member and thus sets out a symmetry between the Law on Procedural Procedure and the provisions of the Law on Implementation and Security, in which the procedural institute of return to the previous state implies protection of interest and party, and thus achieves the effectiveness of the procedure, as the promoter had the aim. Therefore, indeed, what was the objective of my amendment and my colleague, Stevic, and hence the SPS parliamentary groups, has now been achieved through the amendment of the Committee and therefore, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we support this amendment, and we really believe that this is a good system solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43304	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted an amendment to Article 28. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43305	Amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government are hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43306	I find that a representative of the Government has accepted the amendment of the Committee. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted to the peoples by MP Dubravka Filipovski. There's a word for Mr. Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43307	Dear Mr Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague is absent and I have an obligation in front of the MP's club of the NS to explain this amendment which we thought should have been adopted because the amendment was submitted to Article 31 of point 9), it sets out in detail why we believe it is necessary to be accepted. It would be good to pay attention to the bill and compare it with the solution proposed in the amendment. To be honest, I don't see any reason to reject this amendment. It is said -- the government accepts the amendment because the financial instruments account situation is a top secret. I'll read to you how this provision reads in the original text of the bill. Therefore, the state authorities of public authorities, other legal entities and entrepreneurs are obliged to, at their request, the following information on the executive debtor and, among other things, the account numbers of financial instruments and the situation on them, I stress that, and the situation on them. You will allow me to note that the bill already stipulates that legal entities, entrepreneurs, are not obliged to, at the request of the court, or the public executioner, provide data on the number of financial instruments and the state of affairs on them. Well, how is it that, suddenly, the explanation is that it's a strict secret? You'll agree with me that it's not the most logical. The amendment, in essence, added only one detail, which is the delivery of data on potential sequestrations in the account of financial instruments, which is, on the one hand, entirely by analogy with your proposal, when it comes to cash accounts in the bank, and on the other hand, as already stated in the explanation of the amendment, the usual situation in practice is arranged, that actions and other securities of value are placed in stock and that they are the subject of enforcement in the process of settlement of creditors. I also believe that the NS parliamentary group should have considered that this amendment should have been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43308	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Article 31 speaks of the duty to provide information. We have suggested that Article 31, paragraph 5 be deleted. Namely, Article 5(3) of the Code states that public authorities, public authorities, other legal entities and entrepreneurs are obliged to provide to the Executive Trustee, who shall state the claim for whose settlement or security purposes he intends to conduct an executive procedure or a security procedure and to attach an executive order in which the claim is contained, free of charge, all the information which is required to be delivered to both the court and the public enforcement officer, except for the information contained in the tax application for the last three years, and that under the same conditions, there is also a duty to provide information to the lawyer, as the attorney of the Executive Trustee. Information obtained by the trustee and the Executive Trustee's lawyer may only be used for the purposes of the executive procedure, and data on legal transactions and actions only for the purpose of the execution of the legal actions of the executive debtor. This solution to the bill opens up a space for the abuse of rights, the misuse of data that the executive trustee has come to, which is unacceptable from the point of view of constitutional and legal standards on the protection of personal data. We believe that the application of this provision would in practice create legal chaos, and we propose to amend its erasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43310	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43311	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a little illogical of this proposal, starting with the executive trustee and his lawyer still having to have insight into the material condition of the debtor, if he's already making a motion to settle. If we adopt this proposal relating to the availability of data, which is subject to the obligation of public authorities with public authority, legal persons and entrepreneurs, we would really come into a situation where the trustee has no insight into how and how it can be settled and simply cannot give a proposal for reconciliation. I think the next member, Article 32, who follows, has put a certain limit on the availability of data both to the lawyer and to the executive trustee because he only limited them to the amount for which the availability of such data in the amount to which the executive trustee can be settled, so I think there will be no abuse. If there are, and it is possible in all areas, there are ways to sanction it and that whoever abuses that data is subject to sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43312	Thank you. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43313	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, we have proposed this amendment because we believe that the provisions of Articles 34, 34, 3, 4 and 5. The draft laws are contradictory provisions with Articles 196 and 199(1) which provide that the costs of the procedure are to be reported until the conclusion of the settlement and the conclusion of the settlement is settled. It remains unclear whether costs will be decided by solution or conclusion. Since the conclusion of the settlement is an executive action which can be challenged by the request to remove irregularities, we do not believe that there is a need in this situation for the cost of the procedure to decide on a solution. Therefore, when the procedure is carried out, the executive procedure ends in the conclusion, due to the settlement of the Executive Trustee, the costs of the procedure should be determined by the conclusion of the settlement rather than by a special solution. Only in a situation where the enforcement procedure is terminated, there is a need to decide on the costs of the procedure on a subsequent specific solution to which the complaint can be made. In the event of completion of the procedure, the request of the executive trustee must be fully settled, including on behalf of the costs of the executive procedure, and must be established during the enforcement action of the settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43314	Thank you. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečić, has analysed the contents of all our amendments, that we are the People's MPs of the New Party on these draft laws, which are included in the agenda, these Ninth Sessions of the Second Regular Session in 2015, respected gentlemen, have submitted 10 amendments to the honourable gentlemen, MPs, of which five amendments have been accepted. Five amendments to the New Party have been accepted, for me it is a reason for one satisfaction, since, gentlemen, every amendment that contributes to the quality of the bill's proposal, I consider it a reason for joy, the satisfaction of a national MP, who is constantly committed here to his legislative work. Dear gentlemen, I believe that Mr Becic and the other Members of the People know, but that Minister Selakovic does not know this and it is important for our amendment debate that in these years and eight months, Mr Selakovic, we MPs of the New Party have submitted 1783 amendments, of these 1783 amendments, Minister Selakovic, a total of 155 amendments were accepted. When, honored gentlemen, Mr Selakovic, it is transferred to percentages, then the percentage of the amendments accepted, us New Party MPs, for this year and eight months is 8.7. So 8.7 percent of the accepted amendments. I, Mr. Becic, will ask you to include this electronic device for mathematical operations to measure me and those five amendments, to introduce all MPs and, of course, our guests and guests into the debate in particular and on the content of the amendments that we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have submitted. Mary, Mr. Becic, the device of those five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43316	You go ahead, Mr. Pavic, and I'd like to ask you, I've allowed you to express your enthusiasm, and now I'd like to ask you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43317	This is all about the amendment, Mr. Becic, and Mr. Selakovic confirms it. Be careful, gentlemen, according to certain analogies we make, Mr Selakovic, 8.7 percent of the new party's accepted amendments may, according to certain analogies, mean that a congregation survey here confirms that the New Party today has the support of 8.7 percent in the electoral body. That, gentlemen, is the result we've achieved by what? A persistent, hardworking, dedicated work in the National Assembly, which we all here, I think, call a central political institution and that's a special reason, I think, for pleasure. Dear gentlemen, we have also suggested that a change be made in Article 35 in point 1. Proposal for a law on enforcement and security. This amendment is not one of those five accepted amendments, but I will offer further arguments to both respected associates and associates and, of course, Minister Selakovic, that I think it is good, to accept this amendment as well. Here you go, gentlemen, as far as this amendment is concerned. We have suggested this, he says, the position of Article 35, when this law determines the deposit of the guarantee, it is placed in domestic or foreign money in the deposit of the public executioner. Minister Selakovic suggested that the formulation be the next – when the law sets out the deposit of the guarantee, it is placed in domestic or foreign money, in the public executioner's deposit. Dear gentlemen, my basic argument to which I am calling, now, on this amendment, is the necessity of a terrible precise formulation of what goes into the law. Accurateness, honored gentlemen, as well as lack of direction towards frequent changes to the law, which we agreed on two days ago here in respect of respect, respect and application of the most important principle on which our Constitution rests, in Article 3. The Constitution writes that, and that is the principle of rule of law. We believe, dear Mr Selakovic, that this one is stuck after the word – money is excess. In such a formulation, Article 35. The bill also seems to us that the most precise, most clearly this content would be to whoever reads it, if that comma is deleted, there is no reason, I think, Mr Selakovic, that the comma stands. It can serve certain lawyers as a reason to sometimes interpret the content of this formulation in different ways, and our idea is that we do not have a formulation based on which it can be interpreted in different ways. Be careful, we Minister Selakovic, pleased that these five amendments have been accepted, but we think it is important that today in the discussion in particular we consider these unaccepted, even in some detail, details which, once respected gentlemen, can change the content of what is the position of a member of a bill. We will, of course, insist, Minister Selakovic on further consideration and the remaining four unaccepted amendments. There are three that we obviously need to be accepted, and on this amendment I agree there may be a discussion. Here, I ask you to give me an argument if you still feel that you cannot accept this amendment at the session today, and if our additional argument, which I have now stated, is convincing, to tell the MPs of the SNS here, before they report to Minister Selakovic, to say that they are against the amendment, that they are for the amendment, and I see support with them too, Mr Selakovic, so I only ask that this support be recorded here to enter the stenogram, that Mr Becic can also write it down. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43318	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for your inspired speech. Here you go. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43319	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is with great satisfaction and respect, as Professor Atlagic said, academic honesty, Professor Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, I accept this amendment. But not for the reason it's put into account. Namely, there is a mistake here, and whoever is doing it and is wrong, the law of the 551st member, and if you can take a look at the position of 1st Article 35, there is one technical error, because according to the original text of the proposal you received, that position reads: "When this law sets out the laying of a guarantee, it is subject to it." So it's likely there's been a breach here, domestic or foreign money deposited by a public executioner. As far as your amendment is concerned, firstly, it is imploding to me when we are discussing such lacks of laws, which are of a technical nature, which means that the fundamental proposal of the Law is good, which was also spoken of by fellow MPs during the principle debate. I may think that it should stand, "when this law determines the deposit of the guarantee, it is settled, in domestic or foreign money, in the deposit of the public executioner", because the arrangement is a guarantee, the way it is paid, and the deposit is the place where it is carried out. But in any case, your amendment is better than the original text of the proposal and thank you for contributing to the quality of the bill, and I am convinced that, now with six amendments accepted, we will have your valuable vote for this bill, on the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43320	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43321	As an authorised representative of the SNS at today's session, I wanted to do so before the minister, and I called before the minister, to support and accept this amendment. We are not like the ruling party or the ruling party, in any way detestable to anything that comes from opposition lines, if that is rational and if it contributes to the improvement of the law. However, today we will have a debate on some 280 amendments, and believe that most of them are cosmetics and I am glad that most of the amendments of this parliamentary group that are today accepted by the minister, just like this - comma or comma, point, interaction and that's what they have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43322	Mr. Nikolic, you need to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43323	Everything else is stuck. It's about the amendment on the wrist right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43324	You are talking about accepted and unaccepted amendments, because the parliamentary group has accepted some amendments. You need to talk about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43325	Okay, thank you, but I've only linked myself to the fact that the other amendments are similar to this amendment, i.e. completely benign and do not affect the essence and change of the law, which means that the law in the global world is very well-conceived and I want to commend the Ministry of Justice that it has done so in a valid way. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43326	Another piece of information, Mr. Nikolic, no matter when the time is right, the minister has the advantage and the minister first reported to the system. On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the Citizens' Protector and People's MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna, submitted... (Dear Nikolic, from the scene: I apologize to explain. Can I have a word about this? ) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43328	Of course the minister always has an advantage, I didn't say you should have given me your word. But I said that I answered before the minister answered, with a desire to insist on accepting this amendment, which means that we, as a parliamentary group here, act automatically and specifically and we have a desire for the executive authority to listen to what the MPs say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43329	You may be right at this point, Mr. Nikolic, but only the chairman can see the order of reporting. Thank you. On the 36th amendment, in the same text, the Citizens' Protector and People's MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic submitted. The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43330	Thank you. By way of derogation from Article 36 of the Treaty The draft law on enforcement and security, the delivery of letters to the executive debtor, has been arranged. Article 1 of this Article provides that an executive debtor who is a legal person or an entrepreneur shall be provided to the address of the seat or the address for receipt of mail entered in the register of the APR or other public register, and to the natural person to the address of the residence or the address of the place of residence which is entered by the authority keeping records of the identity cards. However, this provision is incomplete because it does not foresee a solution to the problem many citizens have shown to the Citizens' Protector in their complaints. That lack of insight is shown in the fact that the addresses of executive debtors supplied by executive creditors do not have to be in a large number of cases and are not identical to the addresses entered in the records of the competent authorities. When it comes to the collection of claims on the basis of utility and related services, in practice it is very often that the addresses of executive debtors delivered by public enterprises are not in line with the addresses in the records, sometimes even between different organisational units in the same public enterprise, e.g. the organisational units sector, the services sector and the demand collection sector. It also happens that, despite the fact that users of municipal services, potential executives are not registering the relevant change in the use of services, i.e. change of address, change of ownership, service providers and changes for certain reasons, and that is the consequence of the initiation of the enforcement procedure for non-executive persons. Therefore, this proposed amendment establishes the power of the courts, i.e. the public executioner, to obtain, under official duty from the competent authority, the address of the executive debtor if it is established that the address of the executive debtor supplied by the Executive Trustee does not correspond to the address in the records of the competent authority. The way in which the provisions are formulated, Article 36, paragraphs 2 and 3 does not eliminate the shortcomings to which the largest number of citizens and pointed out in their complaints to the protection of citizens, which mainly referred to the conduct of the perpetrators in the delivery of executive debtors. It is prescribed, by Article 2, that, if the delivery fails, the following working day shall stand out on the court’s notice board which has reached its decision on the execution on the basis of the documents carried out or authentic. And when it comes to a solution to enforcement on the basis of a credible document, delivery shall be repeated once more after the expiry of the eight-day period since the previous delivery. If the re-delivery fails, the solution shall expire on the court’s advertising board on the next working day. On the other hand, paragraph 3 provides that the supplier shall leave in the account of the executive debtor or elsewhere in the address of the executive debtor a notice containing the personal name of the executive debtor, the property in the procedure, indicating that it will be pointed out in writing the following day on the court’s notice board, the name and address of that court and the warning that, at the end of the eight-day period of expiry of the written notice, the court shall consider that the delivery has been carried out. In the majority of complaints from citizens, it is indicated that the enforcement process, and therefore they only learn about debt when their employer or PIO fund begins to carry out the execution on earnings or pensions. This prevents citizens from exercising the right to a remedy guaranteed by Article 36. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because at the moment they learn that they are being brought into action, the deadline for submitting the objection prescribed by the applicable law has long passed. Therefore, this proposed amendment, which provides for an obligation to leave the executive debtor with the greatest possible degree of legal certainty in the event of failed delivery and to allow for a decision to be taken in court, i.e. by the public enforcement officer before the notice, to achieve the highest possible degree of legal certainty, certainty to create a presumption of effective and effective exercise of the right to the legal remedy of the executive debtor on the one hand and the effectiveness of the executive procedure and the protection of the rights and interests of the executive trustee and the public enforcer on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43331	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43332	Thank you. I'm only asking if I step over two minutes to be denied my time from the parliamentary group. So what we certainly agree on is that the current way of delivery in the executive and in many other procedures was not effective enough and it was important and it was an important brake for the effectiveness of the procedure itself. What is essential about delivery is to find the right measure to enable efficiency on the one hand in the process itself, and to enable parties in the process itself to protect their rights and to exercise their interests in one legal way. The government has proposed one way of delivering, which seems to me, is a kind of extreme compared to the practice so far. Namely, it has been suggested that, after the first attempt of delivery which proved unsuccessful, the court’s advertising board is immediately highlighted, leaving the debtor with notice that it is written on the advertising board. I believe that this is indeed one thing, I understand the need for the procedure, including part of the delivery procedure, to be quick and efficient, but on the other hand, I think it might be more appropriate, perhaps after the first attempt to deliver within eight days, to try again with the delivery, to take over the second delivery to the person to whom the delivery was tried, leave a notice that, in the next eight days, the executioner or in a particular court may take over in writing and only after that, point out on the notice board. This fully protects the interests of the parties in the process, guarantees the legality of the proceedings and excludes the possibility of unfounded complaints concerning ignorance, i.e. the lack of sufficient information on the fact that the procedure is ongoing, that certain concrete actions in the procedure itself have been taken, etc. So, I think that we agree that delivery is very important because it affects the course of the procedure, affects the quality of the procedure, but I really think that the proposed solution to the law on enforcement and security is too restrictive and will cause really serious problems in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43333	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. Just to let you know, I won't, as long as you have the time of the parliamentary group, I won't interrupt you, so take care of your time. Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43334	Thank you. I'm glad we have the same opinion when it comes to the issue of delivery of court mail. We have a problem here when it comes to different types of procedures and this problem comes first from the inequality of procedural legislation. So we have one way of delivering in criminal and one in litigation, or not one more, in litigation, in execution. It's just that time has run us over somewhere. For years, especially before 2012, there has been a major change in procedural legislation in Serbia, and these changes have not been followed by new regulation of mail delivery issues along with JP "PTT traffic for Serbia". This is where your proposal and ours differs from what you've been leaving for a long time. My opinion is, and especially given that the executive procedure is something that we have found in the debate in principle, which carries a much higher degree of certainty than any other court procedure, that this is a good way. What I'm trying to find is a solution for the future, and here I remind you of that interim remark, that we are looking for solutions that are suitable for the 21st century, that is to enable, with the court's notice board, every citizen by typing his unique birth number on a particular portal to get information on whether a court in Serbia has been highlighted some kind of call to that citizen and what call is in question. At this point, we have a situation where the server that works, or servers that function in our judiciary system, are not strong enough to support it, but that is not why we are not working on it next year and we are actually coming to that solution. I think it's something that's quite good and appropriate. Any other way to point out on the Internet would cause us a problem with protecting personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43335	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43336	Mr. Minister, I support your decision not to accept this amendment, but at the same time I want to tell an esteemed colleague that there is a lot of logic in what you have stated in this amendment. However, the executive procedure and the security procedure are the finals of all procedures until then. The party, i.e. the debtor, is aware of all the elements of the proceedings against it and is not instructed to turn the executive procedure into a litigation, where it can be delayed again. If it's attached to the ad board, you get a notice about it. Within eight days, you are required to pick up your mail and from that moment on when you pick up your mail or it starts to count in writing and you have the right to object, you have the right to appeal. Therefore, we do not want a new litigation procedure to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43337	Thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 36th Amendment. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43338	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Movement for Turning to Multiple Laws has submitted a number of amendments and ministers, i.e. the Government has not accepted any amendments. I suppose this is because it is about the essential amendments that should protect the citizens of Serbia, not the perpetrators in this particular case. In this particular case, I have suggested, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, that an opportunity be left to try to deliver three times and that the person to whom this delivery has been tried be informed that within eight days the notice will be pointed out on the notice board, i.e. that it will be pointed out in writing on the notice board. We believe it is not enough to leave a notice saying that the next day will be written in writing on the notice board. We can imagine the situation where the Minister's notice was left, the person was on the road for eight days, that notice was left on the ad board, it was past that deadline, came back from the road, the execution was realized. And it will be, believe me, a very common case, or people won't look at the mail in time, they'll be sick, they'll be on their way, and they'll just be surprised by the execution. You should have, and that was the motion of the Turnover Movement, to leave a notice that within eight days a notice will be placed, not the next one...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43339	Are you using your time as well?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43340	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43341	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43342	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue with unnecessary amendments by certain NGOs, but I am pleased with the fact that if nothing else, when it comes to amendments to this bill, so the law on enforcement and security, it is about fundamental amendments, unlike, and here I agree with the previous speaker, that fundamental amendments are, unlike the next law, so the Law on Public Registration, where a bunch is waiting for us, let me say, an amendment with the text "wipes." When it comes to the amendment itself, I've already said, it's a unnecessary amendment, and I don't want to be maligned, I don't want to express myself in a permissive sense, but he really is. We can see that from the reasons, or opinions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which she has delivered to us. In order not to read the argument now, or the opinion of the Government and the amendment itself, since it is long, it is the amendment of Article 36. Therefore, after Article 2, a new position is envisaged which changes the notification and delivery procedure, etc. But I have to look back on one part of the argument that this amendment is not accepted. At one point, it says, in addition, in Article 37, therefore, in the next article compared to Article 36, it is already envisaged that the court, through whose advertising board the public enforcement body delivers acts and letters, shall keep a special record of when the act or in writing is highlighted on the advertising board and when they are removed from it and shall issue already official confirmation to the public enforcement authority. Since the amendment's proposal is something like that, only more complicated, he predicted, it is in favour of the fact that it is a completely unnecessary amendment, although I do not want to challenge perhaps good intentions. But from the very oral interpretation of this amendment by the previous speaker, I must say that it bothered me at one point when it said that trying to protect Serbia's citizens is an attempt. Don't just protect the citizens of Serbia, please, just don't worry about the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43343	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43344	Thank you. I would like to point out a few facts that cannot be doubted. First of all, it depends on the orderly delivery to the party on any further procedural action. If there is no orderly delivery to the parties, then we block the court, then there is absolutely an obstruction in the follow-up, regardless of the procedure, whether it is a litigation or a procedure that is followed by the provisions of the law on enforcement and security, and we know that according to this law, the provisions of the ZPP apply. I believe that any further harmonisation or more complicated than existing procedural solutions contributes only to an even greater obstruction of the work of the court. If by law alone, by system solutions to tie the court's hands, then there's no point in submitting any amendment. On the other hand, it seems to me that knocking on the open door, if we already have the current situation in the courts, that the courts themselves are keeping records of the emphasis on the advertising board, that every judge before giving the notice order on the advertising board is obliged to record in the case file that any act, any other act, will be highlighted on the advertising board, so that it is absolutely unnecessary in that direction to contribute already resolved in a procedural and legal sense the issue that relates to such delivery. In addition, the CAP has processed what is related to the delivery, but I think now this law has even more restrictively systemised something that is related to the delivery to the parties, precisely because the party would not use the law as an abuse of procedural powers. I personally believe that this is how the abuse of procedural powers arises and therefore, for the sole reason of these professional reasons, I believe that the amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43345	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43346	Thank you. Unlike my colleague Nedja Jovanovic, I will exclusively support for professional reasons such an amendment by my colleague Veseinović, because one is the legal regulation of the solution, and another is the practice that they daily, who goes to court to see everything and everything, especially in terms of delivery, attempt to deliver, the way the delivery is done, the way it is delivered on the court's advertising board, the way the court's advertising board looks, the way the decisions, which are hung on the court's advertising board, hangs one over the other, fall out, trample, etc. I just have to point out one thing, because I think that when the debate is about amendments, there's no need for anyone to be offended. If the amendment is said to be submitted by NGOs, the antonymous would be that the amendment is submitted by government organisations. We're parliamentarians here, not any organization. Secondly, the amendment cannot be unnecessary, the amendment can be acceptable or unacceptable. I think that's explicit and something like that, and it's in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in a work that regulates the activities of the Members of Parliament, or the Institute of Amendment. So, in the voting day, I will support this amendment, because I think it makes sense, a team before those who have and who work in the judiciary come into court in any way and can see how this delivery is done, whether it really works the way it should, what the advertising tables look like where the letters are placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43347	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica of Ms Batic's presentation. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43348	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, I won't open up the controversy with my esteemed colleague, whom I greatly appreciate as a lawyer and a lawyer. I just have to point out that it's obvious that the two of us have completely different approaches in our practice and that we have different experiences in terms of courts and court proceedings, how courts usually work when it comes to these procedural solutions. To be honest, I didn't find it quite like that, let me use the term "neglect" when it comes to the court's advertising boards, but what neither I nor my colleague Batic will be able to doubt is the fact that lawyers always have the opportunity to gain insight into the list of cases, that the files of the case are always available to determine which procedural actions are being taken or not taken and, accordingly, inform the parties in good time about everything that can be warned, both rights or abuse of procedural powers, and respect for the rights of the party in the proceedings. Of course, they can agree that there are situations, i.e. that it happens that courts work quite the opposite of what we point out here and the attitudes we represent and that there is a situation where indeed these advertising tables are not sufficiently arranged and are not transparent in the sense that citizens should experience and have and how parties in the process should be satisfied. In any case, the regulation that is provided for is too wide and in some way, in my deep conviction, complicated, but I will no longer appear under this amendment. The position of the Socialist Party of Serbia in this direction is that for reasons I pointed out, the amendment is not acceptable, it is legally not acceptable, and I would never say it is pointless, that it is negative in any way, as it would hurt someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43349	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43350	Thank you, Chairman. (Dragan Nikolic, from the post: Head of Parliament. ) Here's Mr. Nikolic, after me, I'll do it very briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43351	Mr Nikolic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment is not acceptable for the SNS parliamentary group. The reasons are set out in what I said, when I explained not accepting, or proposing not to accept the amendment, a colleague who gave it. This is an even wider explanation, an even attempt to put the debtor in a much more favourable position. The notification received by the debtor in the workplace or in the seat shall contain all the elements, and most importantly, it shall indicate the court where the proceedings are conducted and the number of cases under which the proceedings are conducted. So, every party, including that ignorant one, can, on that invitation, see the elements that are most important to him, go that day or in the next eight days to the basic court, be informed of the case, look at the register by name and last name, and find the document. He'll take the document if he's interested as a party, and he'd have to be, because he protects his rights and uses the legal remedy that this law provides for him. It is inappropriate for us to speak in this House in the worst possible way of talking about the justice that we have been trying to put on our feet for four years, that after the Constitutional Court's decision, when almost 900 judges and prosecutors were returned to work, who began to reduce the number of cases whose suffocation occurred precisely because these judges were out of business and were paid for all the time of their absence... If there are some mistakes in some courts, if there are some judges who don't do the job right, if there's something that's against the law, there's the Ministry. What I know is, there are already several cases where a certain judge's resolution is proposed, there is one case where the court president's resolution is proposed. It just shows all the serious and Syrianity of this ministry headed by Mr. Nikola Selakovic. We're trying to fix something, and someone's trying to kick us in the eyebrows and not let us do it, but believe me, a lot of people tried it, so they didn't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43353	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43354	Thank you, Chairman. Very briefly, because of the truth and the citizens of Serbia. Until a moment ago, I wasn't underprivileged, until a moment ago I had no evil intention when I described this amendment as unnecessary, and that is also the fact that the amendment promoter did not find it congruently or in any way offensive, but some on-call lawyers felt the need to defend it, although there was no need for that. When it comes to the mention of the NGO sector, yes, I said - the NGO, or NGOs. Since I'm not a lawyer, I have to ask a question, distinguished lawyers, what's the difference between the association of citizens and NGOs? That's what I really want to know, I'm not a lawyer. What is the fundamental difference, since the amendment promoter is the Movement for Turnover, i.e. the Association of Citizens, or NGOs? Please, if anyone can answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43355	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43356	Thank you. I have the right to both replicas and to what Mr. Neđo Jovanovic said and what his previous colleague said, but good. I'll try to make it within...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43357	Ms. Batic, I apologize, but Mr. Neđo Jovanovic said, "Dear counterpart Batic." So I don't find it offensive to give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43358	Then you have to change the Rules of Procedure, so when someone gives you a compliment, you have no right to a replica, to define it so precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43359	That's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43360	Please give me back my time, so I can continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43361	Mr. Markovic didn't mention you by your name, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43362	You did mention me, but well...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43363	Attorneys on duty, if you've identified yourself in that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43364	You didn't hear that, but here I am. As far as my esteemed colleague Jovanovic is concerned, you will not give him a replica, since I said he was respected and highly appreciated his work as a lawyer, and I have to note for a short while that Mr. Nejo and I are mostly acting in different courts, so the matter of seeing everything about delivery is extremely different. As for my colleague who asked me a question, when NGOs and associations are on this agenda, I will be happy to answer all the questions he asks me. We are all MPs here and there is no need to turn aside, so before the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are scheduled for the amendment to be submitted by MPs. Imagine in one. So, the MP by name and last name. We've got independent MPs here and everything. It is not the amendment of the parliamentary group, but the name and last name of the MPs, as you can see, which are signed on such an amendment, and that excuse was not malignible, it simply does not exist, has it been seen from the way you act and the way you react. You know, if you say here some of them are being submitted by NGOs, then it would mean an antonymous that they're being filed by government organizations, so why such a debate and dissension, the debate in particular is always an expert debate. And for the very end, none of the lawyers here should represent Mr. Vesenovic, he's a doctor of laundry science, he has his own attitude, and me supporting his amendment is my professional position and no one can tell me anything about it, as long as I feel free to think, and I think as long as I speak my thoughts freely, and my freedom of speech is never censored by anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43365	Thank you, Miss Batic. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 37th amendment. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43366	In the name of the Turnover Movement, I submitted the amendment again that goes in this direction that I was just talking about and which she explained well in that part, the professional part from the practice of counterpart Batic. So, Mr. Minister Selakovic, I've seen what the court's advertising boards in Serbia look like. They do not look at all. So each other's solutions are hooked up. Like this. You can't see who they're referring to or what it says on them. So if you think it's transparency, if you think that in this way some party that has not been given a solution will see or his neighbor says – well, you see a neighbor there in court is your solution, go see what it is. So it's about pure fiction. As the handover was made so that it could be realised under allegations that there was no handover, but that it was a fictitious handover, so this advertising is only fictitious, and the citizens of the ministers will therefore have serious damage. The execution will begin even though they have no idea that the execution has become a forceful one and therefore we have suggested even the dimension of the tables, because the current tables are such that they cannot really fit more than a dozen solutions. Imagine when all the solutions from the ICTY arrive, when it comes to the execution of the CAP and are mixed with other executions. Well, who's gonna be able to get that papazian minister to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43367	Time. I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43368	Mr. Chairman, the SNS parliamentary group has proposed not to apply this amendment. There are more reasons. The notice board in the basic court serves to advertise cases of criminal, litigious, extra-parnite, executives, we cannot please executive debtors and make special tables for executive debtors only. On the other hand, there will be no emphasis on all the solutions of the utility companies on the advertising board. Only solutions will be highlighted for those who avoid receiving a call, i.e. receiving a solution in those who are not found at the address registered for residence or residence or the place of residence of debtors. Only, therefore, one who avoids, one who has not received and one who has received notice at his address that there is this solution, that he can raise it in court, that there is a number of cases, stands the court to whom he should address, only such debtors, and these are those who will try to abuse this law, which will try in all possible ways to at least one more day delay execution, will be found on that board. If the neighbor is going to pass, so she can read, the neighbor doesn't care, it should be interested in the debtor, and we're sending this message to the debtors -- make sure you pay it within the time period, don't wait for the public executioner to come to your house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43369	Thank you. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43370	Thank you. With this Article 38, we wanted to change Article 1 of this amendment, which reads: “that the court imposes fines on a party, a participant in a procedure or another person who, by his conduct, offends the court of the party and other participants in the proceedings, interferes with or prevents the execution, even when the execution is carried out by a public executioner. ” We believe that it is necessary in Article 38 that a court may impose fines on any person who interferes or prevents the execution necessary as a link with Article 31 as a sanction for the failure of the data supply. Well, I would ask you to consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43371	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43372	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously a good intention to propose the amendment, however, it is a matter of oversight. The fact is, Article 38 refers to individuals who are being fined. In it is said: the court pronounces fines for strangers, for a participant in proceedings and for another person. The activities and procedures for which fines are imposed, proposed by this amendment, have been effectively sanctioned in Chapter VIII by the execution of fines where, among other things, the mention of interference, the prevention of the court, the public execution, the obstruction of the work of forced collection organisations. Therefore, all the procedures in that Article 131, which we will come to a little later, are factually listed, is quite extensive in that Article 131, and covers both what has been amended and proposed, so it is not necessary for this amendment to be accepted regardless of the good intentions of the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43373	Thank you. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43374	I thank the chairman. I have proposed that, in this said Article, paragraphs 52 and 5 be amended in such a way as to - a copy of the accounts of the municipal or related services carried out, with written evidence that the executive debtor has been informed of his obligation; and the item 5 which would be changed in this case and reported - an account or a copy of the accounts for seeking a public media service fee with written proof that the executive debtor has been informed of his obligation. In particular, as regards this fee for public media services, I will do so a little later, since there are colleagues who have proposed very meaningful amendments, but cannot be accepted that the credible correction, similar to that for the execution, is only a copy of the accounts, communal or companies that provide such services with similar communal services, if the executive trustee of course did not, with a proposal for execution, deliver and prove that the executive debtor has informed of that obligation, because in legal traffic is not at all difficult, even more, very common situations that debtors do not receive an account, either for any other reason. In any case, there is a lot of reason, hence, there would be a completely unfair solution to impose on the debtor the obligation to bear the costs of the proceedings which are not actually small, if he was not previously left with the possibility that he would voluntarily settle his obligation within the time-limit. Of course, I think that this solution is more acceptable than that provided for in the specific points 4 and 5 of Article 2 of this Article 52. What I have to notice in this place is that no amendments have been accepted that should have been accepted and amendments that should not have been accepted. In particular, one of my amendments that I saw for myself was a mistake and, in total contrast to the law, was accepted, but that was later in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43375	Thank you. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43376	We believe that Article 52 paragraph 2 point 5 needs to be deleted. It reads - accounts, or performs from business books to claim a fee for Public Media Service. The legislator provided this for a public service subscription fee to be credible documents and that an executive procedure could be initiated on the basis of them. The public service fee now defined is too high for our citizens in line with the situation, the difficult economic situation in which our citizens are now located and the position of our party is to prevent forced collection. So it's just an emergency payment for the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43377	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43378	Thank you. Of course, in Voting Day, I will support this amendment by my esteemed colleague, Petric, because, as far as all the media public service in the country of Serbia is concerned, it must be noted that the issue is the legal nature of the tax itself and whether it is sustainable and whether it is legally allowed, it is possible and what is most important whether it is so, rather than something constitutional at all. The attitude that these citizens are further created is that of which both this government and the previous government and the one before it are instructed to abolish it, because that, of course, harms citizens etc, and in fact the subscription has been abolished, and then the tax is introduced. Therefore, the disputed legal nature of this tax and the constitutional point of view is seen as very questionable whether such a thing is sustainable. Here, it can be very logical, according to this amendment, to ask a question - and excuse me who is the full budget, part of the budget of that same Public Service? Citizens of Serbia and now, do they finance RTS? Yes, these same Serbian citizens are funding RTS, and if I don't spread the subject, I'm putting myself in a personal position that what cannot be self-financed simply shouldn't exist, I was a public service, not a public service. So, as far as the tax is concerned, I have to correct my colleague, Petric, nowhere to be determined, we have no idea at this time what the tax will be, whether there will be 50 dinars, 100 dinars, 300 dinars, 500 dinars, perhaps more if such RTS is allowed in accordance with what they have received from the budget. And what's controversial is there's a good part of the public that opposes this kind of cab, and I sincerely hope that the tax on the Media Public Service will be abolished, because it doesn't have to exist, it's a senseless imposition on citizens, and by one law, I think even this one provision is prejudged at all, and it's not even known if it's legally sustainable. So I'll support the amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43379	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I just want to support the amendment of my distinguished colleagues and absolutely support the discussion of my colleague, Algica Batic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43381	I'm on fire. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43382	Dear fellow Members of the People, here's an almost identical amendment, as my colleague's amendment. So, the amendment refers to Article 52(2) point 5 - is deleted, points 6 to 12, after points 5 to 11. What my colleagues said before, I have a need to supplement. So, in just one way, the fee for the Public Media Service is unsustainable to charge in this way and it will also be impossible to carry out any forced charge, because all that are utility services, which citizens pay, where they can be burdened with certain debts, or to be subject to an executive procedure, is something that they have clearly agreed on. These are clear bond relations. You have concluded a contract with the EPS on the supply of electricity and there is a clear understanding of what happens when you do not carry out your obligations, and one side fulfils its obligations. So, all the other utility services are clearly defined, but the fee for the Public Media Service is something that is absolutely poorly arranged and the way we have burdened the citizens, firstly it is not fair, the height is inadmissible, and what the citizens at this point cannot control and escort in this process, nor can the perpetrators. First, if someone has a number, it doesn't mean they have a TV and they watch the Public Media Service. There used to be a different bill in this country. Citizens had a clearly agreed relationship with Yugoslavia's Radio Television, Serbia and paid monthly contractual relations and the use of these services. That's why I suggested that this point be removed, deleted and that this area be completely, if there is a need for it, a different solution, otherwise arranged. We now know that we have a lot of cable operators, that citizens make a clear contractual relationship with them, they owe and pay off or get the subject of some complaints, but these are clearly agreed relations and very evidence in court. This is something we won't be able to follow in this law. It will be a problem, it will be the subject of many concerns, and I fear, since the amendment has been denied, that the courts will be burdened, it cannot be obtained in court because they charge the citizen because he has counted or has some other property tax for the Public Media Service is the same as if anyone who has shoes charged a tax on the use of roads, which is charged on registration of the vehicle. So that's something I suggest you accept either the amendment of my previous colleague or my amendment, are identical, absolutely. Leave this area for some other law to be resolved and in general the question of the public media service fee to citizens and the collection of these services in some fair, mutually satisfactory way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43383	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43384	Thank you. I will support Mr. Petric's amendment and will also support Mrs. Zlata Djeric's amendment. I don't think there's any need to further explain, because she's already explained this matter enough. So my view is that you completely erase this tax as a credible correction because I am not sure that it will be held and then do not prejudge anything by the law on enforcement and security and, of course, Mrs Đeric said very nicely about the possibility of payment, or the inability to charge on this fee, because if we look at this moment, we don't really know what will happen to that tax anymore. The only thing we have left to do is watch each other's shootings between the Ministry of Culture and the board of directors of the RTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43385	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Senić, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Vojislav Vujić, Mr Dejan Radenković, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoltan Pek, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic and Slobodan Homen submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43386	In carrying out the execution, enforcement authorities shall take care of the ratio between the level of the executive debt obligation and the means and value of the subject matter itself. In practice, examples are common to abuse this principle and in some ways block the assets of an executive debtor that is significantly higher than the asset value before its debts are raised. As a matter of fact, we have stated that this member should be changed and said, that is, that position of Article 360. — the execution decision does not specify the means and the subject matter of enforcement, but the execution is determined on the entire assets of the executive debtor in accordance with the provisions of Article 56 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43387	Thank you. The 6rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić, Ivan Karic, together. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43388	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, dear fellow Members, I have already discussed the law in principle as to what I consider to be the most important moment of this law and I am obliged today, primarily for the sake of the citizens, to repeat and to say why I do not think this law will satisfy what we are proposing and why this Assembly will adopt. Of course, Mr. Minister understands me very well, we understand each other in the debate in principle, but since none of the amendments concerning this area have been adopted, I must repeat what I said in the debate in principle. Otherwise, I'll use the time of the authorised representative, in addition to the time for the amendment. So the essence of this law is that he asks the state to implement court decisions effectively. The court exists to protect civil rights, human rights, to protect and create a certain order in the country, so that not everyone, of course, can exercise justice in the way he considers it appropriate. When the court takes a position, when it takes a decision and we have an executive order, the judicial order, means we are talking about procedures where first-degree proceedings and second-degree proceedings, where emergency legal remedies have been exhausted, we are talking about the possibility of a constitutional appeal and, ultimately, the state is obliged to implement the decision of an independent branch of the government, i.e. the judiciary. What is essential, if someone has already proven his right in the court proceedings, this Assembly should also be obliged to pass a law that would allow it to be achieved as effectively as possible in practice. I don't want to repeat myself from the debate in principle, but the fact is that very difficult today, not only in Serbia, but also in some other countries, under three or four years will be able to exhaust all legal means and to achieve the enforcement process. We're talking full court procedure. After so many years, we rely on this law, the law on enforcement and security, which we expect to finally fulfill what we expect from the state, which is to settle certain obligations that have arisen in the past. So we're specifically saying that if someone stayed due money out of business or in any other way and any other rights, it was time to charge. You were ready when you entered the procedure to wait for a certain number of years, but you want it to be as effective as possible. Why is this law still important? Let's not just talk about the citizen, talk about the economy. We know that the economy depends on the entire state, we know that the wages we receive today pay some kind of economy through the tax that is collected and that is why we can work and pay for this electricity here. The economy and domestic foreign investors are essential if business does not go in the direction they imagine they have, that they have a court, an institution that will protect their rights. The point here is that they expect more effective court proceedings. Now let me go back to the amendment, or the next ten amendments, because all the amendments sound so much, so to speak, inappropriately. They are simple, they say – it is deleted, which is not some manner of amendment that I want to endure and our parliamentary group. Why is it wiped out? Because they demand that the law delete completely one institute that is now being introduced by this law, which did not exist in the previous law, which we believe will reduce the efficiency of the procedure, which is the appeal. What's this about? So, after so much implementation of the procedure, which I have already talked about, a solution is expected to take place on the basis of which a court ruling would finally take place, and this law allows for the fact that a minimum litigation procedure is brought again against that enforcement decision, i.e. the executive debtor is allowed to file a complaint. What's the biggest problem is, it's not only a problem that it's a complaint, it's a court of law in the second degree. I think we're all aware of what this procedure looks like, and especially those who have contact with the court, that this is something that only a lawyer can do, because right now you really need a lawyer and an execution procedure, because there's so much chance of procedural actions that the party can hardly do it alone without making any mistake. In other words, when a complaint is filed, it goes to a second-degree court and the second-degree court decides. It takes some time. We know how long it takes to make a written correction of the verdict, to send it, to expeditate, to return to the first degree court. We're talking here in ideal conditions, to live in an ideal country for an additional six months. These six months aren't ordinary for six months, and I'm guessing it'll go up to a year. But I'm saying they're not ordinary for six months, because what you want to do is charge as efficiently as possible. Because we've been witnessing for years that there are a large number of non-performing claims in this country. Why? Certain legal persons, as well as natural persons, but first and foremost businesses can go into bankruptcy, because the moment they have an executive verdict they know they have lost the dispute, they know that the claim will have to settle and have a certain period of time, in this case even six months, and perhaps longer, to deliberately drive the firm into bankruptcy, to transfer funds, to change the holder of the right to immovable property and never to make their commitment in fact. This is the essence and need for the efficiency of the process, as a large number of abuses are prevented in an efficient manner. Our economy will be more efficient and as a market we will be more desirable for foreign investors. On the other hand, by all criteria and criteria, we will be a more successful country if we have an effective executive procedure. What you know very well is that often the desire to do business in a country is measured by the way, length and efficiency of the court procedure, because it is one of the ways in which the rights of potential investors are protected. In that sense, members 74 to 85, if I'm not mistaken, we suggested that they be deleted. I don't expect the minister to accept that, because we simply have a second view of the application of this law, but I believe that in two or three years, since the law will only apply from July next year, we will be witnessing that the executive procedure has slowed down and that we will have to reconsider changing the law, i.e. the adoption of a law that will be in line with the standards of efficiency and needs of a better and faster procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43389	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43390	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to repeat what I was saying in the debate in principle, but clear clarifications do, we have a problem with executions and acting under this law in which there is no appeal. You know that very well. This law and work on it was based on a very good assessment of the enforcement system of the claim, which was done by colleagues under the project "Vladina's rights and enforcement of the claim", and under the auspices of the German organisation for international co-operation of GIZ. What I'm holding here is just one summary of this extensive assessment, which is five times more extensive than what's here in front of us. I'm just going for what my colleague homen was saying to quote section six in a part that talks about the realization of execution, so to the general aspects. Section 6 is called – legal medicines, complaints and objections. With blue paint here, as you can see, the recommendations that colleagues from the German international co-operation organisation have made are marked. The first recommendation is to reintroduce the complaint. The reintroduction of the appeal is explained on three pages, and I will only read the beginning that says – it is necessary to reconsider the introduction of the appeal as a devolving legal remedy, which is decided by the High Court. There are reasons: the harmonisation of court practice in the wider area, the more effective protection of executives in the event that an executive order was not brought into the proceedings, and the executive ruling is not only a judicial verdict, the elimination of the current situation that judges of the same degree cross-determined the objections to their decisions and the elimination of the possibility that judges who do not deal with executive matters or have little judicial experience decide on complaints.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43391	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43392	Just in one sentence, please. I'd like to remind my colleague Homer of one more thing. When colleague Homen was State Secretary and then the Justice Department proposed the current law on enforcement and security, there was also a complaint, and the government took it down. I'll just remind you of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43393	The word is Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43394	Mr. Minister, just for a little while, so there's no misunderstanding, of course I'm only here to talk about abolishing the appeal when it comes to an executive correction based on a court ruling. So I'm not talking about a credible correction, it's not a question, because that kind of thing would be totally unacceptable, and it wouldn't have any seriousness in its application. But once again, we have court proceedings that last in the first and second stages, emergency legal remedies, constitutional appeal have been exhausted, and we've come to an execution. I really believe that the superior interest of the state, of the ministry, of the National Assembly, of the economy should be as effective as possible in implementing such a decision. Everything else is unthinking, not just the execution, not the execution, it's devising the entire justice system, if we're waiting two to three more years to get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43395	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43396	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have come to the essence of where we, as the ruling party, disagree with the opposition. We've come to the point where there's going to be an argument of "yes" and "against." We need to defend, and the opposition is attacking a legal solution. I don't think it's hard to defend this bill. I don't think it's hard to defend the decision to introduce the Institute of Appeal in an executive procedure. The complaint also existed under the 1978 Implementation Act, and it is a guarantee of the legality of the executive procedure. I will remind the public that, in a complaint under the proposal of this law, the judges of the High Court and the judges of the Court of Appeal, in a larger than three judges, decide. In the law that is in force now, the judges of the Court of Justice or the Court of First Instance decide, so the three judges who sit every morning, drink coffee and agree with a colleague who has made the decision to which the complaint is written. It won't be that there's two degrees, it won't be that, under the applicable law, there's security for the debtor. That's why we're giving him the hand, giving him the opportunity to write a complaint for reasons that are restrictively stated. I'd like to say two things about the appeal. It does not have a suspension fact, execution, therefore, does not stop, execution continues at the same pace as if the complaint was not written, that is what is most important, that in no way can prevent the execution of the ongoing operations. So, if you wrote the execution, you're looking for a cash payment with a jury account or from the current debtor's account, a cash amount will be removed with all the accompanying expenses, the complaint will be decided within deadlines which are also very short, which are very narrowed down, where there is the obligation of a judge who receives a complaint that, at the same time, in the next few days, the list of cases will be delivered to the Board of Appeal, i.e. the Court of Appeal. These are arguments that absolutely convince us that in the voting day we will vote for this law in general, and this amendment must be rejected because it represents an attempt to change the legislator and part of the legislator to introduce a complaint, and if we are going to do so, we also have recommendations from all the agencies that have been consulted on this, the public debate has been made. I'm not sure we're comfortable with lawyers here, I'm not sure we're gonna have any more perks than that. Mostly the debtors know they are obliged, they know that in the procedures that led to the execution they have lost in one legal way, they have a rightful and executive decision. This rightful executive decision only needs to be implemented in an executive procedure that has speed and efficiency, but by adding the appeal we want it to have respect for legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43397	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43398	Ladies and gentlemen, I would agree with my colleague's predecessor. The aim of the law, the aim of this institute, is to protect the rights of the executive debtor, on the one hand, but to end the procedure as quickly as possible. We will have opportunities through some of the next members to see that this appeal and the Institute of Appeal is quite thoughtfully incorporated into this law and the deadlines are quite clear. There will be no possibility of abuse, there will be no possibility of an endless appeal, there are limits, and there are limits to enforcement. So the appeal itself does not delay execution. So, what we've had so far, the procedure, in a brief procedure, may be a civilizational setback, when it comes to the rule of law, and it seems to me that the institute that is proposed and necessary and that there is no need to scare citizens that this means someone delaying the executive procedure indefinitely. I say, the whole law is and the whole institute is very well designed and there are clear deadlines and clear responsibility for all those involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43399	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 74th amendment, MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senić, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Vojislav Vujić, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoltan Pek, Milan Petric, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic and Slobodan Homen together submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43400	I don't have much intention of talking about the adopted amendment. I just want to welcome the work of the People's Assembly's Coconut because I really, for one, think that citizens want to see, whether we're the government or the opposition, that we can agree on some amendments and the necessary changes that are important to this country. In particular, four amendments have been submitted here and I personally support all four and I am glad that there is such a way of functioning the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43401	On behalf of the members and members of the 75th Amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, magistrate of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 76th Amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Đurišić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic, together submitted the title. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 77th Amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Đurišić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic, together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 78th Amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Đurišić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic, together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 79th Amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Đurišić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic, together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 79th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43402	Thank you very much. This amendment, which I submitted to Article 79, was accepted by the government on his position 2. But what's here is the fact that I've been thinking about withdrawing this amendment myself, and formally, because this kind of amendment is not good, so my amendment is not good. First of all, I don't understand the deadline, of course, of 25 days, I don't know who found it or who tried to be innovative. Secondly, this Article 2 begins with potential – if the second-degree court delivers a decision on appeal. The second-degree court can't discuss whether he's going to deliver an answer to the appeal. When the answer is received, he is required to deliver. Therefore, it is not his discretionary right and discretionary authority to determine whether he will deliver or not, but must always deliver, whenever the response to the complaint has been made, and then upon receipt of the response to the appeal or at the expiry of the deadline provided for in the statement of response to the appeal, he decides. So, I wouldn't accept my own amendment myself, because after I made the mistake, but due to the lack of time, I didn't get to withdraw it, it's just not in accordance with any law, it's not in accordance with the Constitution either, but I'm saying, I didn't make it. Well, the government is exactly my amendment, which I personally think should have rejected, because I would have rejected it myself, adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43403	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43404	Thank you. However, I thank my colleague Batic for the amendment. I think she's been given one mistake, interpreting this norm as a general rule. The general rule is defined by Article 79. The bill, which says - the second-degree court rejects, adopts, or rejects the appeal within 15 days of receipt of the appeal, etc. Then in its position of 2nd systematic interpretation of the norm, you realize that attitude 2 defines only the situation when the court adopts the appeal and then sets a deadline for a decision. It is therefore said in point 1 – the second-degree court, either rejects, adopts or rejects the appeal by means of a resolution. You don't expect that if the second-degree court dismissed the appeal, it sends her to answer. This is where you talk about the situation when it is, I know you don't expect it, which is why I think you've made a good amendment. Thank you for that amendment. We heard about it, and that's why we accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43405	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 80th Amendment, the MPs Marko Đurišić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The 80th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and mr. Alexandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 81st Amendment with the correction, together, MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 82nd Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 84th Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment, he submitted a report. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 92th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment, the MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment, the People's MPs Alexander Senić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Vojislav Vujic, mr. Dejan Radenković, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Zoltan Pek, Milan Petric, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, submitted the amendment to Article 105. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 105th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43406	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 105 submitted by the People's MPs of the New Party is one of the six amendments now accepted from a total of ten submitted to these drafts of the law, respected by Mr and Minister Selakovic, it is necessary for me here to say that I am very pleased to say that in the day of voting for the bill, Minister Selakovic, I also vote for our amendments. It is particularly important for me to say that Minister Selakovic, when it comes to discussing these proposals of the law, showed Mr Arsenovic exceptional consistency because what Minister Selakovic's actions on our debate follow his words from our debate in principle. Minister Selakovic said here several times yesterday that we were right, highly esteemed by our efforts, respecting our work. He told me several times you're absolutely right that not some of the things that appear here and what I expected, that the action about the debate in particular follows these comments that we heard on the day we discussed these bill proposals in principle. Dear gentlemen, that's exactly what happened. So we have one absolute consistency when it comes to Mr. Arsenovic, spoken words and done, gentlemen. There was a harmony between words and deeds. I think it's worth one of these words in the National Assembly today for this debate here. I just want to point out to Mr Selakovic that there are two other amendments that have not been accepted, which should be accepted in my court, so I would only ask Minister Selakovic to say in advance whether he is ready to accept those amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43407	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43408	Mr. Chairman, dear Minister Selakovic, thank you for accepting this amendment, because this much theatre and sevap is, as Mr. Babic says, this much theatre, this much joy, this much euphoria, this much happiness deserves to be accepted. The amendment consists of one point or a comma that is so important and has made Mr. Amendment Proposer so happy that I wanted to, looking at him, as cheerful as he is, euphoric as to suggest it, but you've done it before we wanted to recommend you. It's good to make the opposition happy. Good, 'cause not happy in the election, at least to be happy in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43409	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I also join in congratulating a large number of accepted amendments to this political option and I think it's the result of professional work in the National Assembly and of course freezing the department at the Faculty of Political Sciences. However, I have to notice, the great Nikola Makiyaveli said - the child is giving up the father rather than the father's. Our MP, who proposed this amendment, gave up the cathedrals and students, for continuing work in the National Assembly, probably behind some better pay, but did not give up foreign exchange logs, when with college, for example, he travels to Germany...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43411	Don't, don't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43412	I believe that by his own admission, I believe it was a very academic role in inter-faculty co-operation, but the question is, how congratulating it is to take a salary here and there a daily while the MPs here at plus 35 a month ago are sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43413	Thank you. Do not go into the personal questions of individual MPs. I don't think it's correct, it's not allowed. I ask that we take care of it and respect it regardless of the difference of opinion, even the diversity of opinion, I think it's good. Let us not, please, simply beg you as well as my colleague and here as chairman. The word is by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43414	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests and guests, when I travelled to Germany last summer, I traveled there to sign an act on behalf of the university, gentlemen, which ensures that eight students and students of the Faculty of Political Sciences can spend a semester at the University of Constants. I think it deserves a card and a round of applause, gentlemen, not a grudge. Never, when it comes to my engagement, have I received no journal, Mr. Krlić, and I think it is my turn that in our National Assembly, which we call the sanctuary of political life, we are telling the truth, I have not received a diary for this engagement. Second thing, gentlemen, I've decided to keep in the case of this job, here in the National Assembly, and for me, Mr Krlić, here's a salary lower than I had at the Faculty of Political Sciences, along with all the projects-based receipts. I work here for a small salary, gentlemen. Third thing, I thought it was not responsible for one man staying formally in several places and not being able to do all these jobs and I've been here for a few months trying to work parallel to the university with students, and here in the Assembly. Mr Arsenović, I have noticed that I cannot work responsibly in two places, and then I decided to do this job here, as far as possible, unlike SNS MPs, Mr Krlić, among whom there are several of those who perform several public functions, several public jobs, receive more income instead of being responsible for one thing. Mr. Arsenovicu, Mr. Krlić, would like to apologize for what he just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43415	I can't give you a replica, because you challenged it. I don't think I can do that. I've got to give the authorized representative, Zoran Babic, and you've been looking for a possible reason to mention the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43416	It is unnecessary to include persons who are not here in the controversy in the National Assembly. It is unnecessary to include students from the Faculty of Political Sciences and free someone trying to play traffic here, by pointing their hand. I think words are much better, and if I give this kind of criticism, I refer to all those who have used students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, but also all the other students of any university. What I can't and won't say in a decent tone, which I won't allow, is a stone thrown at the SNS, which by decision of the Presidency, by decision of the GO and most important, by decision of the SNS President, Mr Alexander Vukic, has made a decision to ban duplication of functions, public functions on which SNS members are located. I was one of the first to resign as chairman of the Supervisory Board, Transport Enterprise, Lasta, as well as a series of other MPs and other SNS officials who gave up other public functions. Therefore, I intervene in the untruth presented here by Mr Pavicevic, and if, and the apology is sometimes easier and it is not difficult to give an apology, I can in this way apologize to the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, because they were introduced into the debate, unnecessaryly, but I also expect Mr Pavicic, an apology from the SNS for the untruths he has brought here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43417	Thank you. Please, I think that any further debate on this topic that has been started would only lead to even greater tightening and I don't want it, I won't allow it. Please, it doesn't make sense now to translate the debate into personal, private and extracurricular relations. So, please, we're going according to the amendments. First she has the word Olga, first she answered, so I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43418	Thank you. I am the author of my authorized group, and ladies have the advantage. As for this amendment adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will not comment on whether it is a technical amendment, whether it is a score or a point, but any amendment that contributes in a more technical sense to the quality of the provision of any law should be accepted, and sometimes we are in a situation, especially the lawyers know that even one comma can change the meaning of the provision. Besides, there's something called nomotechnics. Nomotechnics have nothing to do with it when someone reports for the amendment, and then comments on someone's profession. So that I don't refer here to any debate, I pray in the future, that anyone who has nothing professional to say about the amendment and comment on the amendment should not speak, he is free even to get out of this room. There are those of us who want to discuss this debate very professionally. I think that such a commentation of any profession that works, whether in a constant relationship or not in a steady working relationship, is extremely humiliating and demeaning the reputation of this National Assembly, rather than already declaring ourselves, who is in a permanent and non-permanent working relationship, so it receives full parliamentary pay, and who, for example, is not in a permanent working relationship, and does more, if not from those who are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43419	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43420	Members 106 and 107, the chairman, I think you've tried and I support you in introducing this session into a normal and professional course, and the SNS will participate in this. None of us here, and we're all grown-ups and reasonable people with certain careers, don't need a teacher or a teacher to teach us when we need to be in the O.R. and when we need to get out of the O.R. Every MP, has the right to submit an amendment to every law, and that is constitutional law and law by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will not be determined by anyone in this room, no matter how much I respect my colleague, but will not determine who may and who must not submit the amendment. On the expert side, if you were to observe, yet that sentence which had just burned my ears, which was – you accepted my amendment, which I would not accept, then also speaks of the personal aspect, but also of the expertise of the one who proposes such an amendment and who has such an amendment has such a relationship. PRESIDENT: I must comment on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have not found myself at all, nor could I recognize in what I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. I reacted in time to all deviations from the normal work of this congregation. So, I don't think he's hurt his rules of procedure, and yours is right, Granny, are we going to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. No, no, no, (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Olgica Batić, from town: Replica. ) The word of the People's Messenger is Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43421	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Selakovic, respected guests and guests from the ministry, the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovicu, were injured by members of both 1,103 and 108. The National Assembly, when you, Mr Arsenovicu, did not now respond to an inappropriate speech by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, which concerned the previous speech of the honourable MP, Olgica Batic. Mr Babic, besides that, Mr Arsenovic, has shown that despite the fact that he heads the largest parliamentary group in our National Assembly, it does not seem to have been sent to the end in procedures concerning the submission of amendments to the draft laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43422	Mr. Pavic's just...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43423	Your duty was, Mr. Arsenovic, to intervene here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43424	No, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43425	Because Mrs. Batic has the right to begin the debate... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43426	Mr. Pavicevic... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place:... and change something. There's an amendment with a correction, gentlemen. He has a right to say something... ) Mr. Pavicevic, I had to, I mean I didn't exclude you, but I had to not allow your further discussion of the breach of the Rules of Procedure which is not the subject of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see at all what I hurt at this point, and in the end, please, each of the MPs has the right to state their opinion, but in a dignified way, not to insult anyone. So, has anyone submitted an amendment, whether it's valid or not? And as long as there's a debate going on within those borders, I don't mind. The moment he's moving on to a personal problem, it's my problem to resolve it. I beg you, let's not divorce the situation now, but simply get back to our obligations here, which is why we are here, and in that sense let's not abuse the Rules of Procedure and replicate. Do you want Pavicevic to plead in the day? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. - Yes, you do. Let's see if anyone else wants a word from the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43427	Thank you. I am advocating Article 106 of the Rules of Procedure before your argument, and I will agree with your argument and comment on the Rules of Procedure, which has been directed by the head of our parliamentary group, and I will ask you to hold the presidency in the course of this debate and to discuss the amendments. Some colleague she reported from after the amendment, and she was talking about a replica. So, a request to go back to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43428	Thank you. That's my suggestion, too. Do you want us to plead? (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: No. No, no, no, (Olgica Batić, from town: Replica. You're not right, Olga. (Olgica Batic, from the place: I am right. On whose display? (Olgica Batić, from the post: Mr Babić. No, no, no, (Olgica Batic, from the place: I do. Wait, Olga, I'll, please, you know very well, I know you know that on the breach of the Rules of Procedure... (Olgica Batic, from the post: You cannot know when Mr. Babic is questioning my expertise. Please, on injury. Ma'am... [[Olgica Batic, from the place: Who caused the replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43429	You're welcome to have two warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43430	Mrs Batic, you know very well that you do not have the right to reply to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you the right to replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Dragan Nikolic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43431	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to have forgotten what amendment it is. The discussion has gone...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43432	To Article 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43433	No, I know, but all of us, I mind and myself, have forgotten that this is an amendment to Article 105, paragraph 1, which was submitted by the esteemed Mr. Pavicevic and the esteemed Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. That amendment, I'll remind the public, has been accepted by the government. I, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, made a very positive statement about the acceptance of the amendment. I said it's very important that this decimal is or is stuck and that it does a lot of work to make this law better. This shows that the more serious objections of this parliamentary group, there is no law on this. If the point, the point and the members of the interpretation are something that is important and important, then it means that the law has been made for these two years, as far as it has been done, in the best possible way at this time for the Republic of Serbia. It's just inappropriate that when you report for the amendment and you want to talk about the amendment, fire some arrows and expect it to be without consequences. I say for the sake of the public of Serbia, and you will allow me one sentence, no one from the SNS parliamentary group performs any more functions. We've all resigned to all other functions. I was a councilman at the City Assembly in Vranj, I was a member of the Management Board of the Pharmacy Institute in Vranj...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43434	Please don't replicate now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43435	I resigned on all that. I'm saying other colleagues did something like that. By doing this job here on these amendments and today as an authorised representative of the SNS, which makes me a great honor, I mean that my profession, my legal profession, has suffered a lot because I am in this assembly. But I'm in this assembly because I want all of us to be better, because I want Serbia to go from day to day...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43436	I beg you, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43437	I'm going back to the amendment. That is why we will adopt all amendments that are like this, which do not change the fundamental law because it is good, but they are going in a good direction and the signs of interpretation, of course, make the law much better and I am grateful to the representatives of the opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43438	You see what only one arrow means when it goes away at one moment and now about an amendment adopted by the government, we've been discussing here for almost 10 minutes, please. So please take care of how you address each other. I mean, everything can be said, but in a dignified way, and I'm really asking you to act like one. In the end, all of you here are malts of non-academia citizens, you have an extraordinary dictionary and I think you can say everything in one decent and good way and be critical and sharp in that sense. I'm sorry for this comment I may not have made, and that's how I violate the Rules of Procedure. Members of the 110th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Đurišić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Home, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic put together the title above members and Article 122 of the amendment. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43439	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, dear colleagues, I don't want to be boring in today's presentation, but I still have to talk about something about the very effectiveness of this law, or the law on enforcement and security. In the previous amendments that we have submitted, we have asked for the effectiveness of eradicating the Institute of Appeal in the executive procedure when there are, of course, executive documents confirmed in the court proceedings, and now we are coming to another institute that can compromise the effectiveness of the proceedings, and this institute comes after the appeal. I would just once again repeat to the public what this procedure really looks like and how pointless the existence of this institute is. So, after the first-degree and second-degree convictions, the emergency legal remedies, after obtaining the status of an executive document from a court decision, we enter the executive procedure. We expect the court to come up with a solution to the execution. This law now allows for another appeal. We've been talking for six more months or a year and when all this is over and the executive procedure confirms the fact that the litigation procedure can really be carried out, that we've exhausted this appeal, we're finally coming to the execution process. Unfortunately, this law provides for another head that can be a stumbling block, i.e. a further delay or a reduction in the efficiency of this executive procedure itself, that is, the law on enforcement and security. Mr. Minister, this is what I was talking about and in the principle debate, you know what this is about. I'm willing to, in fact, generally, my opinion is that this head, the suspension of execution, should not be in law, but let's simplify it and see if you have the understanding to adopt our next three amendments. I accept, let it remain a delay as you suggest, it is a delay on the proposal of the executive trustee, okay, because someone who is a trustee has the right to request to postpone or not delay execution, and even when the agreement is a party to postponement. Once again the executive trustee is asked here, I don't mind, let the execution be delayed, because we have the consent of the trustee who waited so long to collect. We come to Article 122, which is a delay on the proposal of the executive debtor. This executive debtor has owed something for five years, or 10, five years at least since we have a court ruling and we've come to an execution and there's still one reason now, though, you said only once can he request a postponement. I really don't think he should ask for a delay once, because really, after so many years and so many different court cases that have confirmed this decision, we're going to reintroduce an institute that in at least 10 days, five days, a month, will only delay the execution again. I really don't think it should be in the law. There's no point in real life, except that, as the name says, further delays the execution. Here we are talking about Article 122, so the amendment to Article 122. Then the alignment of Articles 124 and 126 with the deletion of Articles 122. Please think about it. You will agree that these are rare situations, but that there is really no need to, after all these proceedings and after the appeal procedure, there is again the possibility of delaying execution, because, believe me, Mr. Minister, next year, when the law comes into force, you will be a minister for four years, your results will be evaluated, and especially the results in the efficiency of the court or executive procedure alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43440	Thank you, Mr. Homen. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43441	Mr. Chairman, the SNS parliamentary group opposes such an amendment. I think he's trying to be a divorceist's idea of a legislator. It's an attempt to discuss something that I think is too high and unnecessary. It's about the institute of delaying execution. The institute has been introduced and represents three entities that can propose a postponement of the execution. It can be done by the trustee himself, by the agreement between the trustee and the debtor and by the debtor himself. The first two entities or entities together can agree and delay execution for some reasons. As regards the delay on the request of the debtors, it is so restrictively stated that it is unnecessary for any amendment to this subject to be made to this Assembly, because that request can only be written once and never again. During all this time, the process operations are carried out. It does not appear anywhere in the law that the application to postpone any procedural action in the execution is prevented and said, of course, because of the public, that the execution may be delayed in that case if the executive debtor makes it likely that the execution would cause him to suffer irreparable or difficult compensation damage, which is greater than the one the executive trustor would suffer for the purpose of the delay and if the delays justify ordering the reasons which the executive debtor proves to be public, or by law, certified by means of a rule of law. It can't be more restrictive than this. The debtor in no way can abuse this norm, and since the law is worth it in one country and is worth it to one nation, then we need to predict one situation that may happen, and the court will take into account in the most restrictive way when deciding whether to allow the debtor to postpone the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43442	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43443	Thank you. I just want to get some more darred undermining and support our amendment. I think it's illogical because he insists on defending the rights of someone who's been sued, who didn't want to carry out his obligation to be sued, that after all the possible appeal deadlines, trials and judgments and times he's been through, you give him the right when something becomes enforceable for payment, that he can appeal again. It's a little illogical. I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think there should be anything like that in the law at all. The one who lost his sentence and who's in debt and who's being sued has no right to complain anymore, because everything he had to say, he said through court proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43444	Thank you. The word is from MP Dragan Nikolic, the authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43445	Well, you have to deal with what you're for. You have amendments against the introduction of an appeal because the appeal will keep the execution, because it will delay it, and now you are making a proposal to delete the amendment, i.e. not to adopt a postponement of the execution on the debtor's proposal. Well, are you to get it done faster or are you to do it slower? In all this speed is not important, because the execution process runs from the beginning to the end and even the complaint does not retain the execution of the execution solution. So the appeal does not retain the execution of the execution solution. All procedural proceedings are ongoing, appeal proceedings are pending, the case goes to a higher court, or to a higher court, or Court of Appeal. This is meant to be some sort of exception, like something that can really happen to a debtor in life. I don't want to mention the morbid situations that would happen at that point, and maybe I should just to explain to you what this is all about. So these are exceptional situations, where the debtor proves to the court that he will suffer irreparable damage, damage that will later be impossible to make up for, and less is a lot of damage the trustee will suffer because of the delay in execution. Therefore, execution will be carried out, but for a certain period of time, under certain conditions, which must be met, which are very restrictive, the court will allow, and perhaps, if it considers that these are not sufficient reasons, it will not allow the execution to be postponed for that particular period. So if it is delayed, it will be determined how many days. It won't be an end to execution, it won't be a disenfranchisement of the trustees, because we're pushing for trustees to collect their claims made on the basis of an executive I.D. or on the basis of a credible I.D. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43446	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43447	Mr. Chairman, I just want to clarify two, three things. A respected colleague as a fellow attorney knows very well that both of these institutes, our proposals go towards speeding up the process, not to slow down. I have no intention of outwitting myself, but I just want to draw attention to one more moment, actually, to be precise, two problems. One, if he stays, this institute creates additional costs of the process. That's where you'll agree. Of course, often you of the debtors cannot charge in any way these claims, so again the trustee will bear the obligation to the public executioner, bear the costs of the proceedings, regardless of the time he loses. The second segment, which is also important, which refers to the procedure itself, i.e. the execution, concerns the purpose of this institute, i.e. general philosophy of the application of the law itself. I don't really agree that it's working on the damages of the debtors, that at all costs it's executed, regardless of the verdict found that he owes money or owes certain rights, but please, it's not the time of socialism anymore, it's not 1978. We need to change the philosophy of thinking. We have to protect people who invest money. We have to protect those who pay taxes. We have to protect our business faces, our legal faces, from that, people, we all live. That's the point, that's our obligation as a Parliament. Of course, it is the court's obligation to apply it in a certain efficient way, appropriate to what is written in the law. I ask you to think carefully about what our perception of this law should be and what kind of country we want to make. Any return to the past won't do us any good, because we saw, we tried, we saw that didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43448	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43449	Very short. So, again, I'm going to repeat my views that I made in the principle debate, but also something that I put out in the opening part, of course, much shorter. In fact, there are life situations where there really is a need for a legal possibility of delaying execution. If nothing else, the series tells us about it, not to tell the series, the newspaper articles about the perpetrator showing up to carry out the execution, that you have an executive debtor who is in a particularly difficult health condition, who did not, for objective reasons, prevent, an opportunity to voluntarily carry out his obligation, and this is firstly directed towards not acting out his obligation. I am convinced that my colleague Homen, just as I am, as each of the people's messengers, is a man in the first place. I have this right-wing understanding, as well as my colleague Homen, that the state needs to ensure the enforcement of a judicial order. This solution is better than the solutions we've had so far where there's no possible delay. Then what do you have? Then you have a citizen's odyssey to the state. As much as every citizen knows as a trustee to say – the state is obliged to allow me to do so, so many 90 percent of citizens are willing to put aside a debtor who is not given the opportunity to do something within a reasonable period of time, and given his objective obstacle. I think we agree on that. Is the delay justified or not? That'll judge the court. I think it's much better that the possibility of a postponement exists, to be derailed when the goal of delaying it is to only delay the obstruction of the executive procedure, but that at the beginning and at the end of all, we must find...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43450	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43451	... I apologize, just to finish the balance between the law and what life is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43452	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43453	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'll agree with you, but it doesn't matter if we're thinking left-handed or right-handed. We're talking about what's best for the state, what you as a minister are obliged to provide. Is that popular in public or not? Of course, all citizens will side with the executive debtor, but it doesn't matter to the government, to parliament what's popular, it matters what's good for the state. I guess it's important to us that the state works. What I still wanted to add, and as far as the reasons for the delay are concerned, I completely agree with you that, if it's a difficult state of health, there should be a delay, I don't mind, but it should be written in law. This is how when it is written in general and when the court decides, everyone will apply for a postponement. I mean, the Institute won't be used for what you just said, but it could be the subject of abuse. Each executive debtor will try to apply for a stay, as it will buy at least 70 days. On the other hand, there's no argument of yours that he didn't know or couldn't know that he owed it. Gentlemen, we're talking about something after the trial, after four, three, five years, it doesn't matter how much. So he also knew that one minute he had to pay, and as the various stages of the process progressed, he knew that the time was narrowing down, that he would have to pay or not. I just want to tell you one more thing, and that's what my colleague said the appeal didn't delay the execution. Please, Mr. Minister, pay attention to one thing. It is a problem in practice that you know well, and when the complaint is lodged, any legal remedy that does not delay execution, the court is doing the following way in which all files, cases are sent to the second degree or by appeal or by appeal. Please, there's a law. He says the files are being copied so the executive procedure can continue. Please, again, you can't do this as a minister of justice or you might be able to do it in your jurisdiction, but as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary certainly, to make sure that this institute is not being abused, that the law is being respected. So if it doesn't delay, it really doesn't delay, not to formally avoid it in a way – sorry, but the files are sent to a higher court, so now we can't act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43454	Thank you. Members of the 124th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted the amendment to Article 124. Thank you. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Thank you. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Thank you. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. Members of the 127th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Vojislav Vujić, Dejan Radenković, Vladimir Marinković, Zoltan Pek, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 131st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. Members of the 133th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43455	Thank you. So, following the course of the debate so far, I am now not addressing my colleagues as much as the public, because it seems to me that there is an unnecessary confusion about whether, after years of court proceedings, a verdict is made, or a decision taken after the end of this procedure, there is a logic to be refuted or not. When it comes to the legal medicines involved in the enforcement process, they are concerned with the similarities and the correctness to carry out the execution on the basis of it, the executive order itself is not disputed. It is realistic to imagine in life the situation when the claim in the meantime ceased to exist for various reasons: due to fulfillment, because of obsolescence, etc. In this respect, it is necessary to provide the executive debtor with the possibility, not to challenge the verdict made in the litigation procedure itself, for example, but to challenge the possibility of the trustee to settle such a judgment. I think there was still a need to predict the suspension of the legal drug. I understand the government's definition of primacy to put on the efficiency of the procedure, but I really think that in a situation where it would insist on respecting the law of the prescribed deadlines, which are relatively short, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, on the responsibilities of those who should respect these deadlines that the appeal procedure itself would not necessarily be extended, and in order to contribute to a certain degree of legal certainty which would be greater in relation to the proposed government's solution. I really think that in some situations, and this experience teaches us, because when we want to achieve the effectiveness of post-poto we get this, as I would say, not to use the hard words, the stupid law on enforcement that is currently in force, where it was eventually pursued for efficiency at the expense and legal logic and many principles of legal practice that have been created decades ago. So, I think that in some situations, if the complaint did not have a suspension fact, there would be damage that could not be compensated, regardless of the possibility of an execution, or the return of what was baselessly charged. Some 30-day period, as far as the appeal procedure would further extend the executive procedure would not mean too much, and we would get legal certainty, not only for the executive debtor, so that very often today, during this debate, the legal certainty of both parties in the executive procedure and third parties is wrongly insisted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43456	National MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted the amendment to Article 133. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 135th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, together submitted to Article 141 of the amendment. The word has a National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43457	I filed the amendment to Article 141 on behalf of the Turnover Movement, in which I asked that the perpetrators would not be able to implement the weekend and the state holiday unless they had the court president's permission to do so. In view of Mr Selakovic, that you accepted the amendments of the Economic Cocus and that only their amendments had an open door with you, and not the amendments of opposition parties, movements, I do not expect you to accept this amendment, but I will tell you what they mean for the citizens. It means that the perpetrators, given that those over whom execution should be carried out are usually home on Saturdays and Sundays, gathers family, they come to execution, to realize the execution on Saturdays and Sundays, national holidays, Easters, Christmass, etc. So you left discretionary rights to the perpetrators that when they estimate that circumstances allow it, the one over whom execution should be executed avoids obligations, and who will judge it? An executor, who aims to achieve as much execution as possible and to charge as much commission as possible. You had to give some reference to give people permission to enter the apartment on Saturdays, Sundays and state holidays. That's why this member, this attitude of the law, is harmful to the citizens, and it's bad that you didn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43458	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43459	Mr. Chairman, Rule 107 has been injured. I don't know what Honorable colleague Vesenovic has against the coconut, whether he feels guilty about the efficiency of the coconut, the co-operation he has and because the coconut represents a group of MPs who are both from the government and the opposition. I don't know why he's bothered with this dialogue that's being conducted here in parliament. On the other hand, I will leave this "Grist", I don't know what "Grist" means, but I don't want it to remain unsaid, fourteen amendments as accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, four amendments are cocus, the other ten amendments are, I think four distinguished colleagues Mr Pavicevic and Mr Zivkovic, Mr Batic, the amendment of the DS MPs. So there's not one very malicious claim that only the amendments to the cocus are accepted. So because of the truth, and I think we all have to be guided by the truth here in the National Assembly, I must say that Mr. Veselinović's claims are deliberate, malicious and false when it comes to amendments accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Please record this for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43460	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I have already tried several times to explain to Mr Veselinovic that MPs have signed the amendments and that amendments have been handed over by MPs gathered around the Economic Cocus and that it cannot be the same as when someone signed with the movement. But it's not worth it, Mr. Granny. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43461	You've injured lan 27 and member 107, Mr. Chairman. So here today it's been said more than once that an amendment to the coconut has been accepted. There's no cocus in the National Assembly. You had to react to that. How did you get the coconut into the National Assembly? How did you get him in? According to which member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, have you made it possible for the minister and MPs today to say that it is an amendment to the coconut and that the amendment to the coconut has been accepted? Who's the coconut? Is there a word "cocus" in the Serbian dictionary? What's a coconut? It is against the interests of the Serbian citizens, to be clear. But how do you allow a session of the National Assembly to talk about a body that cannot be submitted to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43462	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. If you'd listened carefully, you'd understand what I said. Amendments are made by the messengers of the people, and signed by the messengers of the people. And these amendments were signed by a group of MPs gathered in the Economic Cocus, as they want to say and want to play. That's completely legitimate. It may not be legitimate if someone is signed as a MP with a movement that has not been in the elections and has not entered the National Assembly. So much for that, Mr. Veselinovic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43463	Mr. Chairman, Article 108. I don't understand the noise in the National Assembly, I don't understand Mr. Veseinovic's anxiety, but again for the sake of the truth, the Economic Cocus is an informal parliamentary group made up of MPs from both the government and the opposition, just like the informal Group of the Green MPs. In the Green Parliamentary Group, the honourable colleague, Veselinovic, is a member. You know, when there is a Green Parliament group that also doesn't have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which Mr. Veseinovic participates, then it's okay. That's when he can do it. At that time, the group can also propose a bill, and that is fine, I support, but don't humiliate any other MPs with a common head of the economy. The Green Parliament Group is a conservation of the environment. There are parliamentary groups working intensively to fight corruption. There are parliamentary groups, that is, these informal parliamentary groups that deal only with energy and that is good. It's good when there's a dialogue in the National Assembly, but if you're a participant in one and you insult the other, it's disdaining the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Becic, intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43464	I thank Mr. Babic. As I say, I have already tried several times to explain to Mr Veselinovic that there are MPs and MPs are submitting amendments. The democratic right of MPs is to gather in informal parliamentary groups, such as the Women's Network, such as the Greens, such as the Economic Cocuss. It is the democratic right of all MPs. We can talk about whether we can sign amendments with some movement... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Who asks you that. Come down and talk. ) Mr. Veselinović, please, I have the right and the obligation to explain Mr. Babic's question and to report to the Rules of Procedure. If you do not like that answer, you can contact the Rules of Procedure. It is my duty and obligation to explain to Mr Babic why I did not respond to your exposure. Is it even right that someone is signing a movement that didn't participate in the election? Mr. Babic, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43465	A member of 107 of the previous speaker was injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43466	Mr. Veselinović, that member has already been quoted. You must call on another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43467	So, right now in the discussion, Mr Babic's Business Report was injured by article 107. So he hurt the dignity of the National Assembly and told the lie. The Green Parliamentary Group has never submitted any amendments, nor has it proposed any law unlike the Economic Cocuss that regularly tables amendments passing in this National Assembly. So the role is quite different, and the MPs and citizens of Serbia need to know. We have never submitted any amendments, nor have we submitted the bill. Why? Well, because the Economic Cocus has a special role to play in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43468	I am sorry, Mr. Veselinovic, that you have something against the ladies in our National Assembly, since we also have the fact that the Women's Parliamentary Network and our MPs gathered in the Women's Parliamentary Network are submitting amendments. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (No) Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43469	You've injured Article 27, but you've injured Article 107 again. You said I had something against the ladies. I never said a word to a lady in the National Assembly, nor did I mention that group of MPs. I only mentioned an economic cocus that has a special treatment, and don't say what I didn't say. Don't tell the truth, don't say the right Serbian word. This is what Serbian citizens are looking at.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43470	Mr. Veselinovicu, you're right, this is what Serbian citizens are watching. They also watch when you yell at the National Assembly. I'm trying to be a tolerance and give you information and not hear the lies in the National Assembly. As the Women's Parliamentary Network and MPs gathered in the Women's Parliamentary Network, as the amendments have been submitted, so has the amendments to the Economic Cocus, so has the right to submit amendments to any group of MPs agreeing on a subject together, appear in some area. I only said that, I gave full information for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for all MPs, and for being angry and for being denied, there is nothing I can do to help you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic. It's a business thing. Excuse me, Mr. Minister. Mr. Markovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43471	I thank the chairman. Many members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, but this time I advertise Article 105 that no one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word about the president of the National Assembly. Because of the vulgar throw that the previous speaker did, when he said – who asked you, so he spoke to you, I understand your tolerance and support your tolerance when it comes to an independent MP, but this is simply unacceptable. On the other hand, I can't understand the attack on the Economic Cocus, but let's be precise and get this over with. Kokus, the definition is – the association of members of congress grouping themselves according to common opinions, attitudes and principles. So, the MPs' association. Here, I propose one practical way to solve this problem, since there are experts in this House for Citizens' Associations, let them advise Mr. Veseinovic on how it is brought together by MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43472	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You have to understand, Mr. Veselinovic has objections to the work of the chairman, but I leave Serbia's citizens to assess the work of every MP in the National Assembly. Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43473	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would return to the text of the amendment. First of all, it's interesting that the amendment promoter himself voted only a few years ago for an identical text that defines the time of execution, then it was an excellent law, then it was a reform law... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I did not. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43474	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43475	If the promoter did not vote at the time, and he was heartily in favour of the government's policy and that promoter and he had nothing to do with it. But despite keeping two-thirds of the text of the member at the time, it is in the existing law of Article 71, we are returning the institution of disposal, and if an executioner has actually shown up to carry out the execution at an awkward time, that person may request a stay of execution. We were just listening to the debates that went the other way. We have provided the opportunity here for those who are safe and honest and honest in debt to delay execution whenever it is scheduled to be carried out. Here, however, the law must also reflect on that debtor who is not safe, the debtor who wants to avoid fulfilling the obligation, the debtor who wants to ignore the executive or credible correction whose execution is required. I think that the sowing of some panic in the way that the perpetrators of people are going to get into family celebrations, the holiday celebration that they're going to look at every possible way to get their people to say -- rip the skin off their backs, is something that doesn't go in favor of anyone and nothing. Give us statistics on how many times this happened by applying identical provisions over the course of these two and a half years, or three and a half years, and then we can talk about facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43476	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43477	Thank you, Chairman. I picked up the last amendment, but it doesn't matter. As regards this article, 141., it regulates the time of execution, and so it is – that the execution is carried out every day from 7.00 to 22.00 hours so that it can be carried out outside that time if the executive debtor avoids the fulfilment of the obligation or when it is specifically justified reasons and of course that the organisation which is provided for in its third position this same Article 141 for the compulsory payment of the execution of the execution on the financial assets of the executive debtor every working day from 9,00 to 16,00 hours and here we have just heard that such a solution is actually, in fact, almost two-thirds of the still valid Law on execution and security. If the 2004 Executive Procedure Act is reviewed, it is far better than the current law and has regulated the matter in question. In fact, it was in the attitude of the 1st letter – that the execution is carried out on a working day, from seven to 20 hours, far more celebular, and in attitude 2 is particularly regulated when it cannot be carried out on unworkable days or nights, it can but only if there is a risk of delaying what the court decides to conclude. Why do I mention this law on executive procedure that stopped working? Because many solutions to this bill do not know whether, by chance or by purpose, the solutions of the 2004 Executive Procedure Act are identical. I'm saying, it's far better and perhaps since I've come forward under the previous amendment, but I don't know how you didn't see me answer for the word, I think it would be appropriate to adopt an amendment to Article 141 which has been submitted by colleagues from the DS because they are predicting execution, different execution in terms of the time of execution, whether it's seven to 20 hours, or at least one compromise position should have been taken between this amendment that we are discussing and the previous amendment, so that possibly the Justice Committee will submit solutions that would be better than the proposed one. I repeat, the same can be copied from the 2004 Implementing Procedure Act because many of the provisions of this law or certain views of the members of this bill have just been taken, in the same way as the 2004 Executive Procedure Act, and I responsibly argue that I have read and compared absolutely every member and absolutely every position between the law that has ceased to apply and between the bill that we are discussing today in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43478	I thank you, Miss Batic. I wouldn't have reacted if you hadn't repeated it twice. You answered the moment I read Mr. Veseinovic's amendment and half a second before Mr. Veselinović, you answered, because I took a close look and said that the applicant had the advantage of the amendment. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic, following this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43479	Mr. Chairman, the SNS parliamentary group suggests that this amendment should not be adopted and I order the debtors to pay their debts within the deadline. So, within the time period that comes after the decision, on which they are obliged to pay, do, endure and what is written in that judgment, if executed within that period, these situations will not occur. To give such compensation to the debtor, which is foreseen by this amendment to a respected colleague, that it cannot be executed for the weekend and that it cannot be worked after 22:00 to 07:00 in the morning. Well, do you know what's going on in practice? The debtor who wants to run, not to pay, the debtor can't see him. He comes in after 10:00, goes to bed, sleeps, wakes up before 7:00 and leaves his house. There comes an executive worker, or now a public contractor, asks for him, and the locals say -- he's not here, he's gone to work, we can't find him. The weekend to leave him so that he can spend his moments calmly within his family, to owe at that time and someone who may have been cheated or otherwise come to cash, to enjoy his family, and that the trustee there cries and complains on Saturdays and Sundays, I don't think it's appropriate. The debtor should be threatened that he is not safe in any place in Serbia, not at any time, if he is obviously avoiding an executive worker, or now a public executive. That is the essence of this member and that member, according to us from the Serbian Progressive Party, must remain part of the law and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43480	Thank you. The words have a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43481	Thank you. I'll be brief, since I've already reported on this amendment. I just missed one important thing to say. When the arguments from which an amendment is not accepted, as well as from which the amendment is accepted, I think it would be good that there are absolutely no errors in such arguments, which is not the case today. A team before this article 141 provides for a time of implementation from 07:00 to 22:00, and the arguments given for the reasons why the amendment is not accepted see that it is not just here unarranged, it is also wrong on the subject of the previous amendment. Then the government admits that the amendment is not accepted, because in practice it happens that within the range of 07:00 to 22:00 hours, the executive debtor avoids contact. Then I don't understand anything. Is he avoiding from 07:00 to 22:00 or after? Then let's introduce a 0-24 hours so the execution can be conducted. I think it would be a special emergency for the execution and that would make them the most expedient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43482	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43483	Just one sentence. Well, that's exactly what we're introducing, 00:00-24 hours every day, no holidays, no weekends, can be chased by an escaped debtor who avoids the payment of what's due. That's what we say hello and that's what we want. It's obvious that a public contractor can find out that someone is avoiding him, if he visits that address multiple times, and he's gone, and I think every city already knows the officials on duty. This is not good for them and it's not good for you to defend them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43484	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43485	Respecting a respected colleague, I'm not sure I've heard well - it's not good to defend them. I'm not defending anyone. I'm no one's defender, especially in practice. Outside this room, yes, I'm sure not, but I guess everyone has a right to their stand, so anyone can make their stand. It wasn't, like, my oral proposal from 10:00 to 24 hours, but apparently it wasn't accepted, since the Justice Department said from 07:00 to 22:00. I merely suggested that in all the parts of this bill, where a copy-paisy method was done regarding the 2004 Executive Procedure Act, everything that could have been done absolutely in the same way. A team before being criticised is still in force of the law on enforcement and security where absolutely, as we heard, almost nothing was right. That's it, I'm not defending the perpetrators. I agree with what's intensities, but you'll admit that the debate is about whether someone thinks it's enough time to carry out it from 07:00 to 22:00 or from 07:00 to 00:00, and I'm more prone to this second solution, I think it's really unnecessary, and everyone of course has the right to their professional position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43486	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43487	I'm going to rely on what my colleague Batic said. There's no one here to defend those boasters who don't want to meet their obligations. For example, ester stars, football players and some other people who have money and don't want to pay, or politicians, say, who don't want to pay for electricity, etc. No one's defending them. On the other hand, I have spoken several times when it comes to the collection of fiscal obligations that those persons should be brought to justice in the sense that debt should be charged from them. It is this Article 142 and the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the Turnover Movement, Mr Selakovic, that concerns the most endangered. It concerns children, underage children who should be protected from any harassment during execution. This amendment clearly states – If only minor members of his household are present in the apartment or other premises of the executive debtor, the public executioner is required to refrain from any kind of harassment and will delay the conduct of the executive operations while leaving the notice in the mailbox or at the front door. You should have taken this into account and less reading and considering what the Economic Cocus wrote. They write what is in the interest of judicial perpetrators, or private perpetrators, rather than what is in the interest of Serbian citizens, Mr Selakovic. I'm surprised you didn't accept any of the amendments I submitted. I'd say it's not your decision, but maybe it's some higher SNS interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43488	Time, thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43489	Thank you. In this case, of course, I do not agree on the very content of the amendments with my colleague Veselinović, since I think it could have been legally more skilled to do so, but I agree with what is really his intensity, which is exactly the protection of those executive debtors, not those tycoons from which the state cannot be charged, or which allows it not to settle its claims from companies, businesses, etc., but is precisely a protection for those executive debtors who have either the lowest incomes and very small pensions or the lowest earnings. Imagine, for example, now this paradox, and in the context of absolutely this amendment, introducing a tax on the Media Public Service.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43490	Miss Batic, I just have to warn you that you have spent all the time you have as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43491	I'll use the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43492	You'll use time. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43493	Thank you. Imagine now introducing a tax as a credible correction, it becomes executive and comes to the executioner on weekend pensioner who has a pension of 12,000 dinars. One who owes a million and 200,000 euros, for example, will probably not be applied to it, will not be found, will be agreed with the executioner whatever is not implemented. So they should consider the interests of people with the lowest incomes, with minimum salaries and minimum pensions. It is not correct and it is not right for a pensioner before 22, who has a pension of 12,000 dinars, to come to a court executive with a credible ID where he did not pay, imagine, a public service fee. Imagine this public service fee being ten dinars, e.g. It doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43494	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43495	If the perpetrator behaves arrogantly, it is the basis for his disciplinary responsibility, on the one hand, and we have already punished the perpetrators for it. On the occasion of the words which, of course, I love and when they are heard and spoken, I will only say one sentence – where we are fortunate to have learned from our pensioners the payment of the obligations we make. If someone regularly pays for everything in Serbia, they are Serbian pensioners. You can see that by the way they settle their obligations, you can see that it's a category of population that always takes care of the state first and then takes care of itself personally. I don't know if anyone got in after 22 hours of retirement with a pension of 12,000 dinars to take his stuff away. My colleague Batic didn't say that, she said worse than that. As I must take advantage of the opportunity, because just before I had no right to do so, I have not said a single word since the beginning of this debate until this moment I have mentioned the words "Economic Cocus", and I am told that I have said it, nor have I seen those words written among the amendment's promoters anywhere. I see for the first time in our parliamentary practice that amendment applicants are members of different parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they belong to the government or to the opposition, which is a major advance for Serbian parliamentaryism, which is for every praise. If the perpetrator behaves arrogantly, he will be disciplined, and he will respond, even in a situation to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43496	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43497	Thank you. Of course, the proposed amendment should not be accepted, precisely because the members of 493 continued to be resolved by the powers and duties of public enforcement officers, and it is certainly one of the basic duties of public enforcement officers to treat the person of the executive debtor with due regard, as well as members of his household. This is regulated in Article 142(1) of the proposed law. Also, what I must mention, what is absolutely not in doubt and what must be taken into account, is the protection of minors, but of course, the protection of minors is not regulated by this law but by some other laws, and the law on enforcement and security is in agreement and in accordance with all other laws governing the protection of minors. These are all reasons why this amendment is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43498	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43499	I thank you, Chairman. I'm using the time of the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Of course, when the insensitive social categories are mentioned, but when the categories of the population that the minister said really have one extremely zealous relationship with the obligations that burden them, it is interesting not to mention anything else here at all, which is not only legal, but also politically very important to point out. Which is why it doesn't point to a problem that's been in existence for a long time, and it hasn't been systemically solved, especially at a time when it could have been systemically solved since 2000 and back here? That's the problem when we have executives that shouldn't be executives in the executive procedure at all. When we have judgments made on the basis of recognitions to launder money, when we have judgments passed through the form of judicial alignment that has the power of an executive court decision, yet there is a cover-up that implies an absolutely inappropriate way of regulating a debt-trust relationship in which more machinations are made than a debt-trust problem is solved. Such and judgments and decisions should in no way be executive documents. But unfortunately, the system solution isn't that because it's not the executive judge who's going to engage in whether or not the decision has been made by machinations. It's determined in another way. However, I have not seen here since any amendment promoter react to one such phenomenon that exists back over two decades, perhaps significantly longer, and we are talking about how we would behave and how public executioners should behave. We in the SPS parliamentary group are also aware of the sensitivity of these issues and these problems. We absolutely support the concept that any public executioner acting contrary to what is prescribed by law within the limits of its powers, which is contrary to the code of conduct, which is contrary to any rule, is severely sanctioned. My colleagues may also give examples of such conduct by public executioners. That's why we're passing the law to sort of warn those phenomena and sanction the very ones who generate these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43500	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43501	Namely, when I spoke to my presentation and my vision of the proposed solution in this amendment, the minister, speaking to me and to what I said, spoke about the Economic Cocuss. I didn't mention the economic cocus anywhere, but it looked back on the presentation of some former MPs. On the other hand, I didn't say anything about public executioners being arrogant. Get the stenographic notes. I don't know if the minister didn't want to or didn't want to hear what I said. Secondly, there is something that has been very controversially concluded by the minister. He's actually telling me here that, I don't know, pensioners are the poorest and that we should learn from them. You see, I agree, except that I didn't talk about it at all, so I don't know where you're coming from with the conclusion that you're saying something like that. What I have to say is, no one here should defend pensioners from me, I defend them pro bono outside of this courtroom, in execution proceedings, and where executions are made against pensioners who are executive debtors, imagine, funerals and their pensions. If someone doesn't understand, I can give the number of cases I'm handling pro bono in front of different courts, so you'll see what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43502	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 148. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43503	Minister, about the Economic Couscous. One of the MPs thanked you for accepting the amendments to the Economic Cocussa, so we can take your congruent actions under that duress. But you didn't say that word, I agree, that way, directly, but you did get thanks for accepting the amendments to the Economic Cocuss. On the other hand, when it comes to the amendment to Article 148, my proposal on behalf of the PRECRET Movement is to delete attitude two, which sets the time limit for objecting to irregularities that were during the execution process, the failure of this deadline which in some ways is too inclusive. The party loses the possibility of objecting and in some ways restricts the possibility to point to the irregularities that were during the executive procedure. My proposal was to delete that deadline. It is possible that the deadline should be extended or that there is simply no time limit for such an objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43504	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 149. Thank you. The 151st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. Members of the 152nd amendment include the mid-term MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. The 156th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. The 157th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. On behalf of Article 172 and Article 172 of the amendment, MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic put together. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43505	I would like to accept the amendment and raise this percentage that Mr Pavicevic brings to us and we commend his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43506	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Are you happy, Mr. Pavicevic? Thank you. Members of the 200th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. The 204th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 207th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 209th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. Members of the 210th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. Members of the 213rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Members of the 215th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The 237th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43507	I thank the Honorable Chairman. This amendment has drawn me to something that should be pointed out when it comes to the provisions of the law on enforcement and security, and it concerns immovableities as an object and means of enforcement. We are witnesses in the case law of a kind of least said – abuses. Because something that is clearly being eradicated by the provisions of this law has been resolved systematically so far, and that is that immovableities are being evaluated in a very inadequate way. We know that in the public bidding process compared to the market value of immovableity, the first bidding price is 60% of the estimated value. If no one comes to that bidding and no one buys real estate at that price, then at the second auction the price is significantly lower, it is 30% of the market value, i.e. the estimated value. For these 30%, many, from the tycoon, are waiting for a variety of mechanics of all those who would purchase the property of the executive debtor literally "bud for what". In this way, it is doubtless that there is damage to the executive debtor most said is not fair, and on the other hand those who buy, and even the agencies are involved in this, later and the same immovableities that they buy at extremely low prices resell at far higher prices. It is, therefore, one manipulation that does not question the need to consider systemic new solutions in terms of or to impose sanctions or introduce a legal figure at a certain stage of enforcement that is linked to public sales. This may be an objection, as we see now, and an appeal which the SPS parliamentary group is heartily supporting. In future changes and changes, since we have now routed the road to enforcement and security in one quality way, we Socialists expect this anomaly to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43508	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. The 254th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Thank you. The amendment with the correction was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, to Article 258. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43509	Chairman, I will also use my five minutes as an amendment speaker. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this time I speak directly to the citizens of Serbia, this is a key part of the law on enforcement and security, and this is what affects or affects half of Serbia's citizens. It's about the percentage that can be covered by the salary, pension, disability of the person she's receiving. You suggested that the subject of execution could be paid to her two-thirds. Mr. Selakovic, what will this man live on if he only has one third of his salary left? Mr Selakovicu, this is past parallel practice in civilised countries, such provisions have certain countries such as Macedonia and Bulgaria, and why you see yourself as the worst. What is Mr. Selakovic going to live on for a man with one-third of his salary, pensions, disability? He can't live, and it is a social issue, a legal issue, a subject in the field of humanity, humanity, whatever you want. If you want a man to repay his debt, or through the execution of a debt, forced, you must enable him to survive during that period. This way you don't let him do it. In theory, there's a possibility that he might survive with one third of his salary, but I'm asking you how? How can someone survive with 10,000 dinars if his salary is 30,000 dinars? Or with 15 thousand dinars if his salary is 45,000 dinars? It wasn't him, Mr. Selakovic, because of the whim that stopped paying the bill for the heating, for the water, for the electricity, that's the least of those people. So among those who don't pay, there are boastful ones, but those over whom they will be executed, over whom the perpetrators will put their paws and make it impossible to pay their wages, there are many of them pensioners, people with small profits, etc. On behalf of the Turnover Movement, I have suggested, and this is an amendment, that for those who receive a salary equal to or less than the lowest net salary can only be made in a quarter, which is Mr Selakovic's salary of 21,000, 6 thousand. So he's got 15 grand left to survive. How will he survive, we don't know? But, well, that's a lot for him, too. If you are responsible, if you are socially responsible, you will accept this amendment. Talk to Mr. Vukic, say that many citizens will get into trouble, if you haven't already talked, that many citizens won't be able to survive because their salaries and pensions will be occupied by Infostan in Belgrade, Informatics in Novi Sad or, I don't know who, in Nis, in another city. You know what utility prices are, and you know what wages are like in Serbia? So it's not about tycoons. They're getting paid, you know how. They have their own gray funds. These people don't have any more funds, Mr. Selakovic. Which is why you rejected this amendment, when he's reasonable, when he allows man to survive and carry out an obligation he couldn't carry out because he didn't have. Accept the amendment to the Turnover. It is only possible because of those 100,000 family members who are in debt and have loans in Swiss, who have loans in euro, who cannot survive their salary, because the burden on their salary is more than 2/3. Mr. Selakovic, this is a very, very serious topic. From your decision, whether you accept this amendment or not depends on fate and whether they will have to eat hundreds of thousands of citizens in Serbia, hundreds of thousands of citizens in Serbia are unable to pay for municipal services. No, Mr. Selakovic. You know that. You know that, Mr. Selakovic, and therefore accept this amendment, act humanely, act like a man, not someone who represents some inconclusive interests. So accept this amendment so that people can settle their obligations and continue to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43510	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43511	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a real concern for citizens when you lower the unemployment rate from 25% to 18%, and when you reduce it to below 15% by government policy in the coming years. The real concern for citizens is when criminal privatisation is not destroyed by the Serbian economy, but the economy rises on its feet and builds. And it is hypocritical, when it criticises some provision of the law that was passed by the parliamentary majority to which it belonged, or supported by the one who criticises it today. It's a provision that's been prescribed from the applicable law on enforcement and security, now it's Article 148. Although a solution is already being attacked, unless someone is aiming at spreading panic, it is correct to quote the whole member and say that when it comes to minimum earnings that this restriction is not implemented on 2/3 but on one half, which is the solution that was taken from the 2004 Law on the executive procedure, which is the solution previously taken from the 2000 Executive Procedure Act, which was kept from the former Law of 1978. It's called legal certainty, it's called legal predictability, and it's also called something that follows the legal tradition in our executive procedure that's decades old. We're not the government that's been looking at everything since the moment we arrive at functions, we're looking at it from a much wider angle, and looking at it from a much wider angle means having a successful power, like this one is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43512	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43513	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. If it wasn't for political hypocrisis, not to say demagogy, by locking behind the social status of a particular population circle, I certainly wouldn't have come forward on this amendment. But when the gentlemen who propose this amendment did not set up a system solution in 2011, which they are now being called upon, and could, when this is not done, be significantly earlier in the Implementing Procedure Act, about eight, or nine years before that, and in 2000, the question arises – what does this mean now to call on socially sensitive categories, which even then existed. What changed something in society, we had pensioners then, people with very small incomes, as is said to have them now. Where's that metamorphosis? On the other hand, there's something that's being avoided here on purpose, or on purpose. Those who form debts of a few million dinars, and during that time magically in the Office of Real Estates, have nothing of property, house, business space, or anything else, have been reported, have profits. Is it moral for them to establish a ban on just 1/3? So you, which generates all the problems associated with the state and the state apparatus, generates problems that are in the loss of "Srbigas", that are in the loss of EPS, that all those who charge for those claims that could be charged. Why doesn't someone call in those categories when they're proposing amendments like this? In any case, that solution taken from the 2011 Implementation Act should remain, because that is the only way that there is a possibility until the full consolidation of the financial situation in the country, where we are on a very good path, where the economy is completely not revitalised, remains the only system solution that allows the executive safeguards to be put into place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43514	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: And without the Rules of Procedure, can withdraw the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43515	I am asking the chairman, before advertising this attitude to tell Mr. Babic not to throw it away while I try to advertise the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. So, it is said that this amendment is a product of hypocrisis, and Mr Selakovic said that he is a product of hypocrisy, calling for 2011 and asking me questions, which is why I didn't suggest something then... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43516	Mr. Veselinovic, I will not allow you to abuse the Rules of Procedure. By reporting to the Rules of Procedure, you are replicating Mr. Minister or Mr. Babic. You have to understand that, you have the first objection to my presidency and then you have to respect it, so that I can respect you. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43517	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think an amendment like this should be accepted. This is where a fake picture is created that the state is the only one who trusts and that those who have the lowest incomes are the only debtors. There's a private debt, there's a debt out of business, there's a duty to do business. Does anyone have any idea how many of these uncharging debts due to a poor regulation burden Serbia's economy, how much they burden its efficiency, how many people have lost their jobs because of the various mixers in the economy, and because of a very bad regulation, how these debts are charged, and they exist. We can always find examples of how it's difficult for someone to carry out their duties. I ask the question, where the state is not a trustee – how did these debts come to be? Was there any intention of those debts ever coming back? What about the money from those debts? How's it spent? Will you, amendment-makers, ask you to go to the real sector to get your employers to take out lists of non-refundable claims because they have poor legislation, to show you how much they had to fire workers because they were deceived? To lose more than one demagogy, the law is something that puts no one in a privileged position but regulates one area, puts both creditors and debtors in an equal relationship, a trustee to get his resources, a debtor to have to carry out his own obligation, no one here has forced anyone to do things. If MPs are put on only one side, then I ask them – is it purely political interests, a political demagogy or a desire to really help? But their desire to help is based on which group is larger and on that name that group to talk whether they do harm or not, which is why I think these amendments should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43518	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 258. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Master Zlata Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43519	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, without any political or hypocrisis or demagogy, I am one of the MPs who sat in this room in 2011 when the law was passed and I was then an MP of the opposition. I had the same attitude I made today. I support everything that's been brought out so far. So, I had the same attitude that I represent, and now with this amendment that I have proposed to execute on a salary or salary, wages and pension fees, that is, salaries and pensions can be applied to half of the salary, wages, salaries and pensions, and not being placed on either side, simply so that this difficult period can be better and more flexible. It's certainly not easy for trustees to collect their claims. We're aware of what kind of problem this is giving birth to in this society, but half and half of it is the same risk on both sides, and I think this would be a good solution until society has some firmer and more efficient policy of charging claims. In any case, I say, I am one of those MPs who represented this position in 2011 at the time from the opposition benches, but I respect all the claims made so far, and even what my amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43520	Thank you. The word has Nikola Selakovic, minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43521	Very briefly, therefore, I respect the work and respected predecessors as a People's MP and principledness, of course, in this case. I'd only draw attention to one thing here. There was a question about two-thirds earlier. How come it doesn't occur to anyone how much we have for single mothers divorced for unpaid alimony that irresponsible fathers don't pay for? Is it justified in that case to execute two-thirds of the profits or not? It certainly is to me. Here it really is about a contained one formulation that has already existed. We can judge in one way or another, always and in the end as hard as it may be, the cheapest thing to pay back is the debt, and the hardest thing for someone is to be in charge. This law, like many others, should aim to give people good thought before they are in charge, to think twice before they take a commitment, especially if they are in a position to know when they are in charge, that they know that they will not be able to return it. So every law aims to introduce legal predictability, order and discipline in the lives of citizens, as well as this provision, to defend such a provision is not easy, but that is why the law is equal to each one. So, you'll always find the kind of claim that we'll be able to claim -- if you see, here it may be inhumane to do it this way, but on this one we'll find two, three or five of those that this is and how justified. In my opinion, this solution is good, it sets out the category of person with the lowest profits. He also respects the approach of this amendment when it comes to those with higher incomes than that, it's two-thirds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43522	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Mr. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43523	Dear Minister, you have truly pleasantly surprised me with this suggestion, and this should be a suggestion first and foremost in seeking a solution to the payment of debt to single parents, which are a particularly sensitive category in this society, and perhaps could have been one of the solutions and a legal proposal just as such claims are referred to in a very strict and principled way to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43524	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Markovic and Jovanovic. I'm now taking a break up to 14:30 a.m. for 20 minutes. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Is anyone answering this amendment? (No) I thank you. Members of the 270th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Both MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic submitted the title above the members and Article 306 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 376th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 394. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 397. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 411th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 419th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 470. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On a proposal to add the name of the member and member of the 473rd amendment in the same text, the Citizens' Protector and People's MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 476th Amendment with correction was brought together by the MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 486th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 507th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 509. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 516th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatović, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 518th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 523rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 524th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 527. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 547th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 547th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 547 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 548th Amendment, MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 551st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 551st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. You have also received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and along with Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamarija Vicek. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. You want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43526	Yeah. In the name of the Turnover Movement I have submitted, it seems to me, for the first or second time, amendments to one law that is "expunged", although I believe that sometimes laws are so bad or so bad that you have no other way than to delete all the members of this law. So is the first member of this law that for the eighth time, Mr Selakovic, you change, which is the eighth time you change the existing law, which you said had a hole, that it was bad. Like I said last time, you made seven more holes, Mr. Selakovic. You have a large ministry, I suppose, of professional people. Excuse me, what happened to these Councillors Stros-Kan, Guzenbauer, Blair? Do they still work? Now I remember. You have people on the side who advise you. So you had the opportunity to make quality law. Why didn't you make a quality law, but you're making another hole or maybe some patch that's going to start playing for a while? Why didn't you make a new law regarding public notebooks that was protested by lawyers for six months, but you made another amendment and addition proposal?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43527	Mr. Veselinović, I'm trying to be correct, but you're really unfair. I give you my word even though you're too late. You're talking outside of the amendment, you're talking about everything and everything. I'm asking you not to do it anymore. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Where am I late? I've already moved on to the second amendment when you answered for the word. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: It is not true. ) Well, that's what the public of Serbia could see. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43528	I'm not late anywhere. I sat here, applied for a word. The fact that you wanted to make it impossible for me to discuss it, so you can fly over the Public Records Act, that's your problem, but that's not going to work for me. Any attempt to distract me as the opposition MP that I speak will not work. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43529	Now it's working, Mr. Veselinovic. You really are incorrect, Mr. Veselinovic. At that moment, you entered the door of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. You didn't sit in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, so don't be so unfair. Thank you. Article 4 of the amendment... (Janko Vesenović, from the city: You did not let me finish. I can't give it to you when you're not talking about the amendment, Mr. Veselinovic. I ask you to discuss the amendments submitted, to explain the amendments, and at no time will I interrupt you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43530	I don't have the opportunity to explain my amendment, because you're interrupting me. You're telling the truth. So I was there when the amendment was read and I answered. I wasn't in the O.R. when it was last law, but you tried to fly over... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43531	Thank you. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Milan Petrovic and together Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43532	In any case, citizens are interested in what this law will mean for them and what this member of the law I asked to delete will mean for them. It means they won't be able to get along in reading this law that matters to them. So when they get to that member, they'll have to ask for seven more changes since 2011. Not all of them, Mr. Selakovic, are cleared of the text of the law. On the other hand, access to consolidated texts by the "Official Messenger" to ordinary citizens has been disabled. A lot of people don't have computers. You know, Mr Selakovic, that one quarter of Serbian citizens do not have water in the waterway, let alone purified texts, so they drink water from the well, laws that you change eight times. So, they won't be able to handle those provisions, and that means they're going to have to pay some taxes, some public bills they might not have to pay. Maybe they could do it with a lawyer, maybe make a document for themselves. They can't handle it. You've made it impossible for them to cope, Mr. Selakovic, through numerous changes in this law. Return this bill, withdraw it and send the Assembly a new law on public records. Make a decent law that can be read, which can be applied. Mr Selakovic, you have the opportunity for this member to be in a law that the citizens will be able to buy, if they need it, to look at, rather than look at the bob of what the legislator really is, or the legislator was going to say through his seven and this is the eighth amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43533	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43534	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really tried to accompany the presentation of the distinguished predecessor, and then I realized that he didn't speak at all about the amendment he submitted himself. Therefore, the amendment to Article 5, which reads to be deleted, provides for erasure of the retirement age limit of the public notebook. You know, it's a very important provision for citizens' rights. It's something very important, and without it, a citizen can't finish anything. So, I was really trying and following up on a professor of legal science, at a state university, that I would hear some argument as to why this is not good, and that there was no amendment to the law on enforcement and security that predicts the perpetrator going to retirement at 67 years of age. So there's nothing controversial about it, and it's about another judicial profession, and here it's controversial. I never said in any way that any law, nor in the discussion of the principle, that the Law on Public Records had a hole, the end of the quote, as I was incorrectly and incorrectly quoted, I said that the law was bad and that the law was supported by the parliamentary majority which was very much supported by the respected predecessor. It didn't bother him at the time, now it bothers him. Will a new law be passed? At some point, he will, when the conditions are met. I think that these amendments to the laws with which the Government has come before the MPs are really necessary in order to achieve more regularity in work, especially in view, and I end this sentence, that this bill strengthens the supervision of public notebooks and protects citizens in legal matters that they take over from public notebooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43535	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43536	Here I will read article 6 to hear the MPs and to hear the citizens of Serbia. So this is the eighth amendment to the Public Records Act. Article 6 and the amendment to Article 26 of point 3 is now said: after the words "publicly a notary assistant", under quotes, the words "publicly a notary associate", also under quotes, after the words "publicly an intern" are added to the words "executor". Let the MP here sit in the National Assembly tell me, what does this mean? So let me explain what this means, and how a Serbian citizen should apply this, to whom this ultimately applies, or to lawyers, etc. I, Mr. Selakovic, am not angry with the attempt to discredit. I understand even your fascination when a professor is at the state college, because you don't have those in your environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43537	Please, Mr. Veselinovic. By 15.00 hours, we had a quality democratic debate. From the moment you get back after your break, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43538	You didn't have any discussion, because the MPs of most, of course, praise the law. I'm an MP for the opposition and I criticise the law. Please silence Mr. Babic while I discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43539	Mr. Veselinović, I beg you to criticise the law, but please don't insult it. It's all I ask of you, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43540	Who was I insulting?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43541	I'll give you all the time you have and you don't have to criticise the law, but please don't insult the members of the government and don't insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43542	Who have I offended?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43543	It's not worth it, Mr. Veselinovic. Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43544	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43545	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, it's nice to have an argument, but if it's justified, then let it be fully argued. This when you read what one provision looks like, of course, that's what the amendments and additions of the existing law look like. All MPs, and especially those with great experience, know very well that the texts of the regulations look that way and that this is precisely why there is one part that they receive in the material, which is highlighted on the site of the National Assembly, which is called – a review of the provisions of the law on amendments, i.e. a review of the provisions of the laws that are being amended and complemented and where it is beautifully shown, are included in the existing members of what certain amendments or additions bring. That's what anyone can see if they follow the debate. Who is interested in purified texts, you have a series of free databases on the Internet where you type in the name of the law and you get refined text. There's no need to make any mistake. When it comes to this particular member, I think it's a good idea to introduce a public notary associate, which we, starting with this member, do, because there are many young colleagues, graduate lawyers, who gain traineeship experience in a notary, lawyer's office, in an executive office, in this particular case, in a public record office, can no longer be interns after three years, then it's their turn to become co-workers, because it's not their goal to become public notebooks. I think it's a good provision, especially for dozens and dozens of young lawyers who work as interns in public office and who deserve to be not mostly interns, but to become co-workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43547	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43548	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(1), and of course I don't mean the presentation of Minister Selakovic, I just didn't report in time. I mean the exposure, but the one accompanied by Mr. Janko Veselinović's exposure. I've spoken a hundred times, and I'll say a hundred more times, no matter how long it takes, that hate is even a political hatred feels like a boomerang. You think you've thrown any strength at someone to hurt them, to humiliate them, but that boomerang will fly around someone's head and come back to your hands sometime in the middle of your head. In the same way Mr. Janko Veselinović acts, not talking about amendments, pointing the finger which I think the children in preschool also know that it is very rude to point a finger at someone. On the other hand, when it comes to diplomats and someone isn't used to it, I believe that Mr. Selakovic could talk to all of us about classes at the University of Belgrade Law School about vocabulary, about all of these things where he was top-notch, where he's top-notch, where he's got a lot to talk to all of us here, but when someone's respecting SNS personnel, he'd have to first explain to Mr. Jesic in his 40s? Where did the diploma come from, Mr. Elezovic? Where did a diploma to some Kenny who spent more time with a hood on his head than without that hood? Where'd those diplomas come from? How did they come to be created at once? But it didn't bother Mr. Veselinović. I ask you to sanction this political hatred in the future, and the finger pointed very rudely at other political actors, however, will be assessed by the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43549	Time, thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) I thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43550	I thank you, Chairman. The moment the Ministry of Justice, together with the Attorney's Chamber, found the right solution, the system solution for public notebooks, and when the legal requirements were respected, we felt that this was something that, in practical terms of words, should be a backbone for good, quality work of public notebooks and we are standing on it right now. And of course, such system solutions are something that implies that public notebooks have the space to comply with the provisions of the law, in accordance with their powers and competences prescribed for them, do their job in the best interests of the citizens. If in some way it would devalue itself, as it is now trying, I don't see any point in making the law itself. Public notary associates, as is the case with law enforcement associates, if we're going to make an analogy, are something that is both personal and functional, and also professionally involves supporting the public record profession. This also applies to public notary interns and assistants. There is absolutely no single reason why such a system, such a structure, is changed and that what is systemically well solved is brought under question, i.e. in a practical sense, it involves certain problems that may arise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43551	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43552	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd go back to this amendment. It is important to say that this amendment introduces a public notary associate. In all courts, the prosecutions have co-workers. You have persons who have completed a traineeship and who want to work and stay in that organ, do not want to move forward for many reasons. In this way we fill in this vacuum space, and as no law is the Holy Scriptures and this law is not, so it needs to be changed, innovated, complemented, changed what life has shown to be surpassed or forced by life to be important. That's why we're here to refuse this amendment. I have the impression that this entire set of amendments is a desire for self-revelation, for a political exhibitionism, to try to charge this ruling majority with some strike, for some rebellion, so that we are insecure, to change seven, eight times the law to confuse the ignorant citizens of Serbia. It is not true and no one should be placed in front of these citizens, to impose themselves as protectors of the poor, ignorant, because if that were the case, and many poorer people in Serbia have, the proposer of this amendment would be on the list that would get much more than she gets, which is about 6%. Let me get back to this. I think with all these amendments we should explain to the citizens of Serbia that this does not contribute to the better, this contributes to the confusion of the public in Serbia, to lead people astray and to have someone appear here to protect them. This way we give young people a chance, give them a chance to graduate lawyers who want to stay with a public notebook. They don't want to make progress and be public notebooks, but they want to be co-workers, they're professional enough to help a public notary. This will only contribute to the quality of the notary system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43553	Thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th Amendment. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43554	Minister Selakovic, therefore, we can enter into the measure even though I think this law is bad and because it will be difficult to apply. Therefore, in Article 7, which amends Article 28(4), the deadline for submission of applications for public notebooks shall be reduced from 30 to 15 days. It is certainly a provision that does not go into favour of transparency, the legal certainty of those who are supposed to be public notebooks tomorrow. We come up with that famous appointment of public notebooks, or the election of public notebooks we had, practically overnight, in a way that put legal certainty at risk. On the other hand, Minister Selakovic was tried to say that the state's lawyer's relationship with the Law on Public Registration was resolved. No, Mr. Selakovicu, lawyers say that the law is not applicable and that the agreement is essentially not respected, that public notebooks are doing what was previously given to them by law. So, they abuse the law at the expense of lawyers, at the end of the day, at the expense of the citizens. When I lift my finger like this, it's not a threat, but I'm trying to say why I think this law is bad for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43555	Time. Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43556	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I must respond. I don't understand the meaning except for mere politics. First, in the preparation of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Public Records, that is to say, to the construction of these amendments and additions, and that Serbian lawyers whose representatives gave opinions on these regulations were consulted. They've been objecting by the terms of five members. All the objections they had were adopted and I must commend them. In particular, there was a spotless and very dedicated Bar of Vojvodina, whose President, Mr. Sikimic, immediately made remarks. We respected those objections, went out to the government, the government set out a proposal, and here it is before us a proposal. If there are cases where some of the public notebooks do not respect the law, there are disciplinary authorities, and of this adoption of this bill and the ministry in much greater scope, where those who have objections can complain. So it is in someone's way of trying to blacken everything up, create panic, create problems, indicate that the sky will collapse if anything happens. He won't. In my view, this is a better solution given in the bill than this existing solution, because we are a state in which not all public notebooks have yet to be filled, but we do not yet have public notebooks in the fields of all courts. I think this solution is something that in the first place does not endanger transparency, enables more competitions to be called, which is also good on the other hand, saves time, and not at the expense of candidates. I don't know what's going to change the position of someone who has a right today, if there's a competition going on today, I end up in this sentence, there are conditions to be appointed as a public notary, what will change his position in the next 30 days, compared to the first 15 days? I don't see any reason. If there's any solid argument, please let me hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43557	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43558	Dear Vice President Becic, I suggest that the amendment be rejected because it is unacceptable. However, the amendment promoter said the wrong things, I will quote, in explaining this amendment, that the appointment of the notaries was overnight, which is not true. However, in the realisation and application of the law of one year, we have been witnesses, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the Notary Service has yet come to life, thanks to this particular ministry, although it should have been brought to life during the party of the former regime, which belonged to the respected proposer. It is also good that a certain number of lawyers passed the notary exam, and that is correct, although the notary exam should have been passed during the party of the former regime, which was also the respected amendment promoter who did not pass. Finally, it is good that the Notary Chamber lived during this one-year period of application of the law, although it should have been formed during the party of the former regime, which it did not, which the respected amendment promoter belonged to. And finally, no matter what he belongs to the Turnover Movement, or as the Croat brothers would say - the craftsman's association, I don't think it's correct and fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43559	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43560	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the SNS parliamentary group is asking for the rejection of this amendment, as well as all amendments that are proposed and which will be proposed, where only two words are quoted, and that is to say, are deleted. It is our view that in this way it wants to obstruct Parliament's work, to deprive and devalue the work of this valuable Ministry of Justice, to point out to the public in Serbia that the Law on Public Registration is not worth anything, that this has been changed seven or eight times, that this is actually the eighth time and that this is proof of the unquality of the proposed members, i.e. the amendment and the addition of this law. It's just not true. Every change that we've done, proposed by the ministry, we've defended in our House of Commons. The opposition attacked, placed itself at the helm of a striker, who demanded that the rights of public notebooks be reduced, and even so far it was suggested that the number and powers of public notebooks be reduced to the extent that they would be the ordinary seals that are now in court. Let's get back to this amendment, Mr. Chairman. I don't think this contributes to a good atmosphere in parliament, nor does it contribute to the public looking at this being satisfied with what is being said. One disorder is being introduced, one defetism is being introduced, one bad relationship is being introduced between us who are in the ruling parties and those who are in opposition. Apparently the opposition people defend citizens' interests, they're interested in their freedom, they're interested in their property, and we're not. Absolutely not. The proof that this amendment is not good, and that the Law on Public Registration, which was brought or seven and eight times changed, and now we will change it to these amendments, is that a month ago, together with Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, I had the honour of receiving a delegation from the World Union of Notaries. They well reviewed the Law on Public Registration, they visited the Chamber of Notaries in Serbia and requested a conversation with us. In that conversation, they were very clear. They have no more serious objections to the Public Records Act. They have no more serious objections to amendments to the Law on Public Registration. They are pleased with the functioning and the way the notary system in Serbia has been implemented, and we remember that it has been abolished since World War II and that it has been very difficult for a new legal institute to be introduced in Serbia after so long, that in less than a year we are in a stable situation, with the full support of the Ministry of Justice, to get all the praises of the International Union of Notaries. They had only minor benign objections, technical considerations, which are not important at all to discuss at this time in public, which made me proud, because I was really adopting all those amendments and additions, leading one, to say the same thing, and the political struggle, here supporting the ministry, in one situation, that as a strike lawyer, at the same time as a MP here defends amendments, or defends the bill that the ministry gives, and then we are in one procedure, where a gentlemen's agreement took place between the lawyer, i.e. a representative of lawyers and representatives of the ministry, there was a calming of the situation. That is why I do not want anyone to abuse this situation in this House. I'm sorry that someone is protecting a lawyer from me or on my behalf, and I'm someone who's been living 30 years in this business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43561	Mr. Nikolic, you must return to the amendment. You've been talking for five minutes about something that has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43562	All the time it has been instructed, I apologize to the chairman, so these amendments have been given to talk about everything that is not the subject and at least talk about the law, or about the amendment. At least there is talk of what is and what is the reason for this amendment, i.e. this member of the law to be deleted. Why, what's the reason? We just saw about the public record associates. Is it possible that someone is against the fact that public defenders exist in a system where they are in courts, in prosecutors' offices, in defenses? We only create this way that young people can get new jobs, be part of the system, see that the knowledge they have acquired as trainees can be realized in this way. Here's where the proposal is now...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43563	Please, Mr Nikolic, the amendment is that the deadline for submitting applications is 15 days from the day of publication of the competition in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43564	And that's what I'm saying, the SNS parliamentary group is proposing that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43565	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together Natasa Vukković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43566	I don't have a minister, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43567	Mr. Veselinović, I beg you, the minister will be coming in any minute, making a statement. Get in the O.R. in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43568	No problem, I didn't say I wouldn't explain the amendment. So in Article 30, which is amended by Article 8 of these amendments and additions, it is proposed that the minister may appoint as the public notary of another candidate who meets the legal requirements. Here the discretionary right is given to the Minister for the appointment of a public notebook and they have not given a clear criterion which is a public notary. So another provision that does not benefit Serbian citizens. Earlier, Mr Nikolic spoke of the World Notary Union having no objections to these changes and additions. Well, it doesn't go out of the World Union's notary pocket the amount that Serbian citizens should pay to the notaries, nor did they wait in line with the notaries, nor did they know what the notaries' attitude is to lawyers. The fact that they came from the World Union of Notaries and if you think they've gained insight into the situation of us in the application of this law, it's like when the EU tells you that you've met certain conditions, and we know how citizens in Serbia live. Thus, the World Union's assessment of notaries is not high quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43569	Mr. Veselinovic, I must warn you in time, but you are free to always finish your sentence, you do not have to interrupt at the moment. Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43570	Thank you, Your Honor. I and the way I take care of what I say, when I mention which institution and what context I mention it in. The World Notary Union and the Council of Notaries of the EU have been mentioned in the context that through their presidents they were present at an international meeting organised by the Public Note Chamber together with the Justice Ministry, where the presidents of the two organisations were said to have supported the strengthening of the ministry's role in overseeing the work of public notaries. Therefore, surveillance of work would not happen if the notebooks did not have effective, effective, good control, as it is in all other countries of the environment, and since it was not prescribed by a law adopted at the time of another parliamentary majority, which I support the predecessor, in which the authorities were then involved. So where the ministry's role, when it comes to monitoring the work of the notebooks, almost didn't fully exist. I don't know who that suits. The absence of control can only be answered by someone who does not want his work to be controlled. Since we really want to be the Ministry responsible for areas within the scope of our jurisdiction, then we don't want it to be just on paper, but to be effective and to treat each one equally. Whoever believes that the notebook to whom he has addressed violates the law and does not work well will be able to address this law from the adoption of both the Ministry of Justice and the Public Note Chamber and the Court, to point out possible work gaps, and whoever is proven not to have worked according to the law will suffer the consequences. It's the system we stand for. It is the rule of law in Serbia that we will strengthen and we will act in this way every time in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43571	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Dr Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43572	This is the last amendment when it comes to this law that I'm going to explain. Mr. Selakovic, I didn't tell you that you mentioned the World Notary Union, but a national MP who spoke before me. If I don't cause a replica, I won't mention his name. I would just like to say once again that the Turnover Movement has proposed dozens of amendments to this law and that I wanted to point out that this law is unreadable, inapplicable and harmful to citizens. I call upon you, Mr Selakovic, you had no good will when it comes to other laws to accept amendments, but let it remain a message for you somewhere to prepare a new text of the Law on Public Notebooks, to see what the holes were, to patch them up, to assign people to work on it and to come before this National Assembly with a new law. Just one more word, since you didn't let me answer, I didn't even ask. So I don't hate anyone. I don't even hate Mr. Babic. I don't hate anyone. I even like his dancing that he performs sometimes, not listening to what the opposition MPs say. So, to be very clear, I just advocate that I write that the ministers read, that MPs take attention, rather than belittled, so that it would be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, and even when we disagree, because I have not directed an offensive word and I do not hate anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43573	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43574	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is proposing to amend Article 9, and Article 9, suggests adding Article 30a. which regulates the question of the registers of public notebooks, who runs it and which data is entered in it, who keeps records of public notebooks, as well as the duty to report data changes. The introduction of this article is in line with the Public Registration Act with the Personal Data Protection Act. Trying to see what an intensifier is, except that such an amendment contests the harmonisation of the Law on Public Registration, which was passed by another congregational majority, with the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, so that the register of public notebooks would indeed be in the other law of the prescribed form, that you cannot use the unique birth number of a person's citizens unless explicitly prescribed by law, I do not see the meaning or purpose of this amendment, because I want to depart from the principle that each amendment promoter is well-intentioned. Having a good intention here means doing something that is in favour of citizens, and public notebooks are citizens who have no less or greater rights than other citizens, when we talk about their basic human rights and freedoms. Well, they also have the right to have their personality data protected, and when they are used to do so in accordance with the law. That's what we're predicting for this member, and that's why I find this amendment unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43575	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi and Sabina Dazdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 10th amendment. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43576	I said I wouldn't answer again, however, if there were political correctness on the part of the minister, I would no longer explain the amendments. So if the minister doesn't understand my intensity, and I've repeated it in nine cases so far, I can repeat it in 70 cases. So my intensity is to pass a new law that will be legible, applicable and in the interest of Serbian citizens, nothing else, Minister. I didn't say there was no provision that would make the law better in some new law. I'm just saying that the law as it is and with a provision like this is essentially inapplicable, confusing, and we have no reason to. If you have the final consolidated text, you say, that can do any serious house that deals with this issue, why don't you do that purified text and deliver it as the final text of the Public Notebooks Act, so that we have a new law on public notebooks that doesn't have so many rags and patches, seven, eight? So I won't answer for the word anymore, but please don't put into the political context what I didn't say and what I didn't stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43577	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43578	Thank you. Therefore, Article 53 paragraph 4 of the Amendments and Supplements Act provides that a public notary is required to refuse to perform an official action in a situation where the parties have no serious and free will to conclude a particular business. In our opinion, doubt is not a sufficiently precise category, it is primarily a subjective experience that can and does not have to be based on facts. As a result, we suggested that this view reads that “if unquestionably established. ” That the Government of Similar Opinions, as well as the applicants of the amendment, confirms exactly its position to accept the amendment, though not ours, but the amendment of a fellow member from the ruling majority, who also insisted, through its amendment, that the assessment of whether or not to act on a legal job should be rejected is nevertheless based on facts, so that I am glad that on several sides, different amendments, the Government has indicated that it is necessary to exclude arbitraryness and, above all, make public notes that, when refusing to act on a job, they still need to base their decision to refuse on some facts, not to bring it down to some arbitrary assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43579	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The word is Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43580	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to say that an amendment which has not yet been read but which has been mentioned by the distinguished predecessor, which has been accepted and treated by the same legal provision, is precisely the fruit of the Justice Department's agreement with the Vojvodina Bar, which pointed to this lack of text of the bill, and that is why I assume that also colleague Pantic Pilja, who also a member of that chamber, reacted to this, and we, thank God, accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43581	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The National MP Biljana Pantic Pilja submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and together by Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly tabled by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi and Sabina Dazdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 36th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Biljana Pantic Pilja submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Biljana Pantic Pilja submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 50th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Regulation of the Court of Justice You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi and Sabina Dazdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Judges You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43582	In essence, the motion of the PRECRET Movement that I have translated into the amendment is that there is no discrimination against people who worked in the judiciary, gained knowledge through work, taught those who finished the judicial academy. It is a very clear explanation why I believe that the choice of a judge should make no difference for those people who have completed the judicial academy and those who have worked as judicial assistants because I believe that if someone has acquired knowledge they should present it in a certain place, to show it, and not to hide it possibly behind another grade. Therefore, people who have completed the judicial academy should not be privileged in relation to people who have worked in the judiciary, who have passed a judicial exam, who have experience. I believe that even this provision is in some way contrary to the Constitution when it comes to the equality of citizens. But if we didn't get into this, it would be very interesting for Minister Selakovic to once again explain why he put people in a privileged position who had completed the judicial academy, and in some ways devalued the knowledge and experience of people who already work in the judiciary, in the judiciary, who made their trade through working in those institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43583	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43584	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think our esteemed predecessor made a little mistake, but that the mistake is actually significantly bigger, and here's why. First of all, this is not about any discriminatory provision in relation to the people who work in the judiciary, because anyone who fulfils the conditions for performing a judicial function can be a candidate, whether he works in the judiciary or not, therefore, in the judicial authorities. That way, a lawyer can be a good candidate for a judge or deputy public prosecutor, weave and a person who worked in a bank on legal matters, with a legal exam and has a certain number of years of experience, so can the person who worked in the system of state administration. Therefore, a judicial function as a public authority should be equally accessible to anyone who meets the conditions to be chosen and to perform it. This is about something else. This is about setting the criteria for determining the criteria of expertise and training of candidates who compete as judge or deputy public prosecutor. Why does the difference between a legislator or a question has been asked to me – why did I put people from a judicial academy in a more favourable position? I didn't put them here or do anything except explain the bill. The bill was done by a working group headed by the Supreme Court of Cassation, at the same time by the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, also by judges and deputy public prosecutors who have been delegated by the VSS and the DVT. The task force has made this proposal, I brought it here before you and defend it. This proposal is not opposed by representatives of professional associations of precisely those people Mr. Vesenovic mentioned earlier, and these are judicial and prosecutorial assistants. They were afraid of discrimination, but when they were told that a rule on taking exams would certainly appreciate their abilities, they accepted to be part of this task force, to participate in the drafting of these regulations. Another interesting detail, allow me, that someone has completed the judicial academy, and even with the highest assessment, is only one of the criteria that will be appreciated by the High Council or the State Council, unlike the cassation provision of the law, which, according to automation, gave priority to the candidate who finished the academy. It's possible that a candidate who finished the academy may appear here, one who is not to be proposed to the Assembly. I don't think there's any fear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43585	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go, Mrs. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43586	Thank you. I will remain worthy of what I have said both in the debate and in principle, and I have submitted the amendment which is quite the opposite of how it provides for a concrete provision of this bill and that is, of course, my position. I think the Honorable Minister has just given a part of the answer to a question that I can agree with, but when you have a situation to adopt an amendment to say that it means that a candidate for a judge who is first elected to a judicial office as a criterion of expertise and training is given the final assessment he received at the judicial academy. I think it's already his choice as a legal holder in this case that the candidate for judge is more than certain. On the other hand, I have to point out something that exists in practice. It's not pronounced out loud. For the candidates for the judge who were first elected as well as the deputy public prosecutors, those who did not meet the conditions were also elected, I do not know how they were appreciated, their expertise and training, but candidates who were much worse than those who were the judges who almost represented fully and fully trained and professionally as such were designated by their managers. So, I personally believe, I have already said in the debate that I do not represent the views of either the Association of Judges and Prosecutors' Assistants or any other, but I consider that a team before the introduction of selectivity and discrimination of such a provision, however much someone advocated a judicial academy, I think at a time like this, because of the many problems she still has this kind of thing cannot stand in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43587	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43588	I thank the chairman. Well, frankly, I could accept an argument afirming with the amendment, which the distinguished colleague Batic made, that there is not a single institutional problem, which is the existence of a judicial academy and the Law on the Judiciary Academy. If the amendment were to be accepted as it says, it might achieve a purpose in some way, but then the question arises why do we need a judicial academy, why are we in the machine? Which is why we have the students of the judicial academy who have their education and professional training of the aphirmica just like that. On the other hand, we have another burden in the legal sense of the word, which is the Constitutional Court's decision, and I will fully agree with the minister's position. We have a binding decision of the Constitutional Court, which came out of the initiative, let's now say the Association of Judges' Assistants and Prosecutors' Assistants who at one point felt a certain degree of threat due to the possibility of discrimination. And if we do, and we have such a decision of the Constitutional Court, then we must carry it out consistently. I don't see a different possibility, but that, in fact, institutionally accepts the existence of a judicial academy because it exists. There is no other way to treat them, until we change the law, and on the other hand, that those who come from courts and prosecutors, who are candidates for laying down, that is, to obtain the status of holders of judicial functions, whether a judge, or a prosecutor, are subject to a certain degree of their expertise. And how different than organizing exams. I also said in the principle debate, that as many judicial assistants as possible, as many judicial associates as possible, be the target group of our judicial system, which will one day become judges or prosecutors. Why? Well, because they've spent decades or more of work here, and they really need to be paid maximum attention. I don't see that in any other way we can do it except like this. But, on the other hand, where, no matter how many decades they've spent in courts or prosecutors, they've been checked for their expertise? They're not in the courts. They received the rating “specially prominent, ” and on what basis? Because it has certain sympathy for the President of the Court or of the College, according to a colleague or because a programme is indeed organised, which implies a relevant assessment and a factually based assessment of both work and quality of work. Therefore, at the end of the VSS, why would he be eliminated from the possibility of verifying it and thus verifying that assessment of whether it is "expected" or "not highlighted", which was given to the court's colleges or the president of the court. Therefore, in this situation, whether they consider it discriminatory or not, we must also appreciate these three facts that are what they are, the role of a judicial academy, whether or not they should be, that's another story, not the subject of today's debate. The existence of a Constitutional Court decision and the fact that all must pass certain checks whether they are professional or not. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43589	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43590	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to further explain something that I don't think just happened to be taken into consideration. So, I made it very clear, that someone got the highest grade in the final exam, after completing the initial training of the judicial academy, did not put it in motion above all others. I said it was one of the criteria. What will be the other criteria? I can only assume, but certainly, it's of extreme importance, how many years does a candidate have, if someone's finished the academy in two and a half years, and someone's been working 15 years in court. There's a big difference. Furthermore, the body in which someone works is not the same candidate who comes to you from the basic court and the candidate who comes to you from the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Cassation Court or the Administrative Court of Appeal. Thirdly, additional professional qualifications of candidates, because there are candidates who have completed master studies, doctoral studies, candidates who have completed specialist studies, candidates who have written, exposed and defended professional works, expert conferences at scientific conferences, conferences, expert counselling. So there's a lot of things. If you want, even something that can decide a detail, there are candidates who skillfully rule the knowledge of foreign languages. These are all things that are of great importance when it comes to proposing candidates, and all of this is considered. There's another question here, all these arguments that I've made here, these are arguments that contribute to the most judicial and prosecutorial assistants, who haven't finished their initial role at the judicial academy, which have a high level of knowledge, which will be confirmed on the exam organised by VSS or DVT. We have one more thing to do, and I'm finishing it, we've had that Constitutional Court decision for a time, a judicial academy that worked according to the law, a law passed by this National Assembly. What do we do with the candidates if we don't comply with the Constitutional Court's decision? Are we going to tell the people who signed up for the academy, and before that, they quit the courts and the prosecutions, where they worked, and you know that the law is no longer worth anything. Then we're a non-serious state. I think this is the best possible solution. Could it be better? Yes, but it takes a much more active role of VSS and DVT in the work of the judicial academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43591	Thank you. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutionals and Issues and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to item 5 of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY LAW You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were together submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vukovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by the nations by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi and Sabina Dazdarevic. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go, Mr. Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43592	Dear ministers, members of the cabinet, colleagues and fellow MPs, we MPs of the SDA Sandzak - PDD, have proposed an amendment that provides that the process of selecting prosecutors, i.e. the deputy prosecutor, must take care of the national composition of the population, the proper representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of professional terminology in the language of the national minority, which is officially used in the prosecution. The effective participation of national minorities in the work of public authorities has also been regulated by the Constitution, by the laws of this country, as well as by the international binding documents signed by our country. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically Article 77(1), guarantees the right for members of national minorities to participate in public affairs management and to take public office. The same member in paragraph 2 is prescribed to take into account the national composition of the population and the appropriate representation of members of national minorities in the employment of state bodies, public services, autonomous province bodies, local self-government. Article 21 The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities is prescribed to take into account the national composition of the population, the appropriate representation and knowledge of language spoken in the field of authority or service when employed in public services, including police. Article 15. The Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, it is prescribed that Contracting Parties will create the conditions necessary for the effective participation of national minorities in cultural, social and economic life, public affairs, especially those involved, in their third report on the implementation of the National Minorities' Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in the Republic of Serbia, is particularly highlighted by the problem of insufficient presence of members of the Albanian and Bosniak communities in the work of judicial authorities, where I quote – The Advisory Committee again calls on Serbian authorities to take decisive measures to address the lack of representation of national minorities in public administration, especially at the level of the state. Such measures should be taken in the judiciary, especially when it comes to the Albanian and Bosniak national minorities. The European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in the Sandzak-related work, among other things, states that the Bosniak community remains under-represented in local self-government, justice and police. Accordingly, I find it really strange that you did not accept this amendment that we have proposed. It is true that, as stated in Article 82(5), a solution is offered, but we see, and it is obvious that neither this solution has brought results the same way as neither the constitutional provisions nor the legal provisions nor the provisions of our country's international obligations. Accordingly, we believe that this amendment is another additional mechanism in achieving the rights of national minorities in this matter. The representation of members of the Bosniak national community in performing public prosecutorial functions is not in line with the national population structure in the towns of Sandzak. I am particularly emphasising this on the territory for which the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar and Užica are in charge, as well as the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prepolje. The provisions guaranteed by the Constitution, laws and international law are not respected here, but are still favoured by candidates, members of the majority people, even though in numerous competitions the Bosniaks and their experience and knowledge and quality comply with the criteria prescribed. During the last election of public prosecutorial functions, the constitution, as well as the above-mentioned laws and rules of international law, was severely violated, at the expense of Bosniaks who apparently were denied the right to perform public functions within the judicial authority as guaranteed by the Constitution. This requires that I also call on you this time to suspend the election process of the public prosecutor's office in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, as well as in prosecutors responsible for other cities' territories in Sandzak. I call on you to carry out a new election procedure for public prosecutorial office holders to be called upon to finally comply with the constitutional provisions and laws of this country and finally set out to bring the national structure of employees in these state bodies into line. We have also discussed with your predecessors at the head of the ministry and with you several times a few years ago this problem, possible solutions and how to finally bring the structure of employees into line with the national population structure. But to this day, as you can see, there were no results. I therefore urge you to use your powers to accept this amendment to create another in a series of mechanisms for the exercise of the rights of national minorities prescribed by the Constitution, the laws of this country and the international norms that our country has taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43593	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43594	Dear Chairman, although there have been words about something that is not a part of the agenda, I ask you to have an understanding of what I may be saying a sentence or two longer. Dear fellow Imamovic has given himself the right to say something that is absolutely not true. I don't want to believe he meant it seriously, I want to believe it's only politics in the middle, but politics to be used for this kind of purpose isn't right. The first thing, if he wanted to say what was true, then he would say that at the last competition for the deputy public prosecutor in Prijepolje, where there was a competition for one place, a person of Bosniak nationality was accepted, that at a competition for judges of the General Court in Novi Pazar, where eight judges were elected, six judges who are members of Bosniak nationality were elected, and two members of Serbia, that at the latest a competition for selecting judges in Sjenica, where two judges were elected, both judges of Bosniak nationality were elected, and in that court there is no judge who is a member of Serbian nationality. That in the final contest for the election of Judges of the Greater Court, this approach is also respected, that when we talk about the holders of judicial functions, i.e. leading judicial functions in the area of the Greater Court in the New Market, if you are already forcing me to do something that is neither politically correct, nor hygienic to count ourselves nationally, we have the Criminal Court in Novi Pazar, whose head is Bosniak, the General Court in Novi Pazar, whose President is Montenegrin, the Supreme Court in Novi Pazar, whose head is the only Serbian, head of the District Prison, or the head of the District Prison in Novi Pazar, whose head is the head, or the head of the General Court of Justice in Sjenica, Bošnjak, the President of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What are you talking about? You said there was a violation of the law during the last election of public prosecutors. First, the choice wasn't made at all. How did that happen to break the law? Are you saying that of all the functions that I've listed, which is a criminal court, a court of law, a senior court, a primary prosecutor's office, a more prosecutor's office, a county prison, so I'm talking about everything that's in the area of justice, a violation court in Sjenica, a basic court in Sjenica, of eight leaders, is one Serb, and that one bothers you? What kind of violation of the law are you talking about? What kind of violation of the law are you talking about? (Enis Imamovic, from the place: Who said it bothers? Well, you said the law was broken. You said something about fighting against members of Bosniak nationality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43595	Mr. Imamovic, please, you can't throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43596	Mr. Imamovic knows very well that I come from the part of Serbia that I call Raska, he calls him Sandzak. We speak the same language, we call it different. We witnessed the abuse of that right in a purely political, ugly way. Mr. Imamovic will not say that my term of office was the first competition for the appointment of court interpreters for Bosniak language. No, it's here that you need to abuse a serious state job and throw away something you're doing. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for speaking a little longer. It was about something that was very serious qualifications, something that wasn't the point of the agenda here. I ask you to have an understanding of this and not to take it as evil for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43597	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43598	I, by the way, wouldn't have heard from the minister after this presentation if it hadn't been mentioned in Uzice. But in the presentation of the honourable MP Imamovic, Užice was mentioned. I'd like to know when and in any election process, whether for the primary prosecution, whether for more prosecution, whether for the primary court, whether for a senior court, a commercial court or a criminal court in Uzic, is any Bosniak discriminated against? Who since the Bosniaks then responded to any back-up contest without being accepted for being a Bosniak? I'm just asking about the ropes, and we can talk about jurisdiction. We have from the Prepolje of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, which is Bosniak, we have from the New Varoshi Judge of the Constitutional Court who is Bosniak. That same judge was in the New Sad Judge of the Court of Appeal, and then he was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. If we have a Constitutional Court as an instance at the top of the Serbian judiciary pyramid and we have a representation of Bosniak nationality, what are we talking about when it comes to respecting the rights of national minorities? I don't want to talk about the situation in Bujanovac and Presevo. That's not what the minister pointed out. But as Secretary of State I was twice down, twice talked to representatives of local self-government, from them I received objections to the formation of the judicial network, to the requirements concerning the increase in the number of courts, so I asked the question – how many Serbian nationalities there are in those courts, and I always informed the minister about it in order to be familiar with the facts relating to the territory and the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I can't, in any case, take away the impression that this amendment is not intended solely for the sake of respect for the law, or law, because I don't see that the law is broken anywhere, especially it can't be talked about harshly in violation of the law. If we're going to talk about politics, politics can be expressed but on far more harmless subjects than this topic that is extremely sensitive and delicate when it comes to a complete judicial system, when it comes to a state apparatus. I will remind you, this government of the Republic of Serbia has brought Serbia to the door of Europe just by respecting all standards, including standards relating to respect for the rights and fundamental rights recognised by international documents and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43599	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43600	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, particularly the citizens of the Raska area and the citizens of the Pcinj County, this amendment should not be accepted because it would make discrimination. He would say that we have one situation of sharpened international relations, disrespect for the ministry towards national minorities, its structure in the judiciary. It's just not true. When we discussed this bill in principle, I pointed out, it can be seen in a stenogram, to appeal to you, ministers, that everywhere there are national minorities, and that is especially relevant to the Pcinian district, you have in particular in mind, speed up and help to have a number of trainees, a certain number of prosecutors, deputy prosecutors, according to the national composition in that territory. That's what I'm holding on to now, that's what I was holding on to back then, and I think I'm knocking on the open door, knowing you as a minister, knowing the work of this ministry since 2012, until today, I'm convinced that this is no problem. This is just an attempt to bring oil to the fire, which is still smoldering and we still haven't been able to correct what we had between ourselves in the last century. You don't need to do this kind of thing, pal. I know the situation in Novi Pazar by circumstances, because in that famous reform of the judiciary in 2009-2010, my wife was elected Judge of the Criminal Court in Novi Pazar. I've been there more than once, and here, I'll say something. The best memories in his long career are from Novi Pazar. It was accepted there by all as officials who are in Novi Pazar, at the Criminal Court, by the prosecution, it is all one building, one conglomerate, made up of all, the basic court is there, the senior court, the prosecution of the basic, more prosecution and the court for violations. There are no things that lead to someone not being able to stand, to favor someone, to feel uncomfortable because they are Bosniak nations or Serbians. That's where they don't count each other. Don't count them in this assembly. It's a little more specific in the Pchinian County, where I'm from. There it is constantly mentioned and fueled by the situation that the Albanian national minority does not have enough trainees, there are not enough judges, there are not enough prosecutors. I'm telling you -- no, because there are no candidates, there's no because many of them didn't want to finish law school or if they finished it, they couldn't pass a judicial exam. What I have learned for the past four years is that it is speeding up the laying and helping graduate lawyers with a certain experience of the Albanian national minority to pass a judicial exam. I can even say you're looking through your fingers. Even these commissions are not as rigid as they should and as rigid to other candidates, all in the desire to have a deputy prosecutor, as there are, from the Albanian national community, that there is a judge of the General Court in Bujanovac of Albanian nationality, as there are. Therefore, I think that this amendment should not be accepted and that this Assembly should not be a polygon where we will pour oil on fire and create a bad situation, by providing incorrect data, and based on these incorrect data, we have drawn worse conclusions and sent a bad message to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43601	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43602	Thank you, Your Honor. First, I would like to thank my colleague Dragan Nikolic for providing the exact information relating to his stay in Novi Pazar. Indeed, the New Market is a wide - hearted city that knows how to accept people from all sides. I'd like to make another point with my colleague Neđa Jovanovic. I wasn't talking about the court in Uzic, but I was talking about the territory where the court in Uzic was in charge, and I would devote the rest of my time, trying somehow to respond to what the minister said in his discussion. First of all, I find it scandalous that you used the term hygienic or unhygienic. I really don't know what you mean by that, but I hope...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43603	Mr. Imamovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43604	... that you will somehow be able to explain what is hygienic and what is not hygienic. The other thing is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43605	Please, only if you allow me one sentence. The minister said it's not like we're hygienically dividing ourselves and counting ourselves nationally. That's what he said. You've caused several replicas. You'll challenge them again. Please return to the agenda and speak of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43606	It's my right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43607	Maybe it's my fault that I let you speak out of the agenda and feel guilty about the caused replicas. So I'd like to ask you to return to the amendment you submitted, or I'll have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43608	Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43609	I'll count your time. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43610	I was talking here about the amendment that we handed over to the D.A.'s Law on election and assembly in the D.A.'s office. I've been on the subject. A dissident who wasn't on the subject was a minister who spoke about courts. Now I would remind the minister that he was talking about the courts, and I was talking about the prosecutions. You, speaking of all the judicial authorities, have managed to name just a few functions, you haven't even used all the fingers of one hand. I remind you to tell me, Minister, how many functions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43611	I have to interrupt you. Use reply by amendment for replication. I can't let that happen. You can't get the right to a replica. [[Enis Imamovic, from the place: I use the right to replica.]] You didn't mention it. You've caused a replica. (Enis Imamovic, from the place: How can I not? I was misread. ) If you are right in that part, you have two minutes of replication. You spoke for two minutes and 30 seconds. (Ennis Imamovic, from the place: You do not let me speak.) ) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43612	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I've been mentioned, and I've been mentioned in an incorrect context, and that's why I asked for a word to get a replica. First, I've used more than one hand's finger, and I can read who wants to know. Secondly, I said that in the election of a deputy public prosecutor in Prepolje, filling a vacant post, we chose a candidate who is Bosniak national. Does that have anything to do with the D.A.'s office or what? Thirdly, when I said, on my side, someone would say, it's not hygienic that we're counting people and I don't think so. I grew up in Nova Varosha, had best friends and neighbors who were Muslims at the time. Some are still Muslims today, some are Bosniaks. I don't have any problem with these people. These are still my good friends and, first of all, good people and decent citizens of the Serbian state. On the third hand, I was talking about respecting the national composition of the population in the election of judges in Novi Pazar and Sjenica, and if I have stated that a total of ten people have been elected, eight of which are Bosniak nationalities, and two Serbians, that is enough to tell everyone what it is about. Lastly, Mr. Imamovic began to talk about breaking the law in the process of electing public prosecutors. That's not the point of the agenda, but since it's a serious accusation and qualifications, I acted there. What I was saying when I said, I'm going to read to you what I was just saying. Head of the District Prison in Novi Pazar Muamer Suljević, chief public prosecutor in Novi Pazar Nermin Koškovac, senior public prosecutor in Novi Pazar Stanislav Dukic, President of the Violent Court in Sjenica Nermina Mahmutovic, President of the Criminal Court in Novi Pazar Rubin Duštinac, President of the Main Court in Sjenica Rifat Kurtovic, President of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar Djordje Gojgic and President of the Higher Court in Novi Pazar Izet Suljević. Whoever's decent and well-intentioned, I don't have to tell him anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43613	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43614	I thank you, Chairman. I'd like it this way and end the circle of replicas. There's something we can agree on. True, New Market is a beautiful city, a city that always takes a wide heart to all people. That's right. It is also true that Užice is the center of the Zlatibor County. It is not true what is said when it comes to any kind of discrimination. I don't want us to get out of this room unsaid. The minister spoke of names and last names. I have listed several members of the Bosniak nationality in the highest judicial institutions of the Republic of Serbia. I must also say, as will the Minister and all together, fully deserved, because they were chosen by the criteria that were then prescribed and which are respected and rightly bear the status of the holder of judicial functions. They're doing a great job. From here on out of this place, from this Assembly, I call literally all and those who are Bosniak nationalities and all other nationalities to apply to competitions both for public prosecutors and for judicial functions and all other functions. Where they deserve it, where they meet the criteria, where they deserve their quality and expertise should be chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43615	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Imamovic, I'm asking you to stay on this, because everything... (Enis Imamovic, from the site: I am looking for an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43616	I have the right to seek further explanations, which have been misread from my discussion. I'd like the minister to tell me, and perhaps you'll be able to pass on to me, how many functions are there in Sandzak, Novi Pazar and in all five other cities in Sandzak, which are in the judicial authorities? When he listed the names, he listed eight names. Of those eight names, not all of them are members of Bosniak nationality. We are here, Mr. Minister, talking about the representation of Bosniaks in state authorities with public authority. I was talking about the representation of the Bosniak in the prosecutor's office...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43617	Mr. Imamovic, I think we've gone too far. I'm gonna have to take a break. If you won't let me continue the session, I'll have to take a break. Please get back to the agenda, talk about the amendments, or I'll take a break. (Ennis Imamovic, from the scene: I asked for an explanation. Take five minutes. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Please. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi and Sabina Dazdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43619	Nothing. I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43620	Thank you. (Petar Petrovic, from the post: I answered the word. Do you want to follow this amendment, Mr Petrovic? (Petar Petrovic, from the post: I applied for the previous amendment, just now. Mr. Petrovich, we have moved on to the next amendment. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was filed by the people's sent by Petar Petrovic. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment with a correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. You want a word on this amendment? (Petar Petrovic, from the city: No. I thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and details in general. I'm sorry, Mr. Petrovic, I didn't see you in the system. We move to the sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of Justice You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received the Report of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1 with the correction, the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were together submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vukovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43621	Thank you. The government has proposed that meetings of the High Council of the judiciary be public and that the Council may decide that the session should be closed to the public, provided that the interests of the public order or the protection of the confidentiality of the data, as well as in the cases set out in the Rules of Procedure are imposed. I don't mind having some High Council sessions closed to the public, in the extreme line of provisions of some laws even obliging, especially when it comes to data protection that some data is not public. But I find it a very bad practice that one, by law prescribed principle on the public work of the High Council of the judiciary, which I welcome, allows the Rules of Procedure, as an act of lower legal force than the Law, to prescribe exceptions. I also agree that it is not possible for the law to provide for all cases and to tax them in order to exclude the public, but I believe that this is rather a greater risk and greater damage if exceptions to the rules of transparency of the High Council of Justice are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure rather than by the law. In this regard, we have proposed an amendment that the Council's meetings are public and that they can be closed after the decision of the High Council of the judiciary only in a situation where it is necessary to protect the confidentiality of information and when the public order interests so require, to exclude the possibility for the Rules of Procedure of the High Council of the judiciary to prescribe exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43622	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. Mrs. Batic, do you want to follow this or your amendment? This one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43623	Thank you. In principle, I support this amendment, which was very well explained by Mrs Martinovic, which I spoke in principle about not being able to regulate the Rules of Procedure, as an act of less legal force, to do something different than the law. If it stays this way and is not changed by adopting an amendment that is proposed to such a solution, then such a legal provision is absolutely unconstitutional. So here you condition the application of the law to the Rules of Procedure, in fact, the Rules of Procedure are governed by legal matter and what is most important, here you define the law by your Rules of Procedure. So I think you need to think again about adopting this amendment or about some other amendment, or you need to suggest yourself some other solution to remove this provision of unconstitutional character from one of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43624	Thank you. Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43625	Thank you. On Article 2, I have proposed an amendment that simple decisions must be reasoned and that they must contain a lesson on the legal remedy. I explained this more than in detail in the debate in principle, and I was actually talking about the VSS decisions and the decisions of the state council of prosecutors. A team before a bill like this is passed, and before a bill is passed like this, then you must bear in mind that the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure are simply not in agreement and that this will prove that the VSS has to approach the making of a completely new Rules of Procedure because this does not speak at all. Furthermore, the question remains, of course – in what context is the concept used as a generic concept of decision, because we have some solutions. Some solutions, not some, but almost all solutions must contain under the reasoning and what is called, and that is the mandatory part of the solution, the lesson on the legal remedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43626	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43627	So, by respecting just what the distinguished colleague Batic was saying, I will only point out that in the Law on Judges, more specifically Article 51, when it comes to the most important decisions in the work of the district of the High Council of Justice, it is very clear that, therefore, Article 50, I apologize, paragraph 4 says – the decision on the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary must be explained and published on the website of the High Council of Justice. Therefore, the obligation to make a decision must be reasoned and already prescribed by law. I don't know why it's so controversial. On the other hand, I don't see that this High Council of the Judiciary, at least in that period since I was appointed as his member, by my decisions, or by sublegal acts that were advertised as unconstitutional. Why do you always assume that there will be a Rules of Procedure that is not in accordance with the law on either amendment? The basic rule is that the Rules of Procedure must comply with the law. I don't see why that would be at all controversial. Therefore, the decisions of the council must be reasoned, must contain a lesson on the legal remedy. Even the lesson about legal medicine is prescribed by law. It is said that there is a possibility to launch a administrative dispute and appeal to the Constitutional Court. So I don't see what this would be all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43628	Thank you. The amendment has the People's MP Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43629	Thank you. Despite my will, I don't know why a respected minister today doesn't understand what I'm talking about or not listening to. So everything I said you answered the opposite of what I was talking about. You say you don't understand why the decision has to be explained. Well, I said by amendment that she had to be explained. Well, read the amendment. That's what you said. The whole time, from the context, I'm being attributed to something I didn't say. We'll take the stenographic notes and see who said what. So Article 2 of Article 17 of the amendment reads - state council decisions must be reasoned. In this regard I agree with you, and I do not know why you say – what is the potential for argument. Am I changing my mind with an amendment? Absolutely not. But the lesson about legal medicine, that's what I'm adding to this amendment, and I don't know what she's talking about in advance. Now on the subject of this amendment, I absolutely didn't even mention it wasn't stopped. It is stated that in the explanation of the amendment, did I say verbally, I did not. I really beg you, don't put words in my mouth that I haven't said in a moment. On the other hand, when it is said – an explanation, that it must, of course, contain an explanation. But bear in mind, the lesson about legal medicine is not an integral part of the reasoning that is meant to be. You yourself said that, that is understood, there is the possibility of a dispute before the Court of Justice. I don't see what's going on here. So, please, when I say something, listen to me or at least read it. We don't understand each other here all day. You answer to what I don't say at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43630	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43631	Dear counterpart Batic obviously does not understand that the amendment is problematic because it implies that every decision, not a state council, as she said, but a council, we are talking about the proposal for a law on the High Council of Justice, was probably a lapus of lingu, so the State Council said, do not have all the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary the same legal nature. The Law on Judges stipulates that certain decisions of the High Council of the judiciary are final. As a good lawyer, counterpart Batic knows very well that there is no regular legal remedy for the final decision and then I do not understand why an amendment is submitted to require the provision of a lesson on the legal remedy binding on all decisions, because there are decisions on which the remedy is not available. Well, the ones he has for them are prescribed by law, but he has. counterpart Batic knows that this is a legal system and that the advice does not work under only one law. The Law on the High Council of the judiciary, yes, but also the Law on Judges, as well as the Law on the Regulation of Courts, and the Law on Judges prescribes different types of decisions made by the High Council of the Judiciary. In Article 98. The law on judges clearly states that when deciding on the appeal, the High Council of Justice, when deciding by appeal, can confirm the first-degree decision of the disciplinary commission. So we are talking about a disciplinary procedure in attitude 3 – the decision of the High World is final. What lesson about the washed medicine on this kind of decision? On the other hand, it clearly states, when it talks about legal remedy to a decision on termination of office, the Law on Judges rules Article 67 of the Constitutional Court appeal. counterpart Batic is right but partly. One part of me is right. Therefore, we cannot prescribe a mandatory and constituent element of every decision to teach a legal remedy, because there are decisions that are individual, to which legal remedy can be declared, there are decisions that are general. And that was the reason for my exposure as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43632	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43633	Thank you. What you just said is everything I said in the debate in principle. Just about the different decisions being made, so I'm also in the context of the diversity of these decisions, here's a free stenogram note, in the debate in principle saying that some decisions are final and there's no right to make statements, but that others are not so that the appeal can be made, and that I'm partly right, you've just given me those who say that you're partly right and part of me, which means that the proposed legal provision is not entirely correct, as it's not completely correct, nor the amendment, and only a single kind of mix of these two solutions would come to what would be perfectly legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43634	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic and Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43635	Thank you. In addition to what my esteemed colleague, Olgica Batic, has already said when it comes to the reasoning of decisions, I also support the view that every decision should be explained, literally every one, because making an explanation does not really require a particular intellectual effort if it is about some decisions made in a larger number, and if it is about specific decisions, it seems to me that it should mean that they should be explained. What's crucial here is the question of who and what protects the principle of transparent work of the VSS. Whether it protects the public's right to know what he's doing and what decisions he's making and why he's making VSS or on the other hand, we're protecting him from overwork. I don't think there's really any serious excuse that VSS decisions don't all be explained. I'm sorry I didn't think of what my colleague Batic thought of, so let's add this lesson to the legal remedy. And when there's no legal cure, it's listed. Therefore, if there is no possibility of investing a legal remedy, but rather the initiation of a administrative dispute, that is to say. Why would that be a problem? It's simple, calling on members of the law where you say that this or that procedure, this or that drug, is pre-schooled in legal medicine. For every judgment of a first degree court has its own lesson in the legal remedy, and that lesson is based on some legal provision. If we follow the logic that you have now made, it would mean that there is no need at all in the judgment to state that there is a possibility of appeal, because it is already prescribed by law, so it is not necessary to state in the teaching of legal medicine, which I think is wrong. And not that I think it's wrong, but it's not in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43636	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43637	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I've been very clear, the VSS is an organ of authority that makes both general and individual decisions. We don't know what kind of legal drug lesson we can talk about, let's say, if the VSS decides to conduct a binding training of judges on, say, a new criminal code. My colleague Martinovic is a good lawyer. What lesson on the legal remedy on the general legal act? Come on, please, help me, let me find out something new that I didn't know by now. Imagine that there are lessons about the legal remedy for the general acts established by the governments of the Republic of Serbia, since the VSS is not the authority of the judicial authority. Under his jurisdiction, he is not a judicial authority. He's a sui generis one organ. Something that would today be called some kind of regulatory body. Like, make the rules, make the rules. Or, imagine the VSS brings a Rules of Procedure on your work. Is he supposed to end up writing a lesson on legal medicine? A rule of law lesson?- I'm sorry. Come on, please. When it comes to decision-making on status issues, it is prescribed by law that the VSS should explain its decisions. I will remind my colleague Martinovic, because this obligation was not properly respected in 2009, at the time of DS authorities, the Serbian Constitutional Court announced such decisions unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43638	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43639	Thank you. I'd just like this opportunity, so I don't spread the debate, because obviously we can't agree here, I'd say it's best to take a stenographic note after this session, read everything that's been said in principle, and read everything that anyone has said today in detail. When I spoke in principle about decisions, that is, the generic concept that we use for decisions both DVP and VSS, I listed decisions, solutions, conclusions, opinions and said which of these decisions implies that the legal remedy must be provided after the argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43640	Miss Batic, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43641	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43642	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43643	Thank you. So again, I'm kind of under the impression that we didn't get along so well. My amendment applies only to the obligation of the VSS that every decision it makes has its own reasons. I formally supported what my colleague Batic was talking about. So my amendment concerns reasons. Now, if we're talking about decisions made by the VSS, ministers, the government when it proposes the law writes an explanation. The law is general acts and has its own reasons. It's not a problem, so no decision or act has its own reasons. Why would the VSS be harder than it is for the government to write its reasons for the decisions it makes? The explanation doesn't have to be something on ten, twenty or fifty pages, it can only contain a few sentences, but it's important that the one to whom the decision is addressed, whether the decision is general or individual, knows on the basis of which rules and for what reasons a decision has been made. As for VSS practices from previous years, I fully agree with you, but let's be wise people who learn from other people's mistakes, not to find justification for some of our mistakes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43644	Thank you. It's my fault, Mrs. Martinovic, for allowing this amendment when you said what you were saying and something that didn't comply with this amendment, so maybe that's why there was a mistake, and that's why I have to give the replica to Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43645	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to clarify this whole story, I'm going to quote Article 17. The VSS Act, so please let me at least in the next ten seconds have attention to those words. Therefore, Article 17 reads this - Council decisions are made by a majority of the votes of all members, item 1. Article 2 - The Council's decisions must always be explained when legal remedy is allowed against them and when it is prescribed by law and rules of procedure. Please, sit down, read the whole law, and see that something that is required by amendment to be introduced through changes and supplements is already prescribed by law. Therefore, Council decisions must always be reasoned when legal remedy is allowed against them and when it is prescribed by law and rules of procedure. As a fellow MP once asked for something to be entered into the law from word to word already existing in another member, so is what is required here. We can agree on that or not, but by systematic interpretation of the norm, you will come to this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43646	Thank you. Miss Batic, you can't get your word, you don't have any more time, you don't have any MPs, you don't have time for an authorised representative. Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Connection of Prosecutors. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were together submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43647	For the same reasons that we have submitted the amendment concerning the work of the VSS, we have also submitted an amendment concerning the State Council of Prosecutors, because we believe that if the law declares the principle of transparent and public work of the State Council of Prosecutors, then the law, this or some other law does not prescribe exceptions to that principle. So, the Rules of Procedure are an act of lower legal force which does not have the power to derivate the provisions of a higher act, more legal force. I think that in this sense this proposed member is unconstitutional and I fear that in a month or two, we will be in a position to amend and supplement the State Council of Prosecutors Act, precisely because now that we are doing the changes we are not accepting, obviously very well-intentioned and professional suggestions from the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43648	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43649	Thank you. This amendment in one part is similar to the amendment explained by my esteemed colleague Martinovic. In fact, I suggested that the member be changed and that it reads "that the meetings of the State Council be public, the State Council may decide that the session should be closed to the public". I'm not going to mention possible unconstitutionalness again, in fact, unconstitutionalness if there is a solution like this, so before I've discussed it more than once in principle, you can't edit legal matter with the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the Rules of Procedure, the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, I have it in front of me, everything it commentes and everything it says, therefore, everything it regulates about sessions, as far as the public and secrecy are concerned, is prescribed in its Article 16. Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors which is still valid. Well, he says – The sessions are bigger by the rule closed to the public. The council may decide to consider certain issues at a public session. Following approval, the second position, the president, the senior sittings, may be attended by an employee in the Administrative Office or other persons. So, this solution is unsustainable if the current Rules of Procedure are observed, and the fact that a new Rules of Procedure has not been adopted, you need to imitate the law that you are making, and not after the law is passed, that you are now bringing some amendments and additions, then there will be a legal vacuum, and what are we going to do in the meantime? The State's Major Prosecutors, the New Rules of Procedure have not passed, and you're delegating the Rules of Procedure for a legal provision like this, and where we come from, we come only to the field of unconstitution and nothing more. So, you are responding, accept any amendment explained by colleague Martinovic, any amendment that I have submitted to. This way you edit legal matter to the Rules of Procedure you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43650	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Olgica Batic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Justice of the Academy You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic with a correction, and joint MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Mr. Minister, do you want a word by amendment between Mr. Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic? To Article 1? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43651	Excuse me a second. These are not amendments to the same text, this is only about the amendment of MP Zivkovic. So, I just want to accept the amendment between MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, the second amendment you listed has been corrected. So the correction was filed. Thus, amendments by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic to article 1. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43652	I agree that you accept the original amendment submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic without amendments that were subsequently corrected by a group of DS MPs. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle, in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Judicial Taxes You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 1. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43653	Thank you, on behalf of the PRECRET Movement, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Court Taxes, and I have proposed that the payment of court fees be not regulated by a dissuasive provision which allows those who determine the payment of the fee to be paid according to the rule in court fees. So there's the possibility of getting paid in cash. What we talked about when it was a principle debate. So, I don't mind that the legal persons and the individuals who want to pay that tax through the current account, through the bank. But what I'm afraid of, Minister, is that the court will write in a place where it says pay the tax and pay that amount in cash. Therefore, it should not be left at the discretion of the court to determine how to pay the fee. It should be possible for the parties to choose the way, but it is not the ministers, so it says – as a rule in court fees. If it is said by the rule in court fees, therefore, what I insist on and what might be the problem is that the court will say – money. Why did it bother you to put on another sentence, that a decision on how to pay a fee makes a person a payer? It's about the fact that whoever pays the tax needs to decide how to pay the tax. I'm afraid there's gonna be a problem with the applicability.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43654	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43655	I understand Mr. Veselinović completely, I just want to make it clear to him. So, if it is said that a tax of up to 5,000 dinars is paid as a rule in court tax marks on how only a taxpayer will pay the tax. And this is a provision that concerns him in the first place. So, let's say, if Mr. Vesenovic is to pay the tax, he himself decides whether he will pay in cash or court fees. Both are considered valid means of payment. If we were to erase this position, as a rule, we would make sure that all fees in the amount of up to 5,000 dinars can only be paid by court taxes. In order to avoid the obligation of the norm that only court fees can be paid a court fee is laid down as a rule. And it is not the court that determines whether it will be paid in money or court tax. Both are equal means of payment for all taxes of up to 5,000 dinars. If we delete this part of the provision, if we accept your amendment, we oblige citizens to pay up to 5,000 dinars only in court tax. And that's why you don't accept the amendment. If your intention really was to say, we want everyone to be worth up to 5,000 with just court tax marks, then your amendment in that sense, let's say, comprehensively, but I've come to realize from your oral explanation that it's not your intention at all. That it's your intention to leave an obligation to pay a fee, to decide whether or not to stamp it, whether or not to pay the money. Basically, it's both money and money, and he can't pay it anywhere with cash in court, but he can go to the post office, to the bank, to fill out a payment on that amount, to pay and to pay a fee, if he chooses a court tax, he won't pay a fee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43656	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43657	I'm trying to clarify my intention. So, I'm afraid that in the application of citizens, which is uninformed, which, based on the suggestion, will continue to pay in cash through an account which further increases their cost of bank expenses. So, you say the court doesn't determine how the tax will be paid, but in some ways, based on the practice so far, when the tax is paid only in money, there's a possibility that this trend will continue and that's why I suggested that the tax be paid only in tax marks. True, we came to a later point in order to make it impossible for some people to pay a fee over an account, but I'd be inclined to make it a rule to pay in tax marks, and that the party could pay in cash if it wanted to. I'm afraid that between this normative and what's going to happen in practice, it will be inconsistencies. It's just that maybe we don't understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43658	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43659	Since I am absolutely confident, as I believe Professor Veselinović is convinced, this provision is in favour of the citizens, because it will reduce their costs and professors. Veselinovic said in principle that for a fee of 30 dinars he had to pay 60 dinars a commission. I publicly invite him to take part in our campaign, in which we will introduce citizens to the return of court tax marks and draw their attention to how much this will lead, especially to fellow lawyers to the savings from taxis to copies of the records and how much it really is one good thing. So, paying a tax of up to 5,000 dinars, it's a rule, it's a court tax mark. That's why there's a sentence, by the book. For legal persons, it is much simpler for them to do this through a virtual, or account, and for citizens to charge taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43660	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic and Jovana Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43661	For the very end, the amendment that we have submitted refers to the obligation, that the list of authorised taxpayers of tax marks be published in the “Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice’s Government’s website, as well as that it is updated in accordance with the Government’s decisions on granting the power to sell, that is to say, to cease the validity of the sales authorisation, in order not to prevent abuses and unauthorized sales of judicial tax marks, because citizens are above all not obliged to know where and where they can buy tax marks, except in the courts’ buildings, and therefore I think it is very important that they be informed in one quality and serious way, where they can buy court tax marks and use them in court proceedings, without the risk of being subject to counterfeit taxes. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43662	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, individuality and generality in the voting day. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your participation in today's session. We MPs continue to work. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Health Protection pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, with members of the Office of the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milan Petrovic, together Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovac and together Marko Đurić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Petrovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic, together Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovac and together Marko Đurisić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic submitted the same amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milan Petrovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, a joint parliamentary group of the Democratic Party, nine MPs and a joint assembly of MPs, Boris Tadic, together with ten MPs, submitted an amendment to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party, nine MPs, submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, nine MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43663	To Article 6. The health care law, right? Chairman? Is it? I'm sorry, Article 6. The health care bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43664	Can I help you, Mr. Braddick?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43665	The amendment to Article 6 in relation to the Health Protection Act, did you read that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43666	We are on the 11th point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, you are right, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43667	Thank you. Therefore, Article 6 refers to Article 199 and says – a health care worker, a health associate, as well as another person employed in a health institution, or private practice, to another legal person who performs health care in accordance with the law, can carry out certain tasks from his profession with another employer outside of regular working hours, by concluding a contract of supplementary work with another employer for a total duration of up to one third of full-time work hours. In the following position, he says – in a completed contract on supplementary work with another employer, healthcare worker, associate, and other employee, he is obliged to inform the director of a health institution in writing, i.e. the founder of private practice and another legal person who performs health work in accordance with the law. All of this applies to the amendment of the member, whose essence was in the following position – the supplementary work under Article 1 may be carried out by an employer with whom a healthcare professional, a health associate, or another employee, has completed a full-time contract, or by another employer, only provided that the work of a healthcare professional, a health associate, or another working person outside of the regular working time for which the supplementary work contract is concluded does not affect the organisation of the work of individual parts of a healthcare institution or health institution in general. Essentially, this proposal was made by the Government, i.e. The health ministry says that what has been a practice so far that a health care worker from a state health institution or a network plan facility can only work with another employer with consent. That was until today, up to this bill of law. This equates with the Labour Act and gives opportunity to all employees in state health care, healthcare workers and health associates to only inform their employer that they have established another working relationship to a third of the working time, as much as the law allows. Furthermore, it is said in this article – that a healthcare professional is obliged to provide a health inspection with a work contract, which he concluded with the new employer within 15 days. We have made a proposal to the Minister of Health and the Government to delete this position, because we think it is absolutely unnecessary, that it is unnecessary to administer a healthcare worker who has concluded a new labour contract, that he is carrying it to a health inspection when there is an employer of the primary, i.e. State health and directorship, whom he has informed that he has established another working relationship to a third of the working time and that there is an employer with whom he has a basic working relationship to a third of his working time, so it is absolutely unnecessary for him to go and subsequently inform the inspection, because it will, in its normal work, establish and control it. We think it's a good thing and that what he suggested is unnecessary workloading. Once again, I want to say that this is the second step of the Ministry of Health to solve a decades-old problem. This problem is, we are all aware of that, the source of corruption and nepotism in health care, the possibility of additional work. This has been solved in various ways so far, never happy and never quality. I assume that this framework roof member of the Health Protection Act is just an outside wrapper of what the ministry in its sublaws will later resolve and specify, because this gives great opportunity. What is good, the minister's acceptance of the suggestion, that the possibility that the bill provided for the establishment of a working relationship with several employers was corrected, it passed on to the Committee. The colleagues unanimously voted that only a working relationship could be established until one-third of the working time in one employer. I hope that what is promised that employers will be conditioned that these workers who have a third of their working hours pay their income to one jury account, what you said to the ministers, all in order to control that supplemental work and the quality of work, and that remains only for the time ahead to see how the ministry will resolve the control of work with the primary employer, the quality of work and possibly abuse, is sending patients to private offices. I hope you'll work it out in a good way. We, as MPs, will follow it, and if anything is wrong, be sure to criticise it sharply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43668	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. Mr. Minister, only after I have determined that you have accepted the amendment to Article 6 which has been submitted by the Committee on Health and Family, but you must say so in the system, so I would ask you to enter into an amendment to Article 6 which has been submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43669	Thank you. We've accepted that amendment to be conducted, so that only one office can conclude the contract. The other thing, I want you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43670	Mr. Minister, allow me, I must say so myself. I find that the Government's representative, the minister, accepted on behalf of the Government the amendment to Article 6, which was submitted by the Health and Family Committee. Now we return to Mr. Bradic's amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43671	Thank you. I just want to make it clear what logic we went through. We went with logic, so far you should have had consent from the director of the facility so you could work with someone. There's been a lot of complaints about that. For what reason? You had a colleague with a colleague not in good relations, the director with one of his colleagues is not well, he wants the director to work in that office, he doesn't want someone else to go, so we made it extremely democratic that everyone can choose, that it doesn't depend on the director, so it depends on his ability and whether that office wants him or not, and he can't be prevented by any director or anything else, that's the reason. And what we said to bring, it's just to raise our awareness, just so we know, and that they have insight into that contract, that they have this membership where they bring the contract, where they're going to be, that they can't go to third and fifth, that's the only reason. We're looking for this solution, and I can see that everyone has agreed, because we have legal problems to find out that one is being paid. So now we have a financial problem and some other laws. You can't have two sources, so you can turn them into one, but we'll, hopefully together we can all find it and it'll be as transparent as these things, and the contract, and bring it in and independent of the current manager who's here, who for some reason might bother you if he wants some office to have you go into it. So, we've completely freed all these pressures to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43672	Thank you. The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43673	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I would just like to refer to this explanation given by the minister. In any case, that this amendment should be absolutely rejected and it should not be accepted. It's quite right, the Ministry, with an explanation. However, one more thing, and this is that we have begun to do, in a certain way, control and control of this additional work, and it is not a waste to inform and inspect, because we are also aware that, in a large number of cases, the additional work was a generator of criminal, or a generator of criminal work, so that we will try and try to reduce it to one reasonable measure and one control. So, in no way is it against the inspection to be included in it, and I think it's absolutely good and that amendment should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43674	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43675	I am also of the view that this amendment should not be supported by the fact that a clear distinction is being made between those who, whose full time is 40 hours, are able to work a week 13 hours and 20 minutes at another employer, or those who work 36 hours, will be able to work for 12 hours, and health inspection should be informed, which should ensure the safety of citizens that the quality of the work of people working in addition work is such that citizens themselves have full security. I think a copy of a contract just sent to the Health Inspector, people who want to fix their financial status and don't have any other hobby, actually won't mind. On the contrary, they want to cooperate with inspection services because they work well. For those of you, this House should have no understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43676	I thank you, Mrs. Dejanovic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43677	So I don't open up an unnecessary discussion, just to explain our idea. So whoever hires someone who works one-third of the time, he has to report it, he has to collect taxes and contribute, because it's a new employer. It is understood that everyone and all inspections have insight. I'm a private and in my business have absolutely all inspections of insight, there's no need for me to keep them informed, they're informed by law enforcement. Secondly, what's very important, I think we should apostrophe that this only applies to full-time workers. I guess those who work in the exposed places, who have the benefit of working hours, I mean radiologists, that they don't have this privilege, because it's illogical for someone who works part-time because of the dangers at work, the exposure, to have the possibility of doing extra work. Then it should be natural to work full-time at its base facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43678	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 7th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 8th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Health Security Act You have received amendments submitted by the MPs under the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43679	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and to Article 4. Otherwise, Article 1 in its first two positions is quite fine and we agree with this, and I say for the viewer – a confirmation of the use of health care for an insurance company that is sent to work abroad is issued for the period for which the insurance company is sent to work abroad and cannot be issued to the insurance company if the first-degree medical commission, before going to the insurance company abroad, finds that there is a disturbance with regard to the health status of the insurance company. That's just fine. So far, it has been valid for viewers to be in the process of what we're talking about, the rule was that these insurance certificates are being obtained for a year and those who have been abroad for more than a year have been forced to come to renew these certificates. We're giving this one committee, and it's perfectly normal, as long as a man works somewhere, for a company abroad, through a company, while there's a health insurance company there doesn't need to come out to get confirmation. The second point is that the member of the insurance family referred to in Article 1 of the certificate of use of health care abroad is issued for the same period as the one for which the insurance company is issued, i.e. The insurance carrier, and that's fine. We have a different view here and we have made an amendment, he says – a confirmation of the use of health care during private stay abroad under Article 64 of this Act is issued to a secure person for the longest period of 90 days from the date of issue of the certificate. We suggested that it be six months. It's a common practice. We all have health clearances for six months. We consider that normal because these certificates refer to the use of health care in countries with which we have a bilateral compensation agreement for health services. It's Austria, Italy, Germany, Montenegro, I think Macedonia, BiH. Our opinion is that it's unnecessary for three months to delay it. Those who have the right to health insurance can use it for the same period that they have right here, i.e. Over for six months. That's why we proposed an amendment like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43680	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43681	Thank you. I just have to tell you one thing, which is in line with the EU, the compliance with them, which is that they count it to be 90 days, or three months, because they have a problem with those who are working on black here, and this is their request and their suggestion to be on this deadline. We didn't have any problem with it being longer, but unfortunately, they're looking at it so it's a greater possibility to work on black and suggest it's on this period. That's the only reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43682	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43683	Article 2 speaks of the means. It refers to Article 96 of the Law and Article 96 of the Law – the amount of the profit compensation provided by the means of compulsory health insurance, as well as the funds of employers in the cases referred to in Article 74(1), point 1, 4, 5 and 7 of this Act shall be 65% of the basis for the compensation of earnings, which shall be the sick, and that is quite all right. The amount of the salary compensation provided by the means of compulsory health insurance as well as by employers in the cases referred to in Article 74(2) and (6) of this Act shall be 100% of the basic remuneration. The following attitude says – in the case of temporary prevention of work due to diseases or complications related to the maintenance of pregnancy for the first 30 days of temporary prevention for work paid by the employer from his means, the amount of profit compensation shall be secured in the amount of 100% of the profit compensation base. It's okay. The problem has arisen, what happens to that payment after the 30 days, as it falls on the burden of the Republic Fund and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind the citizens that 65% of the pension is paid by the RFO, and 35% by the government and the Assembly's decision is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It goes through the Republic Fund and it's been going to this day that the Republic Fund has been making a profit account at 35% for every insurance company that has had this right and directly paid that 35% for it, and 65% for the account, gross and net accounts, to 65% for the employer who gives every month to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and then refunds those costs. I say - gross, because the employer is obliged to pay every month for his employee a contribution, and then the Republic Fund refunds him when he returns his funds. The problem is, there's been a double administration. The employer made a reckoning and sent the Republic Fund, and the Republic Fund was obliged to account for those 35% for every patient who had this right and that was a big problem for the Republic Fund in the past period, because the Republic Fund has no capacity and has no ability to do so in quality, because that, in the end of the line, is not his job description. We have here suggested that full funding goes through the employer, that the Republic Fund pays the employer and the employer will pay the insurance companies that have those rights, and the employer will then administer it completely, and 65% and 35% and send such lists to the Fund. We suggested that the employer handles, that first part we agree, and that he sends those accounts, and that instead of the employer, the fund still pays the insurance companies, but the entire amount, that 100%. We think it's better, that it's faster, that it's more efficient and it won't lead to a possible stalemate, because it depends a lot on whether the employer is liquid, not liquid, whether he's paying the contributions in time, whether he has to pay or not. This is one thing that is certain – he can account for it, and the Fund can do everything that follows – the receipt of these documents, the calculation of contributions, the leaving of a part of the contribution to himself, and the rest of it to pay the insurance company that has those rights. We were not accepted, on the grounds that your proposal was better, that's what the lady who was from the Republic Fund said. I think you should consider accepting our proposal, because it is still in the best interest of all of us to have an insurance company, i.e. A woman who has the right to make up for this, she gets it from month to month, quality, succession, without being able to stop it. Because surely when the Republic Fund pays off, when it has proper documentation, it won't waste any time and there's no way to accumulate that money and get to what the government has decided, as the minister said, that a solidarity tax is not charged to women who are not their own fault, and their earnings that are late, when they pay them, go over 60 grand and charge them a solid tax. It's okay that it's stopped and that money is going to come back to women, but I'm saying that this is one way to prevent us from talking again in the future on the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43684	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43685	It is very interesting this time context in which we are discussing in general the amendment of this law and the proposal made by the Government, which is now under reason that it helps women insurance companies, how they will now be easier, how they will get their payments more secure. We have a situation that precisely because these payments go through employers, we've had a delay in documentation, a delay in payments, a build-up of funds based on which a solidarity tax is then accounted for, and this whole problem that the minister says the government has solved by making a conclusion. We'll see how the government handled it. Even the Government acknowledges, in its explanation of the rejection of our amendment, that employers are late in delivering documents to the Fund, which is why there is a delay in paying for earnings. So I don't see how you here are helping women insurance people in this case. I don't see how you're going to help, unless you say it's going to fill out one less form. That's nice, but I think it's a lot nicer for them to know that every month they're gonna get paid, because sometimes whoever's working doesn't think about whether she's coming from the Fund, part of it from the employer, so stop coming from coming from the Fund, as she's already going after a month. Not all employees are professional enough to know all this and take care of it. What they're interested in is, especially those women who keep their pregnancy alive, whether they'll get their receipts on time every month. I don't see how this is going to help them much, to guarantee that now what the state is willing to separate, and has in the budget to separate, to separate regularly. There's still an employer. When we have proposed a new member here to be conducted within the legal deadline, you say – there are already other laws that regulate it. Apparently, they're not good enough because they don't regulate to win every month. And what can happen – once again the late payment, and then the state on its part, through the executioner and all of this force that we discussed today, someone doesn't pay the bill, the state starts to charge the fees, the fee for the executioner, this, that, so it's three times the total debt. Who's going to forgive them? If we're going to get into a situation again in a few months, press some newspaper inscriptions, how something was late again, got piled up, someone didn't get to pay the bill or make some debt -- now the state is going to help them. Let's act preventive. I don't know if this is our best way. We suggested something, with the idea of making sure that money is obtained regularly every month, women are given pregnant women on pregnancy. You haven't convinced us that you've done us a great favor by filling out one less form. There will be no greater security after the adoption of this law that their money will arrive regularly every month. They remain for mercy and mercy, now completely, an employer, who in some cases, as you admit, is irresponsible and does not meet his obligations in time. Did you not foresee any change to punish that employer who doesn't work on time, or something like that, and say he'll get better? As you suggested, we are not convinced that this situation as it is now with a solidarity tax will not appear again in another case in public, and then here in parliament as a reaction. I think we should act, especially in these sensitive things, preventively, to predict a situation and try to solve it in advance, not get into trouble and then solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43686	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43687	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this amendment should not be accepted because the means to be sent to enter the basis for paying off women who have problems with pregnancy. It's not pregnancy. So it's a disease that has to do with pregnancy, and when a woman like that is on sick leave, she's entitled to 100% compensation. Funds and budget funds must be spent on purpose and cannot be used for any other purpose. The Ministry of Health cannot be expected to monitor financial flows of money and apply sanctions. That's what the Treasury does. In cooperation with these two ministries, we will certainly have uncomparably better steps on this plan, but what is important and what really makes it easier for pregnant women is the fact that they will one day be pensioners. The employer is obliged to deliver all the documents he has relating to payments to the Republic Pension Insurance Fund, i.e. branches. He'll do it, and that's the biggest advantage. The Ministry of Health has taken an extraordinary step which has proposed precisely this kind of change, and therefore I don't think the amendment should be accepted, because it is in the interest of pregnant women who will one day be pensioners to have complete documentation coming from the employer, not to be burdened with papers about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43688	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43689	So let's make it clear to the people and not to complain about those who follow in these late hours, that is. Late afternoon, this transmission. So this administration we've been talking about all along, pregnant women haven't even seen it. It has nothing to do with them. So no woman fills anything. We're talking about something called normal employer administration, which is due every month to send the Republic background with a reckoning, and then the Republic Fund refunds the employer and gives the money he needs to forward to the insurance companies, that 65%. On the other hand, what the government did this year, which is about a billion and 300 million dinars, is that grant from the state to 100% for pregnant women to have, would not have a reduction in jurisdiction during the stay. It's the Radio Republic Health Insurance Fund and to make it clear to everyone, what we bring is the discharge of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. So he won't have to administer anymore, to do the calculations, he won't even have to work on an M4 form, which would fit him to work on an annual level because he was doing the bidding for that 35%. (Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, from the place: You are wrong. I'm good. I'm wrong. Well, the employer works for his part, but when someone gives on behalf of the state 35% and he has some reckoning, it's not the same base in the M4 form. But, well, it doesn't matter if we don't go in, and I don't know this matter well enough not to detail it. The bottom line is that this is a good thing, that those who don't have a job description to do that administration won't work anymore, it's the Republic Health Insurance Fund. But what's that we're talking about? It's that money's never late for insurance. It's the essence of the subject and that's the essence of the story. It means he's never late. We're not preventing this, is there a legal obligation for employers to have a parallel jury account to pay off their sick? There is. Is there a delay besides that? He's late. Well, we've suggested he won't be late, because the only one who's safe in this chain who's going to make a payment is the Republic Health Insurance Fund. That's 1 over 1 for sure. So, they just don't have to do what they were forced to do, they don't have to do the calculations, let the employer do it anyway, and the payment to do the employer, and he'll pay the insurance company, and there's nothing wrong with it. There's nothing wrong with it, I don't see it, I'm really not an economist having in an economist's room, let people tell your court whether we're talking well or not, but we have a good intentions and a good desire to solve the problem. I see the Ministry has that wish, too, so let's make a deal to make something that's for the benefit of those women who need to take that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43690	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Loncharu.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43691	I thank you, and here you can really see that everyone has a desire to help, and I just want to assure you of one thing, even though there are people who understand the economy and everything else. So this is all done to avoid and reduce the risk of not being paid in time and to reduce the entire administration and everything. There is one additional way to ensure, but it does not depend on the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health cannot affect the employer. We motivate him with this, and we force him to step up with the state, or the Republic Fund, to even himself with him. The only one who can, and we all agree, and we all need to do that is the competent ministry for them, to issue a warrant that will be sanctioned if they break deadlines if they don't work. It's the only thing we can do, but it's not up to us. So this is only with so much brain and everything that's worked out in all those experts doing it, to make sure we protect the maximum pregnant woman in the section we're dealing with. So it's the simplest and shortest way not to complicate people, it becomes not clear what we're doing. The only thing that can be added to this is the competent ministry to issue that they must be paid within a certain period of two or three days after payment from the Republic Fund they must pay off and will not post-confidentials. That's the only thing that the experts have said. Everything else isn't real. We can't, as the Ministry of Health, order an employer and give him some kind of punishment or anything. You all know that. I mean, that's real. The most the Ministry of Health could do is this, but I agree that we can put additional pressure on the resolution ministries to do this thing and that people who get it, or women who get it to be maximum protected and safe, when the state is already making a commitment and employer and agree that it is a special sub-account or whatever it is, and that it is specifically monitored that it is not to be late.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43692	Thank you. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43693	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Ministers and Honorable fellow MPs, I would really not be spreading the discussion in some, to say the extent that I find it inadequate to say one thing, one fact, and that is that the Ministry of Health's legal service has practically stated that there is no legal basis for the Republic Fund to pay off profits instead of employers. I would concentrate all my attention on the other side, and above all my recommendation to the Ministry of Health and above all to the Republic Health Insurance Fund to do one, I would say rigorous control of employers. In what way. To whether or not, when and when they made the reckoning, they were insurance workers. The other thing is, did they deliver that bill to the Republic Fund? So these are the mechanisms by which we will get the goal, and the goal is for pregnant women, or women who are on sick leave, who are related to pregnancy, to receive compensation at the right time, or the desired time at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43694	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Health Documentation Act and the Health Audit. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43695	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, this is a law that shows why you are on the scale of the most unsuccessful governments in the world, between ten and what makes our health one of the worst in Europe. So, you're asking us today a few days ago to extend your deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts for another year. Mr. Lonchar, that's irresponsible. What have your officers been doing for a year? Why didn't they bring in a sublegal act? I read well, Mr. Lonchar, your explanation. You say – public procurement procedures have been implemented in parallel for certain systems, so there have been complaints, probably not completed, and that is why you did not bring sublaws. Mr. Loncar, you've also passed the Public Procurement Act and this law regarding documentation and records. You've been in power for four years. Not you in particular, but the party you belong to. I would have accepted this bill, I would have used my five minutes and voted for it if you had come to the Assembly and said – I had replaced that one, and that one, I asked the Prime Minister to replace that and that minister, because he proposed such a law on public procurement that paralysed Serbian health care. That would be responsible. We seem to have, a year ago, talked here about having problems, about health issues for public procurement. The turnaround believes that the state of health is bad and that there is a need for a change in serious change so that our citizens will not be afraid that they will not be able to be treated when they are ill. It's the biggest fear now in Serbia. Citizens are afraid that they do not have enough resources to treat themselves privately and that they will not be able to be treated. Mr. Loncar, you contribute and in some ways you influence this situation by bringing it to the National Assembly a few days before the New Year's Law, which you have been giving your ministry a deadline of one year to pass sublegal acts. Do you, Mr. Lonchar, know how much sweat, effort and everything else it takes for citizens to get a minimum of 21,000, and you give yourself the right to extend your period for a year to adopt, or bring in a sublegal act? That's why, Mr. Lonchar, the state of health is so that the X-rays are broken, that the CTs are broken, that no radiation devices are working, that there are no drugs, etc. Because there is no responsibility, because you have bad regulations, because existing regulations are not applied and there is a need for a serious twist. Mr. Loncar, this state of health concerns anyone who lives in Serbia and worries their parents whether their child will be able to treat and worry their pensioners about getting sick, so they will have to decide whether to buy bread or buy medicine. They won't be able to buy both. They don't, Mr. Lonchar, because in these four pension cuts, the costs rise. These days we also had an increase in excise duties, even the introduction of excise duties on electric numbers, i.e. fixed costs. Mr. Lonchar, this is not a responsible bill. The law you submitted on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, signed by Aleksandar Vukic, who sought efficiency, expertise, etc. It reads, dear Serbian citizens, in article 61, 216 is replaced by 217. So, the realisation of the law to be implemented in 2016 moves in a year and there is the signature, unfalsified, I have no doubt, of Alexander Vukic. So, Alexander Vukic, on your proposal, probably signs such a law, where he gives himself a deadline that he needs another year to adopt a sublegal act. The Turnover movement won't vote for this bill. I'm asking for this public responsibility from you -- which is why you filed this law, as well as the responsibility for the state of health, Mr. Lonchar. Whether it's your personal guilt or the guilt of a system called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I don't know. If you are a man of the profession, I cannot function in a system like this, and the system is what it is. The other day, Mr. Wolfie was bringing us pictures of some clinical center. We know that well. Our cousins, friends are being treated at these clinical centers where ceilings fall off. Our children go to children's hospitals, where beds are like beds. Mr. Lonchar, we know that, we don't need Alexander Wolf to tell us that. What did you do for these four years to fix it? Zoran Babic throws. ) Please, Mr. Becic, try to react to Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43696	Please allow Mr. Veselinović to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43697	So, what did you do for these four years? Don't ask us what we did last time. We're asking you now, now you're on the exam. You didn't do anything. The state of health is worse. Worse than before 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43698	Time, Mr. Veselinović. Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43699	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, it was very interesting for me to read the reasons for not accepting this amendment, which is otherwise written as an explanation for the refusal of amendments to Article 1 and to Article 2, but let's do it less now. What's important is what we can see from this explanation, the ministry's activities in the process of obtaining this integrated health information system. Then there's the lack of the ministry, I'm sorry. So, you wrote here that on February 13, 2015, you published a prior notice. So on February 13th, the law was passed on November 8th 2014. So it took you three months to announce that you're going to announce a public procurement call. Here you put the indicative date of publication of the March-April call in 2015 and the expected date of completion of the contract in April-May 2015. Then in the end you publish a call for public procurement on 27 April 2015. So four days before the deadline and six months after the law was passed. I ask you, what have you been doing for the first six months since the law was passed here until this call for public procurement has been published? You knew a year and a month ago when we passed this law that you wouldn't make it, or you didn't know anything? Because for six months, you haven't been able to publish a tender, or call for public procurement. You've written everything well. So you wait four months, and you say, we're going to publish during the Mart-April period, and then on the last day of April, we're going to announce. Then, of course, according to this best law in the world that this majority adopted here in 2012, the process takes place, appeals start, objections once, twice, you wait for August, then you make a correction, and once again and finally you say here – the procedure ended on 19 November 2015. So, a year and ten days after the law came into force. What were you and were you aware of what business was waiting for you here a year and a month ago when you came and asked us to pass the law with these deadlines? Have you done everything to honor this deadline? Not that you're guilty of the Public Procurement Act, what did you do for six months and wait for this public procurement to be called? I'm glad you gave us this answer, 'cause I see exactly how you didn't do anything here. You could have made that public procurement by the end of last year. I don't know what kept you from carrying her out and that we don't have a debate about this at all today. I'm glad we got the answer, so we can explain to the citizens how the ministry didn't do its job, and it blames the Public Procurement Act, which the political majority, who wanted to pass this law, brought, with the words that it was the best in the world, that it would solve all our problems and save us 300m euros a year. So here was the debate at the end of 2012. You've further convinced us not to give you the right. I especially don't understand, seeing as how some colleagues have suggested that you are now looking for another year to pass the necessary regulations, and some colleagues have proposed 18 months, or even six months, which I think is much more appropriate. If it's already public procurement, if you thought you could do the whole job in a year, I don't know why it takes another year or why you really didn't know anything about the job that was waiting for you, when you came to the assembly a year and a month ago with this law. That's why we can't give you support for these changes of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43700	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43701	First, I'll take these questions first. I'm glad you mentioned that fear and I have to tell you that this fear of healing has led to a change of government because people are scared because of what you've been doing and then they've given someone else trust and that trust goes now and over 50%. As much as there's fear now, and what fear it was, and you're right. It's a serious fear, and because of that fear, there's been a change of government, and you're where you are, when people saw how much money was invested and what they got. Now let's get back to these deadlines. I must tell you that we have been taking great care because dozens and dozens of millions of euros from the EU funds for information systems in Serbia have been spent since 2000. The only thing we wanted, and what they ask from the EU every day where these systems are, what about these systems and everything else, to make the most of the existing systems, to integrate them into this system, because this is an extremely specific system. I'm sorry that, however, someone has to understand what's going on in order to know what's going on here, to see our desire to make the most of what's been spent on huge money. Tens and tens of millions of euros, and we with three million euros from these citizens of the Republic of Serbia to integrate it all and to make it all work. So that's the only reason we can see what can be used to make that system work. This system, here I was today watching a presentation in the largest health home in Nis, is already starting with human training, and it goes here and on New Belgrade. The citizens will have a chance to see how they can fail, how much order they get into it, how they're going to know who's doing what and how they're doing it. Now, it's time and we'll see about fear and everything that exists, but I'm saying we're still not going to find an excuse for dozens and dozens of millions of euros that came in here for the information system, and we still don't have it. I think that's an extremely big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43702	Thank you. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43703	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is very strange to me, I must admit, because I see that the promoter is not used to the procedure in public procurement having its own legal course. Probably because during the period of rule of the former government, this was done in a completely different way. We all know very well about many, so-called cases and direct contracts and setting up a tender and everything that isn't there today, on our luck. What I can say is that, reading this amendment that is attached, he even mentions responsibility for not implementing the law. And who will answer for hundreds of direct contracts, for robbery, for various financial malfeasances during the former government? Who, I'm asking you? Is it possible that someone here today mentions responsibility for literally applying the law in the Ministry? I really can't understand the amendment either, and so I suggest that it bounces entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43704	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, do you want the word again? Yeah. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43705	I, right to tell you, enjoy the answers of the majority. When we ask the question, why is it that something is not done as it is said to be done, then is the answer, and how did you do it, and how did you steal it, and how did you do it, and how did you do it? Well, I'm inviting you, anyone who's been stealing something, has negotiated the opposite of the law, has done it, please charge him, has to be charged with prosecution, has to be convicted by the court. I will support any such judgment and greet it. No problem at all. Is there or is there no corruption today? You know, there's one criterion: perception of corruption. You like to use it very much, these international organizations that make different lists. This is ‘Transparency International’. The situation in Serbia broke down, according to them, and in 2014 as compared to 2013. We'll see the report for 2015, but I doubt it'll get any better. I doubt it. Perception of corruption among citizens. You think there is no corruption today, there are no direct contracts, there are no tendering, and I'm sure there is, and there is more to it than there is until 2012. I'm not happy about it. On the contrary, I'm very sad. I'd like the government to run a different policy. The subject of this amendment and this law are not those things. The theme is the minister who came and said a year ago – we'll do the job, and you knew a year ago that someone from the European funds spent all those years. We all know who ran health care in Serbia all these years, to be fair, which parties worked directly on these jobs. You said - I'll finish this in a year or a month, by the end of 2015. Then you worked by making it take you six months to call a tender. You didn't give me an answer why it took you six months, except someone's been doing something for the past 12 years. Someone worked for another two years until you got to that position. But it's not about this law and these changes now, it's about you, what you've been doing. And now you're looking for another year! If you'd said three months, six months, we're here, we're at the end. Public procurement is complete. What now, you need to pass regulations, training to do? So now you're saying it takes you a year, and a year ago, a year and a month ago, you thought you could get both training and training and regulations, all in a year and a month to finish. Now you're saying it takes you practically two years to do the whole job. That's what this blatant government does on every question. She comes to this congregation and herself seeks the extension of the deadlines she herself has brought. Not some previous government, but alone. You say, "We will." Well, you won't do anything. You can't do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43706	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43707	Thank you. It always bothers me when instead of answering questions about why something isn't done, someone says – because someone else didn't do something. That's not responsible. Mr. Lonchar, I wish I'd heard from you if there was a little responsibility in your ministry on this matter. Is there, say, responsibility for what, and you know that one quarter of people in Serbia, families with children, drink water from wells, that there is no adequate control of that water, and that we do not know whether these children drink the right or wrong water? I'd like to talk about these things. As my colleague said earlier, give all those who have been lurking with public procurement to put them in jail. You've been talking for four years, and no one's been locked up. Apparently, there's corruption now. Why? Because they're more or less the same people, they just changed tactics now. So let's see if there's anything you can do in this area, in the area of health care. Don't talk about the past, because you haven't done anything to show that you're better than the ones in the past and that you always look back. We need a twist. We should move forward, Mr. Lonchar, not backwards. Not backwards, Mr. Lonchar. Don't turn around and look at bad students. Don't look after bad students if they were bad. It seems to me they were much better than you, Mr. Lonchar, by these results. The state of health is bad and it's unspeakable. That's what children and young and old and retired and women and men tell you. Bad, long lines, no adequate health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43708	Time. Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43709	They told you in the election what they thought of you doing and whether someone else was working or not. So, that says enough. What you're saying right now, I couldn't say it in my life. You want to convince the people that they're sick. It's like having those hypnotists -- you're sleeping, you're sleeping, your eyelids are heavy, you're falling and everything. That's what your speech looks like. You know, how many waiting lists did you leave, not you, but who ran it? I'm not the competent authority to determine who's for prison, for processing or anything like that. I don't do that. I'm doing business that we bought four accelerators, that we started a fund to treat children that you didn't treat, that we bought a gamma knife from budget funds. Eighty patients have been treated on a gamma knife so far. That we bought 80 of the most modern ambulances fully equipped to have something to drive in. You, who you say or I don't know, know what it was like? Call a tender, pay for the company. He doesn't have money, he doesn't have companies, he doesn't have cars. You don't know anything about that, do you? You have nothing to do with it. It's probably our fault. It's my fault, too. That must be my fault. Photos from clinical centers? Well, it hasn't been those pictures since last year, so nothing's been invested. Now there's money to turn schools, hospitals, and homes of health all. For what? What kept you from doing that? Well, you'd still be in power if you'd done any of this. What's your score?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43710	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, magistrate Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master Dr Blaže Bradić and Ivan Karić together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43711	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, we are, and since we have no confidence in your work, we have proposed that the deadline for the application of this law be extended for another year. I don't think you've accepted this, of course, and you've said you'll do this job, you're saying that a working group has been formed at the Ministry of Health, which is made up of distinguished experts in the field of health records and records, and has taken the view that on January 1st, it's enough to create all the preconditions. That sounds nice, a professional group, distinguished experts, I believe the same ones who wrote these deadlines in this previous law that we passed a year and a month ago. Apparently, they didn't guess it could all end and now they say it takes another year. You know, it's not a little mistake. So, instead of a year, you come in after a year and you're looking for another year, which you missed, you need twice as much time. So I see it's also your manners, I see you boasting about that gamma knife, I say hello, that's a good thing, but you said an amazing sentence to me when it was a budget debate. You said it would be worth it in two, three, five years. It's a big difference if it's two, three or five years. Imagine working somewhere in a state firm or especially private and telling you someone, we want to invest, how much is it going to be worth? Two, five years, it's heaven and earth. I mean, at the end of the line, we can't just look at how long it takes to pay off. I don't think the point of the procurement was to pay the value through time, but to allow people here to be treated, not to send it to Turkey and other things. But it wasn't the primary thing. The primary interest is to treat people here, to train our doctors, all doctors who have knowledge and desire to work, not just those suitable political ones, which unfortunately happens, to work on a gamma knife and the like. We have proposed a period of a year precisely because of what you say happened to us, and that is that we have lost the election, and I am telling you now – so is it for you. So, you're gonna lose the election, and then there's gonna be some more capable ones and they're gonna finish this job by January 1st, 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43712	Thank you. The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. I just had to make sure that Mr. Blagoje Bradic had the advantage of being an applicant for the amendment or you. You've got the word on your tail.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43713	There is much said in the political heat, but if it is said – you know that on a gamma knife only politically-adjusted doctors, then it is something that the dignity of this extremely significant profession really degrades and I have a need as a doctor to remind once again that the gamma knife is doing more than professional, quality colleagues in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43714	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43715	We don't have any problem when citizens estimate that we're not doing well, that we're doing anything here. It's our job, to do the best we can, and since you mentioned the gamma knife, and now that you're talking about an account, we've given 15,000 euros per patient to go to Turkey. Fifteen thousand euros were given to a single patient, and here for a full month and a half 80 patients were arranged here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43716	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43717	Thank you. I just want to further explain in a few sentences why we proposed that this realization be in place of 2017 in this article by 2018. So, as the minister said, a public procurement procedure has been completed, and now it needs to be implemented. In order for Serbian citizens to understand it means that the electronic system should be networked throughout Serbia. In all of Serbia, personnel should be trained to work on an electronic chart with a health, electronic recipe. I hope that the moment this deadline expires, and as far as I can see, you don't want to accept our two-year extension, although I said on the board, it doesn't have to be two years, let it be up to two years. It would be really not too much to extend the deadline next year at this time again. It means that when this deadline expires in Serbia, there is no longer double administration, as is now in health institutions, one writes in electronic form and then writes in books and recipes. I hope this is the goal of all of this, to avoid paperwork, popularly as they call it in Serbia, and only to switch to electronic communication and electronic writing. I think it's been a little a year. I think it takes two years, God forbid you end up in six months, but I think it's appropriate that you accept our amendment for up to two years, not from many heads, no need to talk about it next year at this time. If something goes wrong, if something can't be done by the end, because I say, it's a big job, a lot of people depend on it, it's not just up to you, it's up to a lot of people, and it's all done in a year, let's see. This is quite a well-intentioned suggestion and a proposal and an amendment. I'm still asking the congregation's majority and the ministry to think and accept, I don't see what's wrong with spreading your deadline and ending up in three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43718	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43719	It's nothing wrong, I absolutely understand you, but we have another problem. When we give a bigger deadline, then it's supposed to be doing this one down here. That's the problem we have. When you give a longer term, then he says, we don't have to go now, we'll do it, we won't speed it up and we won't do anything. So, knowing us, our mentality and how we do things, you've worked in health care, you know, it's not for tomorrow, we'll leave everything behind, we'll never do it. So we just can't relax and give it away, this has to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43720	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go, Mr. Lucky.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43721	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable fellow MPs, really irritated me by this late knowledge of opposition MPs that one period of functioning, and in general the staffing in health care was bad. Well, why dear MPs, dear colleagues? Why didn't you raise your voice in the period when it was really bad? Well, to fix the situation in that period, not practically every other exposure being, so you know we know it was bad in that period, so we know, but the minister was from another party. It doesn't matter which party it's from. Any knowledge of something that is not good must be presented, otherwise it is not well-intentioned. I will tell you that Minister Tomica Milosavljevic gave over 100m euros during his work only for implementation and project management. Well, my people, if that money was spent in an integrated information system, there wouldn't be any public procurement, so there wouldn't be a need to get that system. And now, you find an objection as to why the deadline is extended. Well, the legal procedure must be respected. Are you making someone break the law? What's this about? I think we need to understand the situation and the objective circumstances. Public procurement, I insist, as a MP and all colleagues, must be carried out in accordance with the law, and so do the people of the Ministry of Health. The perception of the people, what corruption is, they said in the elections. That's exactly the perception your sunflower made. And I don't think we should discuss, spread the controversy beyond what is the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43722	Thank you. The word is by MP Branko Djurovic. Here you go, Mr. Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43723	The Honorable Chairman, respected health ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, just before mentioned the national centre "Gama najf". The formal legal term for "Gama Najf" is the department of the neurosurgery clinic of the Clinical Centre of Serbia. The first patient to leave for Istanbul was in 2008 at the "Gama najf" treatment. To this day, until the start of radio-surgery department "Gama najf" neurosurgery clinic so far, so many patients have been sent so far that we could buy at least two "Gama najfa". This is a big step. A major step for neurosurgical patients and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. People working in the department and leading the department of radio-surgery neurosurgery clinics are their prominent neurosurgeons, neurosurgeons who have been working for decades in Serbian health. Neurosurgeons who have left no small trace and believe me, do not represent any ruling furniture, represent the top and expert level of Serbian medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43724	The word has been made by Minister Zlatibor Loncar, but before that I would ask all MPs to return to the topic, because this is not the topic of the current session. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43725	I will only have one sentence to make citizens understand what it is, that all EU funds and everyone else no longer wanted to give a single penny to our information system in Serbia, in health care, because they said that so much money was spent, that five systems could have been done so far, that we had to make this system out of our own resources, out of our budget, and in all EU countries that joined, it was made from European funds. Just so people understand the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43726	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding the debate on this amendment. You want a word, Mr. Braddick? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43727	No matter how hard I try to talk exclusively about the amendment in some normal political communication, and no matter how hard I try not to hear political respects, sometimes a man has to give himself a moment and say a few sentences and answer his colleagues to what he's doing all the time. This is what we are talking about now, because we want to do well and because we want the job that concerns all citizens of Serbia, in this case the health term, to be out of the political position, to be above politics, and to try all of our brains and experience and knowledge that we have, to use it to make the best-quality solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43728	Mr. Bradich, I have to interrupt you, you've been taking advantage of group time and the time authorized, and you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43729	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43730	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43731	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, I certainly suggest that the amendment be rejected but let me say that I am horrified by the assessment of opposition MPs, and I quote, who they have spoken to, I quote that one of the MPs - that health is now the worst in Europe, and the other part of the MPs - that the government is the worst in Europe. I simply think it is an insult to the entire government, to most of the MPs in this high House, and that it is an insult to most Serbian citizens. You know, Mr. Vienna, I never speak in my mind. I'll try to make a statement in two minutes and disprove what my colleagues have said. Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition bench, that in the last year and a half and respected citizens, I am speaking to you, you have not heard of any health affair? Is this true, Your Honor, I address you and the Messengers of the people? I'll just list a few and remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you gentlemen MPs, opposition MPs and us MPs, remember the criminal affairs, the trade in waiting lists for cancer patients? It wasn't during this minister, Mr. Lonchar, but during, gentlemen, your former regime minister and those who gave the grade earlier that this was the worst health care in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43732	Mr. Atlagic, please address me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43733	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, would you pass it on to the opposition MPs, have they heard about the crime scene, the emergency affair and the undertaker? It wasn't Mr. Loncar at the time, it was the minister from the opposition benches, and even the MPs who criticized and moved on to another party, so-called. The movement for PRECRET, or what the Croat brothers would say is "a craftsman's association", but there is no MP. He usually, when I start the discussion, runs away and I know where he is, he goes to Obrovac, into the street. Brothers of Kurjakovic No. 7. to move out of the apartment "The Association for History and Reconciliation of Serbs and Croats", from the apartment of Milica Badžep, I guess after 20 years, they will move into their apartment. Have you heard of respected citizens having an affair with a patient's death on dialysis? It wasn't Mr. Lonchar Minister, it was the gentleman from the opposition benches, please remain gentlemen from the opposition benches, so listen to the rest? Have you heard of respected citizens having an affair over the reconstruction of the Clinical Center? It wasn't Mr. Loncar who was a minister, it was Mr. Minister from the opposition benches, and I'm sorry none of them are left? Have you heard of an affair importing vaccines against swine flu? You heard the affair and millions, and their MP, and he was also Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, celebrated the inoculation of chickens in the village of Pukovac, created a vaccine of yoghurt and water, and vaccinated chickens, took the money, the chickens died, died, died, normal. Now, ladies and gentlemen, since the evaluation was, I'm sorry there is no Lord that this is the worst government in the world. Citiram was said by a National MP from the Turnover Movement or the "Offing Association" in order for the Croat brothers to say, and I ask you, gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens, is it true that the Republic of Serbia opened the first chapters with the EU in 2005? Is it or isn't it gentlemen, since you're watching TV now in your MPs' bench offices, you won't stay here till the end? Is it true that Serbia has succeeded from recession in a positive growth trend of three to four percent? I'd like to be denied. Is it true that the deficit has been reduced? Is it true that the Republic of Serbia, led by President Vukic's government, has stopped the UN resolution for so-called. "genocide" in Srebrenica? Is it true or not that the Republic of Serbia alone has not imposed sanctions in this environment Russia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43734	Please, Mr. Atlagic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43735	I'm finishing up, sir, because they've called the government like no other, it's an insult not only to us, but also to the citizens and last, is it true that our country is headed by the Prime Minister and the entire government has chaired the OSCE and shown the world the true face of the Republic of Serbia? I consider this high-end home, as I would say, academic honesty a sanctuary of democracy. I end up with this sentence, and I think we're competing in carrying out evidence, not swearing and not possibly muddling any president, not a single MP. I'm for criticism of both our MPs and the government and the president of the state, only with true facts, not lies. Dear citizens, once again I remind you, have you heard of an affair in the last year and a half since Mr. Loncar, judge for yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43736	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. He's not in the O.R. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. (Goldibor Lonchar, from the scene: I answered the word. Do you want a word? Here, I didn't understand. Before we conclude, he has a word for this amendment, Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43737	Thank you. I just want to thank everyone and promise to work harder and better because it's just been a long time. We don't have time to waste, we have to make up for this because of our citizens, for our own and for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-17-0.u43738	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in the principle of detail and generality. I would like to thank Minister Lonchar and his associates for participating in today's session. I thank all the MPs for one quality democratic debate during today's day. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I remind you that in Article 168 of the 3rd and 4th centuries, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are scheduled to put on the agenda proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office, and that the National Assembly may decide on these proposals provided that most of the total number of MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 141 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present that there are conditions for deciding within the meaning of Article 168(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Momo Colaković and Branko Ružic. On the basis of Article 168(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have proposed to put the agenda of this session on the basis of an urgent procedure, on the basis of a proposal for a decision to suspend the functioning of the President of the Republic of Slovenia's Law Protection Commission in the public procurement proceedings, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 August 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – five abstentions – there are no, there are no three votes, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes of this proposal. On the basis of Article 168(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic's budget and the control of the spending of public funds have proposed to put on the agenda of this session the motion for a decision to elect the president and the two members of the Republic's Law Protection Commission in the public procurement proceedings, which has submitted to the National Assembly 17. December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – six abstentions – there are no, no two, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes of this proposal. We continue our work and move on to a unique search of the new, 14th agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION TO STOP THE FUNCTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC'S COMMISSION FOR THE PROTECTION OF RIGHTS IN PUBLIC ASSESSMENTS BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE UNIFORMAL SEARCH, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, MP Veroljub Arsic, chairman of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, want the word? Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Mr Dejan Radenkovic has the word.
