ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to respect the working time and the start of Parliament's work at 10.00 hours and to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, committees and parliamentary groups to hold before the start of the session, which is scheduled at 10.00 hours, as well as with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29326	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, my parliamentary question is being asked by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, and the reason why this parliamentary issue is being raised is for the functioning of the health care system in Užica and in the territory of the Zlatibor district. Namely, the Health Center in Užica was founded in 1990 and covers the area of the Zlatibor district, which has about 300,000 inhabitants. I would only ask, if I could, President, just a little bit to ensure the conditions so I could ask the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29327	As far as I'm concerned, he can, as far as the MPs are concerned, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29328	I thank you. So the Zlatibor County is about 300,000 inhabitants. The health care system is provided through the Health Center in which the system operates and works for 10 health homes and three hospitals. Four thousand health center employees accomplish those jobs and realise those jobs that are fundamentally important for providing health care to all users in the territory of the Zlatibor district. However, recently, due to inherited and accumulated problems, the Health Centre in Užica and the complete system of providing health services is in serious trouble. In time, the Ministry of Health reacted to these problems, given that the problems were inherited, and in a long time ago and that they had recently multipled and culminated, in this sense the question of whether the health care system would still be possible, or whether health services at the level of the Zlatibor County would collapse. What's this about? Currently, the Užica Health Centre has an account blockade of about nine million dinars with a trend in debt growth, i.e. a blockade of that account. It is this system of work that is, unfortunately, disabled, and above all, disabling what involves urgent actions by both General Hospitals in Užica and the Užic Health House, which numbers about 500 employees, that even patients who are in need of medical treatment and diagnosis are at risk not only in Uzic, but still in Belgrade. We have a problem with the House of Health having a car park of 20 and a few vehicles the current situation that these financial problems can't register. As soon as they cannot register, they cannot be used, which means sending patients to haemodialysis, to a higher level of health care at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, continue to be disabled. The patrol service will also not be able to function properly. The culmination has occurred in the last few days because even the recipe cannot be implemented in the manner prescribed by law, because there is even a situation that is paradoxical, which is that the prescription forms are no longer available. What makes this situation even more alarming is the fact that a system of complete public procurement is being implemented through the Užica Health Centre, so the question arises – will the suppliers of drugs and everything else, in view of such a large task, continue to deliver drugs, sanitary material and everything else that patients need? It also raises the question of how it will function without payments that were otherwise regular and orderly by the Republic Health Services, since this institution does not pay either, given the financial problems of the health center. Given that the Ministry of Health has always met the needs of providing health services and the Health Centre of Užica, given that it has always recognized these needs, I am sure that it will do so now and find the opportunity to solve these problems. Reminders for the sake of this, the health ministry recently recognized these problems provided a sanitary vehicle to the health center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29329	Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29330	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, on my behalf and on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, ask for a notice or perhaps a question for the Ministry of Culture and Minister Tasovac. Namely, the topic I want to initiate here and ask some questions is the "Nikole Tesla" Museum in Belgrade. We all know that this museum is in charge of the City of Belgrade, or the City Secretariat of Culture. On the occasion of the photograph that appeared in public, which I may have secretly expected to challenge the authenticity of the photograph, and since it did not happen, so the photograph is authentic, and after that we have a statement from the Ministry of Culture, which states about where the urn is with the dust and remains of Nikola Tesla, should continue to be, I think it has the basis to ask the Minister of Tasovac and the Ministry of Culture – whether there is a protocol or a domestic order, or a agenda that determines visits in every institution of the type of museum – gallery, whether it has a working time and whether he has a public time, which I think should be interested in, could he say at what time of the day and night the photograph that was taken in public these days? I guess it's not working time, is it? I don't know how visitors who were going to or intend to come to the "Nikole Tesla" Museum could consume their cultural and social needs, if at that moment there are persons sitting on some of the authorities, mattresses or carpets, if that's all normal, as I understand from the statement by the director of the "Nikole Tesla Museum in Belgrade and the Ministry of Culture, or Minister of Tasovac, I ask the question then – under what conditions do the other citizens of Serbia or the citizens of the world, since Nikola Tesla is one of the most important people in the history of science around the world, can come and hold sessions or what they think should be held in front of Nikola Tesla's clock? Let's say I have knowledge that the citizens are interested in keeping the settlements, toolas, pirates, rakias, if that's all right, as the Ministry of Culture and the director of the "Nikole Tesla" Museum in Belgrade says. These days, preparing to ask this question, with the help of young Internet-reading friends, I wanted to see what practice is in museums in the EU. We haven't found anything like this anywhere that we can see in a photo that's been broadcast in all the media these days. As the average man, the Serbian citizen, I am concerned with the silence and non-response of the so-called. workers in culture or cultural workers, to say is this okay, or is this not? If not, then everyone gets equal opportunity to, in their own way, as these people are from this photograph, honor or anything by Nikola Tesla. I want to remind all of us here that several years ago, a similar visit to the "Nikole Tesla" Museum is a Japanese sect, which I'm not going to say is called for the reason that I may not be able to reproduce their name exactly, but then I remember what happened in Japan, what that sect did. I'm not implying, and I'm not saying that these people who are in the photograph had that intention, but they think that they should simply respect the order of the house and know what is being done in that institution, not at the "Nikole Tesla" Museum, but at every museum or gallery. Imagine that there was an organized student visit to the “Nikole Tesla” Museum and that they came at a time when some people sit on some carpets, pillows, mattresses and do what they do, which I would not comment on. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Culture to answer this question within 15 days. I think this issue is not harmless and so naive and answers under which conditions and other Serbian citizens, in his opinion, can visit and use the "Nikole Tesla" Museum's premises in Belgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29331	Thank you. The word is Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29332	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, my question has been addressed to the director of BIA Mr. Aleksandar Djordjevic and refers to whether after the judgment of the High Court in Belgrade, which was rehabilitated on 14 May this year by General Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic, his personal items owned by the BIA, which are exhibited in the hall of the building in Banjaca, will be handed over to the Military Museum in Calemegdan or why not the Memorial of the House on the Straight Mountain. As a member of the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I was given the opportunity and personally to see these items that were exposed to the BIA. It is, therefore, about the inflow of feathers, notebooks, maps, glasses, gun, the uniform of General Mihajlovic. I think these items have great historical and museological value and that these acts of fact should be available to the public, or as it has been done to mark 65 years of victory over fascism when they were briefly presented to the public at the Military Museum, it now becomes part of the permanent position of this museum. I wrote to the BIA director, Mr. Nebojsa Rodic, in my time, demanding that these cases of General Mihajlovic be placed on the public eye and professional and wider, but unfortunately they were not done. Now these formal obstacles have been removed. I note that General Mihajlovic was rehabilitated by a court ruling. The second question is again in some way related to General Mihajlovic, namely the Ravnog Movement, which was referred to the minister of traffic in the Serbian government, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic and the director of the public business "Serbian Ways" to Mr Zoran Drobnjak, and refers to the road that leads to the Memorial of the home in Ravno Gora, in fact the complex within which the monument to General Mihajlovic is located, and that road is in very poor condition, it is almost impenetrable. I asked the question on October 7th of last year, and I received the answer that this road from Mionica via Struganika leads to Ravna Gora in the reconstruction plan, for rehabilitation, for repair and that it will be done by the end of last year. Unfortunately, this is not done, this road is in a very bad state, in some places there are major impact holes, it is still damaged because it is used by heavy trucks carrying a stone from a quarry located near Struganic, also a historic place, since in that village the Duke of Živojin Misic was born and that numerous visitors, student excursions, are practically impossible to visit his memorial house because of a road that is in such a bad state that it is almost impregnable and is exposed to the influence of weather opportunities and erosion, especially that these heavy trucks damage it. My third question, referred to the Director of the KIM Office, Mr. Mark Đurić, regarding the search for information on whether the Office did everything it needed and what was promised, when on Saturday 13 June the delegation of the Association of Citizens of the “Kraljevina Serbia” came to the administrative crossing of Raška, towards Kosovo and Metohija, at six o'clock in the morning, and was prevented from transporting humanitarian aid, intended for Serbian Orthodox temples, churches and monasteries, in the territory of KIM. In fact, it's two tons of humanitarian aid made up of food and hygiene...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29333	Thanks. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29334	... and it was promised by the Office that this assistance would be able to be transported and delivered, but it was not enabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29335	I thank the MP. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29336	Dear Members of the Parliament, I would like to say that it is indisputable that the Halal market is a great export opportunity for the Serbian food industry. The Halal food market is the fastest growing market and currently is worth about $650 billion a year, while at the same time it has been recognised in Serbia and around 40 large companies have provided a Halal certificate. These are, above all, "Diamant" from Zrenjanin, "Voda Vujic", Milkar from Subotica, "Paracinka" etc. At a time of the global economic crisis, certain markets, such as this, are inaccessible. Islamic countries generally do not have a sufficient amount of food and food products, and this is a really great opportunity for Serbia's food industry. Halal, among other things, you all know well, prohibits the use of pig meat, or processing, or various emulsifiers used on that basis, which are used in the production of certain foods, but prohibits the use of and alcohol, as well as animal blood, since blood is the one carrying toxins and the place as a basis for the development of microorganisms. The request that Halal puts before producers is the strictest in the area of the meat and milk industry, and the animal must, of course, be treated carefully, to be healthy and alive, and the person who performs the act of worship must be mentally healthy and able to do so. Of course, halal food is not limited to Muslims and its most common consumptions in the world today are people who are not Islamic religions and who recognize what quality is, what is healthy life, clean and safe food. What makes me very happy and commendable is that we are currently in the process of introducing halal food in the military, which has been waiting for a really long time. This shows that the state of Serbia respects the diversity of its citizens and respects the religious specialities of its inhabitants. Of course, this trend needs to be extended to all social institutions, especially state hospitals, college cafeterias, penitentiary offices, and this congregation restaurant that we use here. For us, believing people it is really of immeasurable importance, as there is a segment of organic nutrition, in serious societies it is also important to respect the segment of halal nutrition, kosher nutrition, organic nutrition, vegetarian nutrition, etc. I would therefore like to make a suggestion and encourage the Ministry of Justice to start the process of introducing halal food in military facilities as soon as possible to all other state institutions. The growing quality of relations with the Arab world, with Turkey, as well as the growing number of tourists visiting our country, who consume Halal food, is another serious argument. Finally, by respecting the Halal certificates in this country, we best show everyone we want to export halal products, that we are seriously implementing the rules in food production, which are absolutely imperative for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29337	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29338	I thank Madam President, on 21 May I asked the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Mr Verbić, and this was about reducing the number of students to attend the Technical School in Majdanpek for school 2015 – 2016. In April, a meeting was held in Bor where, apart from the directors of all secondary schools from the region, the head of the School Administration Zaječar, Mr. Maric and the assistant minister of secondary education, Mr. Kostic, attended. It is agreed that at the Technical School, four directions per 30 students are approved, both mechanical, electrical, economic and tourist. On that occasion, 30 students were scheduled to be enrolled in High School. The contest, which was later announced by the ministry, turned out to be an unauthorized enrolment for 30 Technical School students, directed by an economic technician. I note that this decision was not familiar with Mr. Maric, who is the head of the school board of Zaječar. This school year, in Majdanpek, 175 students graduate, the possibility of enrolment in the Ministry's secondary school has only 120 students. So 55 students won't be able to get into high school in their municipality. On May 28th, the Technical School's Board of Parents initiative launched a petitioning campaign to return the Technical School department to the economic direction. In one hour, the petition was signed by over a thousand Majdanpek citizens and the petition was sent to the ministry. Citizens of Majdanpek, and I am interested in who made the decision to abolish the direction – economic technician, at Technical School and on what basis, and whether there is a possibility of that decision changing. I note that I also asked the Ministry the same question through the relevant Assembly Committee, and I thank all my fellow Members for their understanding and support. Minister Verbic may feel he has no obligation to answer the parliamentary question not after 26 days, but I think it is necessary to respond to a petition signed by over a thousand Majdanpek citizens. I also have a question for the Minister of Economy, Mr Sertic. After the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act, RTB Bor entered a group of 17 companies, which have been protected in some ways over the next year. I assume the government will monitor closely what and how management in these companies is doing, as well as in RTB Bor. RTB Bor director said recently after the construction of Topionica that there was no more air pollution in Bor. I'm really glad that the citizens of Bora can finally breathe with their lungs. I will remind the director of RTB Bor and Minister Verbic that Bakar Majdanpek, part of RTB Bor, and that the citizens of Majdanpek expect to breathe without a huge amount of dust coming from the surface Kopa that is on the edge of the city. In these hot summer days, dust from the surface spear covered the city. Question for Minister Verbic, is he familiar with this problem of the citizens of Majdanpek and what will RTB Bor do to resolve this problem? I also have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Bogosavljevic-Boskovic. Is she aware of the problem of the citizens of Majdanpek and what will her ministry do as competent to improve the state of the environment in Majdanpek? In the hope of getting a final answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29339	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29340	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, the question that we are asking today as the DS Parliament Club and on its own behalf is, is there a strategy for the development of domestic tourism? We are a little confused with the Serbian prime minister's announcements, because tax incentives are being announced for domestic tourism, and it is still unclear how and how this will be implemented. We also do not understand why I am announcing tax incentives, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance since 14 April 2015 for the first time interpreted, I quote, – When an employer on the burden of his own resources provides employees with participation in activities aimed at strengthening the team spirit of the so-called team. "Tim Bilding", such income represents an advantage to employees who are subject to income tax and pay contributions to compulsory social insurance on the basis of earnings. In other words, over 80% of the capacity of the out-of-profit centres in Serbia, which are, of course, the large cities of Serbia, in the interior of Serbia, 80% of tourism activities, hotels and capacities are filled exclusively by the fact that employers or employers in the public or private sector send workers to the so-called. "team Bilding" for business education, in order to establish a better business organisation, in order to develop a team spirit, for business workshops. What is our question is why is the Ministry of Finance actually doing the exact opposite of the one proposed by the Serbian prime minister, because this decision by the Ministry of Finance will in the end prevent further development of tourism, which just says that the strategy for the development of domestic tourism in Serbia absolutely does not exist? When it comes to members of the interior ministry, the armies of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to private sector workers, they will not be sent by employers to so-called. For the simple reason that costs are increasing by 60% of the value of the travel organisation itself. So in what number of 70,000 dinars per person will be allocated in the future, another six thousand dinars will have to be paid because the Ministry of Finance has a special interpretation for the first time in its history. In the end, tourism in Serbia will not live because of several 5,000 dinar vouchers. In this way, the finance ministry contributes to Serbia's internality outside the economic centres completely freezing tourism activity. What has been the practice so far has been that those hoteliers who have lived on corporate, day-to-day or multi-day trips will no longer be because the costs are increasing by 60% when it comes to taxes. Compared to 2011, when the Ministry of Finance released the employee from paying the income tax, it is now 60% higher which will reduce the activity by 80% when it comes to tourism in Serbia's non-profit centres. What is also important is the clarification of tax incentives for the development of domestic tourism, for the simple reason that in this case, when it comes to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to the Ministry of the same government, they have the exact opposite of seeing the development of domestic tourism, which will fully contribute to the collapsing of regulations and announcements of confusion, above all, citizens who might want to stay this summer in Serbia, fly to Serbia, will not do so for a simple reason, which is not clear how and how tax incentives will be made possible to those who decide to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29341	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29342	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer the first question to the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Mrs Zorani Mihajlovic. So, as we know, one of the most important infrastructure projects in Novi Sad is the construction of the Žeželjev Bridge, whose basic value is construction without additional works around 45m euros. The construction of this bridge began in 2011 and the deadline for its completion was 32 months, i.e. until November 2013. However, as we could see at the gym itself, the works were very weak, and in 2014 they almost did not perform at all. First of all, because the AP Duke's contractor did not pay the money for construction within the agreed deadlines. Well, for example, I have some information that the AP Vojvodina has been late with the payment of temporary situations since the conclusion of the contract in total over 500 days and on average for six situations, at each situation for about 90 days. Also, I have information that the AP Vojvodina is currently late both with payment and after an annex contract concluded in May of this year, in which according to Vojvodina Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic, however, no payments remain. In this way, how would we show the citizens of Novi Sad that the government of Bojan Pajtic is only thinking of itself and not of the interests of the citizens, please answer my question, how total and average number of days in which the Government of the AP Vojvodina was late with payments according to the temporary situations highlighted by the bridge performer? Is it true that by today, by 16.6.05, no payment by the AP Vojvodina has yet been made, although it was an annex obligation that was concluded a month ago, or 19.5.2015, and most importantly, how much damage did Serbian citizens suffer because of these delays? The next question would be asked by the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. First of all, I would like to thank him for opening a new police station with Mayor Milos Vučević in New Sad settlements New settlements and Satellite, and for starting work this year in February. Also, I think the results of this police station are already visible. Most of the officers are in the field and I can say for sure that they will certainly act preventively and currently act preventively on all possible perpetrators of the crime, which is certainly better than that repressive component that the police have, and I welcome it. However, it is necessary to increase the capacity of this police station, because there is indeed a large number of citizens in these settlements, and therefore I ask the minister to answer my question, when will this police station, or this police department get the character of the police station and when will it start working at full capacity, and all to increase the security of citizens in this village? I would also ask the question, also the interior minister, Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, about the criminal proceedings against some persons, one of whom is a DS official, which refers to abuses during the reconstruction of the Hetherland Castle in New Vienna. As we know, the province's government headed by Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic has transferred more than 80m dinars through the Capital Investment Fund to a newly-sed firm, or about 700m euros to perform works on the reconstruction of the Hetherland Castle. There's a little dyspression there, you know? It's an unusual fact that the same firm was transferred to the city's construction office, while at the head of the city's construction office, more than 350 million dinars were transferred to the name of any projects, so that's clear if you can connect something. The building of this castle was aimed at houseing children from Milan Petrovic School. What's characteristic is that now you can go to the scene and see that absolutely nothing was done at the reconstruction of that castle, that it was transferred over 80 million dinars. So that money went missing in someone's pockets. So, I ask you, Mr. Minister, to show that the government of Bojan Pajtic is illegally spending money on Serbian citizens, to answer my question, is it true that a criminal procedure is being conducted for the reconstruction of the Hetherland Castle, which is the amount suspected of being damaged by Serbian citizens and when can we expect the outcome of this criminal procedure, or the first indictment in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29343	Thank you. Does anyone else appear on this floor for a word? Nobody. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nada Lazic, Vanja Vukić, Stefana Miladinović, Branko Ružic, Dr Milorad Mijatović and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to review the draft laws and other acts of the agenda set out in the request of the Government to hold an emergency session as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 8th and 9th sessions of the First Regular Session and the Third Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the People's Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 19, 20 and 21 May 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 36 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 8th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 25, 26 and 27 May 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, no one, abstentioned – has voted 30 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 25 May 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 29 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, the following Dn e v n e d: 1. Proposal for a law on defense against the city, 2. Proposal for a law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military-technical co-operation, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on co-operation in the field of defence, 6. Proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015, 7. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty (the Modernisation of Schools Programme) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1. Joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on Defence against the City, Proposal for a Law on Incendiary and Fuel Liquids and Incendiary Gases and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act; and 2. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military-technical co-operation, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Co-operation in the field of defence, Proposal for a Decision adopting the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 and the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 27, of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Minister of Interior, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Natalija Pavlovic Šiniković, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ivan Zarev, Head of the Department for Prevention Protection at the Department of Emergency Affairs, Đorđe Kardum, Assistant Commissioner for Risk Management at the Emergency Sector, Tatjana Zeljković Babic, Head of the Department for Normal Affairs at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Jelena Đurić, Legal Advisor for Normal Affairs at the Ministry of Interior. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a proposal for a law on defence against the city, a draft law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases and a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29344	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Stefanovic, respected guests from the MUP, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, I believe it is my turn that on the basis of members 249, 250 and 251. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which define the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, we Members of the National Assembly, but also of the citizens and citizens of our Republic, receive information as to why we did not have a session of the National Assembly for 19 days, respected presidents of the National Assembly. Nineteen days we haven't met here to discuss the draft laws contained in the congregation procedure. Since the applicant for an extraordinary session can be the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have concluded, respected gentlemen and respected National Assembly presidents, that the government, but also the Prime Minister, may be tired of working hard because they have not sent to the Assembly for these 19 days a proposal to schedule a session. I, the Honorable President, have noticed by reading the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that 84 MPs can also apply for an extraordinary session. Eighty-four MPs here have a SNS, respected presidents of the National Assembly. I then concluded that Mr Babic and the MPs of the SNS were also tired. I ask you, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, to inform us what is the reason for the National Assembly's session not to be scheduled for all of 19 days, when at the beginning of this call we have finely agreed here that we will work day and night. If there's no idea of an argument, our bill of law stands in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29345	Thank you. Questions and notifications, it went through in the previous session, so I can't answer your injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You abused the institution. However, I will not take your time from your five minutes, it would not be correct of me, but I think within a year that every MP could have learned the business provisions. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29346	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People, I advertise Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refers to the role of the President of the National Assembly, and concerning the violation of the Constitution of Article 54, which was made by the president and members of the Committee on Administrative Affairs who violated Article 54. The constitution says: "A peaceful gathering of citizens is free. Freedom of assembly can only be restricted by law if it is necessary to protect public health, morals, the rights of other or security of the Republic of Serbia." Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, you failed to point out that the Administrative Board made an unconstitutional decision when it restricted the gathering in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This, therefore, can only be done by law to the quoted member of the Constitution, and I will repeat once again, in order to protect public health, morals, the rights of other or security of the Republic of Serbia. Please, President of the National Assembly, use your authority and put that decision out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29347	It's not my jurisdiction to put aside the power of a body's decision or parliament. You didn't get that right. Article 27, to which you have called, has no point of contact with your presentation at all, but for informing the public there is no ban on gathering in front of parliament. If someone wants to abuse a political thing and interpret what he wants or wants it to look like, that's another thing. So Article 27 has nothing to do with what you said, I'm not putting it to a vote. I can't break the Rules of Procedure. If you're asking me not to break it, then I can't even put it to the vote. Article 27 hasn't been broken, nor has the decision you're talking about been made. We might like to, but the decision hasn't been made. The word is from the peoples of the Parliament of Zoran Babic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29348	Thank you, Madam President. Article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I thank you for this explanation, because it is bad when a national MP, and especially when a doctor of law does not read the decision about how it was made and how it was decided, and it is decided that there is no gathering in front of the National Assembly, but in the courtyard of the National Assembly, not on the public surface in front of the House of the National Assembly, but here it is in malice as you said in the rest, Mrs Gojkovic. If someone liked a vacation, if it could be called a vacation, it was nice for fellow Pavicevic, because we see by the social networks that he was taking a bath in Montenegro, that he was causing tennis matches, that he was hanging out with citizens in short pants, unlike SNS and my colleagues and colleagues, because yesterday, for example, we were with citizens of Surcin, talking about their problems, about solving not in short pants, not tennis rackets, not at sea for 19 days, because if someone got tired, and looking at social networks, it was fatigued by fellow Pavicevic and this break was appropriate for him. On the other hand, if we look at the way the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia function, all colleagues and colleagues can see that from the moment the SNS took over parliamentary leadership, that Mr Stefanovic was also president, and now Mrs Gojkovic, there is not a single month since 2012 when parliament did not work, unlike Mr Pavicevic's period and those people sitting in front of him when there were only spring and autumn sessions, when parliament worked only from Tuesday to Thursday, when he worked only three months in the spring and three months in the autumn, and everything else was a vacation, but it was a policy of Boris Tadic, DS and people who led this country and this parliament. This is the time of activity, the SNS is in the field with citizens and in the interest of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29349	This time, the abused member is 107, and more replicas than any other. I won't take the time, because I'm not an MP either. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I have now said that three MPs have abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I will not abuse. You sure, 'cause then I'm gonna take two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29350	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, has just been injured by a member of 103. The Rules of Procedure define the possibility of a member of the Parliament to orally point to a breach in the conduct of the President and, in our case, to the President of the National Assembly. Dear President Gojkovic, Mr Babic just reported to indicate that you injured the Rules of Procedure and instead of explaining how you injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr Babic described some things from Twitter, Facebook, from social networks that do not concern the possibility of someone explaining how the Rules of Procedure was injured. Dear President, I have been patiently waiting these 19 days for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to be scheduled. Along with MP Zoran Zivkovic in the assembly procedure, Mrs Gojkovic, directed three draft laws, proposed to the SNS MPs that if...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29351	I thank you, MP. In the first part, you drew attention to Article 103...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29352	Then tell me that Mr. Babic has really abused the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29353	I told everyone. So, all three of you abused the Rules of Procedure. I was so intolerant that we could start working. Thank you very much. We're moving to the agenda point. Does the president of the promoter, the minister of the MUP, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29354	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, for the past few years we have witnessed a number of natural disasters and the impact of these fundamental disasters on the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and the overall economy. The territory of the Republic of Serbia is often exposed to the city's action in terms of a major natural disaster, and more frequent and devastating accidents followed by the city are expected in the future due to an increasing climate impact. In talks with the European Commission and in the previous period, long-term forecasts for the Balkans are such that we can expect more floods, more cities, more fires in our territory. That's the air conditioning. But the problem with the laws that governed this area was that we didn't have them, what this case was, or we last passed them so many years ago that all standards changed dramatically. For the last time, the Republic of Serbia had a legally decorated defence against the city in 1992. In 1992, we last had a law that defines this area, and then the law was put out of force and since then the anti-building protection jobs were within the RHMZ to move into the jurisdiction of the MUP in 2012. However, the removal of defence from the city from RHMZ to the ministry did not give the expected results and implementation of the anti-building protection was marked by a number of accompanying problems. The transfer of competence in 2011 was arranged without adequate preparations for the adoption of a very specific area. Taking responsibility, of course, for employees and equipment themselves, was the easiest step. However, the integration of jobs and employees into the MUP system and the creation of other assumptions for functioning had to be implemented with the simultaneous effort to keep the anti-building protection system working without any consequences. The tasks of hydrometeorological measurements and forecasts are inseparable from meteorological monitoring and are jointly involved in the establishment of a city's defence system in the context of a comprehensive system of hydrometeorological activity. That brings us back to the story of the RHMZ. One of the most important and visible problems arises from the involvement of a person who deals with anti-building protection in terms of shooting, i.e. the fact of the city clouds we call "the shooters" and the acquisition of anti-urban missiles. Due to the specificity of the position of the shooters, because they contracted only a number of months during the year, so the city's defence season starts on April 15th and lasts until October 15th, and they are paid only for those months when they act and act on city clouds. Also, the details of their working-law status, the way they were engaged, training, etc. were very complicated. The Republic hydrometeorological institution continues to carry out their engagement work, while, on the other hand, the anti-building missile provides, supplies and distributes the Ministry of Interior. We have a hydrometeorological office that, with its systems, monitors the movement of city clouds, hires and payments were part of the burden of the Hydrometeorological Institute and local self-government, and the Ministry of Interior is getting missiles. In a system that is so divided, there is no possibility of an adequate response and a single, successful system of anti-building protection. Since 1992, when the law was put out of force at that time, until, I hope, this week, when we adopt this law, if the National Assembly so decides, we have one legal void in which this area is partly governed by other laws in the jurisdiction of other authorities, it is partly governed by sublaws and one practice that has clearly shown that this is not the best way to organise anti-urban protection. Therefore, the adoption of the bill before you today will establish preconditions for an incomparably more efficient system of anti-building protection and the return of competence to the only body that can successfully coordinate the work of the anti-urban protection – the hydrometeorological institution. Among other things, today we are discussing only one member - amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, which defines the jurisdiction of anti-urban protection at the Hydrometeorological Institute, which is under the management supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture and is being removed from the Ministry of the Interior, where this really does not make sense. When I spoke to my colleagues, I made an argument. Because if logic because of the existence of the Emergency Sector in the MUP was to deal with this, then we should manage both "Serbian" and "Serbian". Because how are we supposed to be responsible for spilling rivers if we don't build dikes? How are we supposed to be responsible for the slides if we don't build roads? And that, of course, is a completely wrong way of thinking. From the same logic, we cannot be held accountable for the prevention of anti-urban protection when the Emergency Sector is dealing with other matters entirely. We naturally return this to the Hydrometeorological Institute, which has a way of predicting, monitors the creation of these city clouds and, of course, all the other phenomena that can affect this. The interior ministry drafted and the government passed a bill on defence against the city after 20 years of legal emptiness. That law is in front of you today. We have conducted extensive public debates and with interested professional associations, with representatives of local self-government, with other state bodies, with private companies and we have recently had before the National Assembly this bill, which has been withdrawn, precisely because of consultations and remarks of one piece and local self-government and other institutions that asked for this law to be corrected. We have managed to compromise this system to be efficient and to respect the reality and way of functioning of certain institutions and local self-government on the ground. The proposed law lays down, first of all, the rights and obligations of the competent authorities, the AP authorities, the bodies of the unit of local self-government, the republican authorities, the authorities of the state administration. This proposal for the city's defence laws sees as part of a unique system of protection and rescue of people, material and cultural goods and environments, from natural disasters and other accidents and in fact, as one of the key principles, establishing the principle of preventive protection, through one established system of preventive measures, in order to reduce the risk of life and health, by material goods. In addition to a clear division of jurisdiction among the city's defence system entities, one of the most important issues covered by this proposal is the financing of defence operations against the city. It was very important to regulate this issue, to ensure a stable and secure system of funding, which would ensure sustainability for the city's defence affairs, to deal with one part with the state, and the other part with local self-government and autonomous province. Today you have the practice that a large number of local self-governments, between 70% and 80% of local self-governments, are touching and helping anti-building protection, whether by paying additional shooters or by participating in the purchase of missiles. Some even build smaller launch stations and that's the thing that's really commendable by these local self-governments that are the most engaged. We are today, by adopting this bill, trying to solve these problems, to ensure a uniform and continuous inflow of funds, but also to define that the Republic of Serbia is taking over the system of building launch stations, maintaining and providing launch stations, supplying missiles, while local self-government and AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the law on their responsibilities, will be able to help one part of the anti-building protection system and maintain access routes, and help fund the shooters, but these key jobs around the launch ramps, around the radar systems, about control, will have a Republic of Serbia. The bill was, as I said, the subject of broad consultation and with scientific and educational institutions and associations of farmers, units of local self-government and is the result of a working group composed of experts in this area, who used regulatory documents of the World Meteorology and other international organisations that are important for protection issues against elementary disasters, as well as the existing practice of developed countries. Given all of this, we have before us a bill that we believe will contribute to establishing, or, rather, to start establishing a sustainable defense system against the city, which will help us to have less damage every year, which will make our country safer in this sense. Also, we have before us a bill on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases. These liquids and these gases represent the inevitable energies of which both industry and traffic and other branches of the economy depend, so, in fact, the need for the regulation of the institution under which these substances are safely placed on the market, products, storage and use. We also have the fact that this law provides for conditions for the establishment, construction, reconstruction, adaptation and rehabilitation, as well as the use of premises, facilities and facilities for the production, processing, storage, holding and transport of these materials. Of course, all this is in line with the Law on Planning and Construction and Prescription of These Conditions will create the necessary degree of security, both legal entities that do business in any way with these substances, their employees, and all other physical and real persons and their property in terms of fire protection and explosion. That protection may be achieved in the event of the adoption of a new law which will cover everything in this area. The existing legal regulations for this area today are in the Law on Explosive Matters, Inflammable Liquids and Gases, which was adopted in 1977. You can imagine how much has changed since 1977, how much our technological solutions at the time are not consistent with real needs, with modern standards. Such damages and damages pose different difficulties when granting approval, permits and anything related to the placing on the market or management of flammable gases or fuel liquids. Since the outdated regulation is drastically out of date and its solutions do not follow these modern technical solutions in the area of security and security, we are adapted to world regulations, we have the obligation to adopt, above all, a legislative regulation covering the area of explosive matter and regulation covering the area of flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases. For these reasons, the law in question, which existed in one 1977 law, must be divided into two laws today. In addition to the law we are talking about today, it is also planned to pass a law on exclusive matter whose text will be united with the relevant European directives, and of course this is one of our obligations provided for by the National Plan for the adoption of EU legal flows from 2013 to 2016. In relation to the applicable legal solution, this law does not cover the transport of flammable and fuel liquids, flammable gases regulated by other regulations, nor explosive matter. The placing on the market of flammable and fuel liquids, flammable gases shall not be subject to the harmonisation of this law and shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations governing chemicals. The new law relies on the regulations of modern European countries and does not provide for the transposition of European directives in the process of its adoption because they do not exist. The new law regulates the area of handling flammable fluids and gases, control in the process of production, storage, their distribution, as well as inspection and measures and criminal provisions against infringements of legal provisions. In view of the subject of the regulation of the Law on flammable and fuel liquids and incendiary gases through which a clear system of prevention of the production and spread of fires and explosions and fire extinguishing is established, as well as the implementation of supervision of the same, in conditions in which there is a certain degree of development of the protection and security system is very affirmative for various economic activities, i.e. the creation of new economic operators and the support of competition. The proposed legislative solutions have a positive effect in terms of increasing the number of operators in the market whose business is related to this area, leading to greater competition in this area in terms of providing services, as well as the production and installation of equipment for the application of the measures of this law. By law, we expect a significant increase in the number of new foreign businesses in this area, given that the bill is in line with international standards and best international practice. Law-making will ensure that all legal assumptions that the Republic of Serbia has achieved absolute legislative arrangements in this area in line with modern technical achievements and EU regulations. With all this in mind, I urge you to vote for the proposed laws that are before you today because indeed after a long time this law since 1977, and the anti-urban protection law doesn't even exist since it was put out of force in 1992, that we will, for the first time in many years, legally regulate these areas and have the opportunity to get more efficient systems and protection from the city, but also the management of these dangerous substances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29355	The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29356	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, distinguished guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I have the personal satisfaction of speaking today when the Anti-Build Protection Act is on the agenda because I am one of the MPs who has been asking a parliamentary question three times over the past year with only one topic, and that is – when will the Anti-Government Protection Act be adopted? Why is this subject so important? Because hundreds of thousands of farmers in Serbia tremble every day and fear whether there will be a city or not. You said yourself we haven't had the law since 1992. Unfortunately, one true agony has lasted since 2011 when I don't know what reason it is and I don't know what experiment this area from the hydrometeorological institute has gone from to the emergency sector in the MUP where it's never been in place and where we see how badly that worked. I have to say that from year to year we have huge damages from the city, and you yourself have mentioned that even the weather in the future is not going to work and we can only think that these damages will be bigger and more years in the future. What is important now and what should be noted is that this law, unlike earlier proposals, ends one very important thing, which is that the system remains unique. The key thing about this Anti-Build Protection Act is that the anti-Build Protection system is unique, so that, by amending this Ministry Act, it returns to the Hydrometeorological Institute. What is crucial and what I have proposed to amend with one amendment is Article 19. The bill, and Article 19 states that the supervision of the application of the provisions of this law and of the regulations adopted under it is carried out by the competent authority in accordance with the law, I have made clear and defined that this supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and that every citizen of Serbia knows who is responsible if the system does not work and of course who is responsible for the damage. Unfortunately, local self-government, above all, in Serbia in previous years have been left at the mercy of seeing citizens organised to defend the city. Since I have been running Topola Municipality for ten years now, Topola is one of the few municipalities, and in 2011, we started buying anti-building missiles in Serbia with Smederevo and Cačka. I also have to say when I first started out as the president of the municipality in the procurement of anti-building missiles that there were huge problems about it. Today, thanks to God, this procedure has been simplified and the tumors have been simplified to thank the Emergency Sector, who had the understanding that at least this procurement works in a fast and efficient way. What we have in general for trouble today, and if we buy missiles, first of all, is control over that so-called. The shooters and another bigger problem, which I must point out, which is the work of the people at the radar centers. I have to mention one example that we in Šumadia paid dearly in 2013, which is in 2013, a city that happened, and unfortunately in 2014 when we had anti-urban missiles, we had more than a hundred anti-urban missiles that we bought from the funds of what local self-government, which by our own means of the citizens who co-financed and when the city happened at night simply the shooters didn't get an order to shoot and there was damage estimated at about eight million euros. Unfortunately, to this day, the damage has not been compensated and now a court dispute has taken place where citizens themselves have organised and sued the state and are seeking damages because according to the court's skills, there has been a problem in the functioning of the Bucharest Radar Centre, and their negligence has caused enormous damages that are measured by millions of euros. Also, one big problem, I mentioned earlier, shooters. We in Šumadija also have in municipalities across Serbia a lot of co-financed municipalities, as the minister already noted, shooters. But the problem is big if you don't have control over the work and efficiency of those shooters. What does that mean exactly? This means that in municipalities co-financed by their work, we should receive an annual report on which of these shooters were on their own, to say, a work assignment when the alarm came, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia heard and should know that this season lasts six months, from 15 April to 15 October, and on average the last ten years in Serbia, they were between 100 and 110 days, to say, some kind of alarm, and that's about half the time, about three, three and a half months when they had full-time intervention and when they had to be, to say, awake and be ready to intervene. What happens if they're not? The ones we're paying right now, we need to get the information right, and that's why I have to point out Article 9. A bill that provides for the jurisdiction of local self-government units right when selecting shooters. I have already praised in this bill that it is a good thing that the system remains unique, that the Republic is funding the entire system, but that here local self-government is left with the possibility that they can participate in both the purchase of rockets and the financing of shooters, but it has to be taken care of here, the respected ministers, that then the local self-governments that do all this get an annual report on how this system worked for the previous year and that they get a precise report on who is of the shooters from their territory, I say, failed to change it. Because of citizens watching this transmission, and because of fellow MPs, it should also be said that this entire system at an annual level costs between eight and nine million euros, it means buying anti-urban missiles and financing shooters. So the whole system costs between eight and nine million euros, and we only for a year, here in 2015 since the beginning of the year we have had damages that are measured by tens of millions of euros from the city. Many will now say, Serbian citizens who are watching – why should we now pay from the budget anti-urban protection, why do farmers, or farmers, not organise and pay insurance policy? Now I'm going to tell you, Mr. Minister, why they don't pay and why the percentage of agricultural crop insurance in Serbia is only 10%. Because we have, unfortunately, the only country in the world that has the practice that when a farmer secures his crops in certain insurance houses that the same insurance house comes to assess the damage that happens, for example, because of the city. Do you believe now, is there somewhere else in the world, and we want to be in the EU, that those who need to pay you harm should be adequately assessed? Unfortunately, we have experience that even from my municipality, the municipality of Topol, people from 2010 are having litigation with individual insurance houses to manage to charge something for the damage that happened in 2010. Dear Ministers, when I mention the damage, I filed on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club an amendment concerning Article 9(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The bill, which concerns the assessment of the damage, says local self-government is required to carry out an assessment of the damage to agricultural cultures within seven days. I have asked you, and I am glad that I have come to understand, both you and other fellow Members of Parliament, that the final assessment is impossible in seven days. I have submitted an amendment to carry out a preliminary assessment of the damage within seven days, and that the final assessment of the damage is the longest within 45 days, because you are all here to witness that, especially in fruit cultures within seven days, you cannot even theoretically carry out a final assessment of the damage. What I must say and what my colleague from the Parliament Club, who is the Master of Literature, Mrs. Zlata Đerić, draws attention to, and that is that you, in one member of the law, are Article 2, in the second row, saying that "urban clouds", and in the third row you say "urban clouds", so I would ask you, first of all, your associates, that this is not a written composition and that the laws should be clear. If the laws are clear, then in one appropriate way, it must be defined whether the clouds are urban or urban, since they must be clearly and accurately qualified. What I would also specifically point out is that you in one article have accepted suggestions that you will accept the amendment, which is that the preparation of the city's defence system in the Serbian government is adopted by April 15th. We believe that this is not a good solution, that this report in the Government must be adopted by April 1st at the latest, because on April 15th, the fact and the city's defence season begins, and if there are 15, 20 shooters missing in certain local self-governments, or if the launch ramps are broken, when you will arrive to fix them and hire other shooters, if you will adopt a report on April 15th whether the system is in function or not. That is why I would also like to thank other fellow Members of the People who supported this proposal for the adoption of this report by 1 April at the latest for the current calendar year. I have already noted that it is very important that the signing of a contract with shooters passes to the RHMZ, it is important because of local self-government which has so far been co-financed by the shooters themselves, which because of the employment ban regulations had a problem with hiring people. This is now an appropriate way to solve this problem. What's very important for the future is to provide funds to make this system work. I have already noted that about eightm euros is needed. On the very sources of funding, you pointed out in the Bill's proposal that for these needs 10% of the mandatory insurance of registered agricultural holdings will be allocated. When I made a preliminary assessment of how much money could be collected in the territory of the Republic of Serbia when the total number of registered owners was taken into account, I reached about a million, million and a half euros on an annual basis. Mr. Minister, those aren't enough resources. I even suggested an amendment to raise it to 50% of mandatory insurance policies, because I already said that insurance houses are very rude about paying the damage, primarily farmers. You told me that insurance houses would be very difficult to agree to, but I can tell you, here's an example of the Republic of Croatia that has a 25% separation from mandatory. At Serbia's level, 25% would already bring nearly threem euros, and this could in one appropriate way resolve the secure financing of the system, not even the shooters have to think whether these six months will receive compensation, nor local self-government whether there will be a rocket to make this system work. Dear Mr. Minister, I am also pleased that you have accepted, compared to the previous bill, that the compensation to the shooters is 20% of the average personal income at the level of the Republic. It's between eight and nine thousand dinars, and I think it's something that can be done in an adequate way to satisfy people who will be hired for those six months. Also, what is important is that these people are allowed to have certified health books, not to give God, due to certain injuries that can happen that can at least adequately be treated. What I don't like about this bill, Mr. Minister, is the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province. I don't get it at all, that's what I mentioned yesterday, why in particular one member is being placed here by the AP and I told you to give me a country in Europe where you have mid-level authorities that have anything to do with anti-urban protection? It is not really clear to me, and that is why I have even suggested that Article 8 of the bill be completely deleted, which defines that the AP authorities, when they are directly co-operated with the competent authorities, other state authorities and units of local self-government within their responsibilities in the area of defence from the city for the AP area, could do so, and that they are not particularly here in this Member of the law. It says – provide support for the functioning of the city's defence system and co-operate with regions and municipalities of neighbouring countries according to these and other laws. I absolutely don't understand who they're going to cooperate with when in the law of other countries, first of all in the environment, which is Croatia and Hungary, we don't have anywhere there, I say once again, mid-level authorities have anything to do with anti-urban protection. I can understand if an amendment is accepted, I must point out in particular, if an amendment is accepted that the percentage proposed by the amendment by the Committee on Agriculture, that 5% of the assets received from the annual rent for the state agricultural land, because when they are paid the percentages go – the Republic, the local self-government, one percent goes to the Autonomous Region, that if they are taken by 5%, which could be about three million euros per year, if that amendment were accepted then and there is some logic to be an Autonomous Province in this bill. So, without that amendment to put the Autonomous Province in advance, I think it is completely without logic and only complicates one law that is basically a good, quality law that should be passed, first of all, peace and quiet in the family of agricultural producers in Serbia, that the state cares about its farmers, that they can defend their crops and their orchards in an adequate way and, on the other hand, that you, Mr. Ministers, will, first of all, contribute to the government as soon as possible to adopt a change of what I have already said, which will certainly speed up the percentage of compulsory insurance, i.e. insurance of agricultural crops, which is that the assessment of the damages will no longer be in the insurance houses themselves that have to pay for this damage. Mr. Minister, of course, New Serbia will in principle support this law in the voting day. We expect you to plead first and foremost on these proposed amendments and I hope that in the coming years ahead of this house there will be a report from the Ministry of Agriculture that will oversee the implementation of this law and that we will have, once again, in the coming years because of this law peace and calm, that people will no longer have to take tranquilizers whenever there is a great cloud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29357	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29358	Thank you. Thank you for your correct participation in these past few months and for the support you and your MP group have given. I thank, of course, and all the parliamentary groups that participated in the discussion before this session, wishing to make some additional contribution to the further improvement of this legislative proposal. Of course, I also thank the Serbian Progressive Party MP group who agreed to adopt some of these proposals, without which it would not be possible in parliament in fact. What you're talking about, I think we've reached a consensus that this report has to be filed by April 1st, because it's quite logical, as you said, since season starts at 15, in order to have at least two weeks to address possible shortcomings. Of course, we hope there won't be any. As far as the damage report is concerned, it's also another topic we agreed on. So, preliminaryly seven days, then the longest in 45 days. The sooner, the better, of course, so people can have compensation eventually. As for two things, I asked the experts, since I didn't know the difference between urban and urban clouds, and there's a difference. Since it's from professional terminology, at least as I've been explained, the city's dangerous ones are the ones who can become mayoral clouds. So they're not in that final stage of ice development yet. Those who are mayoral, they are indeed mayoral, and from them will certainly be a city without fact. Anyway, since it's a professional thing, we left it to the experts. So, it's not about the misunderstanding of termology, at least that's what I'm told. As far as this topic is concerned, both Mr. Maric and I and our secretariat are responsible for local self-government and AP. Our final view is that the AP Vojvodina should have certain responsibilities for protecting against the city, precisely because it has certain competences under our law and Constitution in managing various state affairs, and therefore has the responsibility to help when it comes to protection from the city, especially because there are a huge number of processed parcels in Vojvodina and a huge number of agricultural land. In Hungary they have such a similar example, let's say the counties of Bačka Iskwan and Tsongrad, who even work with our municipalities here with AP through various IPA projects and as counties cooperate, not just through municipal authority, in establishing a system of anti-urban protection. So, I don't see anything wrong. The province is only there to help. There remains the obligation of local self-government, that is, everything that we predict to be, what we've talked about, and I think it's really and well, that every local self-government, according to its possibilities, is involved. But of course, it remains what we said, which we agreed to take over the entire system, because it is the only guarantee that we will have in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia equal anti-urban protection. Anyway, we'll, hopefully, be talking about the amendments this week, and maybe Friday and we'll accept, of course, everything we talked about yesterday. You know that everything that was good and all the amendments that improved the text of the law, so to speak, I have always been inclined to accept each of these amendments, no matter where they came from, because it contributes to having a better law and better anti-building protection in this particular case. Once again, thank you for your great help, and I hope that by Friday we will have more good suggestions, so that we can get one truly quality legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29359	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk letter from Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29360	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister with Associates, fellow Members of the People's Parliaments today propose three extremely important laws before us, and at the very beginning of my presentation, I must point out that the adoption of any law was no longer expected as the adoption of the Law on Anti-Build Protection, the Law on Defence against the City, which is understandable in the light of a number of problems in this area that have been accumulated for years. Years back, the damage to agriculture caused by the city is invaluable, not to mention indirect damage in some industries, such as food, then forestry, housing and economic facilities. For 23 years, Serbia has not had the Law of Defence against the city, so I will look back at the problems that will be eliminated by new legal solutions. As Mr. Minister also noted, since 1992, the Law on Anti-Build Protection has ceased to apply through the collapse of the former federal state. Since then, the only legal basis for anti-building protection has been the laws on ministries, under which the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute has conducted anti-building protection until 2011, and since April 2011, the Ministry of Interior, the Emergency Sector. The Emergency Sector took over equipment, facilities and employees, while the shooters and the anti-building stations were still in the jurisdiction of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, which, due to the poor material situation, failed to meet their promises, and they had no place in the new redistribution of these responsibilities. The accumulated problems in this area in the last 20 years, primarily the lack of a precise legal solution, could not be resolved closely by the division of the interior ministry and the Republic hydrometeorological institution. That's why as a state, we were unprepared for the city's defence season, which starts from April 15th and lasts until October 15th. Key problems include the involvement of shooters, the problems of the acquisition of anti-urban missiles and the maintenance of anti-building stations. So, those three key links in the anti-urban protection chain. The city's damage to agricultural crops and facilities was invaluable in terms of the consequences they left on agricultural producers, despite the fact that in the end it all comes down to the estimate of the damage in pure numbers. The first problem is the problem of anti-urban missiles. According to estimates, about 25,000 missiles are enough for the city's protection season, which would amount to about sevenm euros in monetary value, and damage and estimated damages only from the city in one municipality are worth this much. In 2013 comparisons, 3,600 missiles were purchased at the beginning of the city's defence season and 3,000 missiles were purchased in 2014. What's the reason for these misunderstandings between what's needed and what's secured? Well, the quarter of the century, which ended in 2011, anti-building protections purchased missiles from funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget at the positions of the Republic's hydrometeorological institution, and since 2009 only 100 million dinars were obtained from the Republic's hydrometeorological institution for emergency situations in 2011, was inherited from the budget. Realising this importance and the negative consequences of the lack of anti-building missiles, the Ministry of Interior and the Emergency Sector had already sent an appeal in 2011 to local self-government units to assist in the purchase of missiles on their territory, so 32 local self-government units were in place in 2014, which they acquired on their territory by July 7th, 1,404 anti-urban missiles, which is not nearly enough, as well as in this supply of missiles by local self-government. Due to the uninvited material situation, local self-government at the beginning and during the city's defence season acquired a small amount of rockets, and once again, they encountered legal obstacles, primarily the Public Procurement Act, so that they could double-procur the same supply on the same basis, and if regular legal procedures were to be met, it would take a long time. Another problem, besides rockets, stems from a lack of funds in anti-urban protection and is even more pronounced when it comes to the payment of anti-urban shooters, how to pay for anti-urban shooters because they do not fall under the jurisdiction of the Republic hydrometeorological institution, and local self-governments do not have a mechanism to plan and allocate funds to pay for their engagement. He just maintained the enthusiasm and will of these people to help in these past difficult times. The third problem is the anti-building cells that have lasted, destroyed, because they have not been invested in them for years, and in most cases their immediate reconstruction is necessary, and according to field knowledge, some work without the necessary permits. It is clear from the above that the area of anti-urban protection has been normly unregulated for years, and to warn this problem, for this season of defense from the city in 2015, there was also a joint session of the Moraviga, Raško and Zlatibor County, which I personally attended, primarily as a national MP and then because my municipality Kosjerić suffered a lot of weather disasters in the previous years and a lot of damage from them. This session unanimously adopted the conclusions of the Republic Emergency Staff, firstly, to speed up the adoption of the city's defence law, then to oblige the Ministry of Finance to provide the means to hire the archers of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, and to implement amendments to the Regulation on the procedure for obtaining consent for new employment and additional workloads for the users of public funds in a way that allows local self-governments to engage and shooters who would act against the mayoral clouds. It undertakes the Ministry of Finance to look at the possibility of providing funds for the purchase of 11,000 missiles with a value of around 350 million dinars and to commit to the Ministry of Finance to look at the possibility of the purchase of anti-building missiles being free of VAT payments, since rockets are exclusively used to prevent the consequences of elemental disasters, which is their primary purpose and they are applied once and therefore do not generate additional profits on rockets. As I said, this joint session of these three districts was held on 18 March and the conclusions of the Republic Emergency Staff were adopted that had been made before. Here we have again had one paradoxical situation, unprepared for the city's defense season, which starts with a month late, instead of April 15th - May 15th, after the attack of the city clouds that only in Aryl and Ivanjica destroyed 50% of the sown crops, especially raspberries. These were the reasons why this new legal solution was eagerly expected to be adopted, which will make the most important link in the chain legal form because the adoption of this law ensures the establishment and functioning of exactly, as the minister said, a unique and comprehensive defence system against the city in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. The proposed legal solution clearly lays down the rights and obligations and responsibilities of all bodies of the state self-government, the authorities of the Autonomous Province and the bodies of the local self-government units, as well as the way in which the city's defence operations must be financed, both stable and secure, in order to ensure its sustainability and development of the city's defence system. The funding would, unlike the current state of affairs, under which funding was reduced to the state, include a unit of local self-government, as noted, and part of a premium for crop insurance, in particular 10% of the premium. I would point out in the end that the work and functioning of the network both radar centres and launch stations will be brought closer into line with the sublegal acts that will be passed by the Government within six months of the law's entry into force. So, we can expect one full anti-urban protection regulated by law only in the following year, primarily by establishing a normative framework in the field of anti-urban protection and by adopting laws on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, which will be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Republic's hydrometeorological office, which will also take over equipment, facilities and employees. When it comes to human factor and citizens' observations, it is an opportunity to point out the professionalism and selflessness to advocate and help employees in the Emergency Sector who have visited the affected areas and helped people on the ground, it is also the gratitude of these citizens. At the end of my presentation, I must point out that we are looking forward to the adoption of this law and the MPs of the SPO and the DHSS will support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29361	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go, Mr. Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the LSV will, of course, welcome the intensities of the legislator, given that finally on the agenda in this Assembly come some topics from the field of agriculture, which we consider to be very important. Given how much agriculture contributes to the gross domestic product, I don't think we're even close to treating the same in terms of lawmaking. Also, we welcome the initiative that this area is finally being regulated and regulated in the right way, given that the Ministry of Interior has been dealing with this topic, which I think is absolutely inappropriate, that there is a Republic Hydrometeorological Institute and I think there will finally be a proper organisation in terms of the functioning of the Republic Center for the Defence of the City. What is extremely important is that we bear in mind that this topic should not be politicized. I think that we should also be deberocratised and that it is the most effective defense against the city, given that we know very well in agriculture we cannot wait, meteorological conditions are something to react to in time and I am sure that couples and farmers across Serbia and Vojvodina will not be favored if they have to wait for some official in Belgrade to carry out public procurement and strike the seal ten times, and the weather opportunities are such as to destroy their gender and to cause material damage. The bill is good according to us, we have submitted several amendments to which we will discuss when the time comes and unlike my colleague Jovanovic, who has made an assessment earlier that the AP Vojvodina should not have jurisdiction in this area, we think the opposite. Since you have to be in this area in the field with surrounding regions, or countries, because when, you know it better than I do, when you defend your space, or you sow the core to crystallize the urban clouds, you practically protect the territory that is adjacent, or your neighbors practically protect you, since the clouds, as well as the waters do not know the borders. I think we can agree that there must be co-operation with the surrounding countries and the surrounding regions. When we had the situation, last year, about the floods, and how we showed that the province's institutions could cope with natural disasters and we see no reason why they would not define the dedicated assets within and the rural budget so that they could co-finance work, equipment, network maintenance, launch stations, shooters, etc., when, for example, they collect some of the income from the agricultural land lease that goes into the province's budget, and the new land law will provide that part of these funds will be used to finance the anti-urban defence. Of course, there is also a way of funding, which in the sense of this law is the most controversial, given that the hydrometeorological institution, absolutely does not have enough resources for such a thing and mainly depends on the mercy and mercies of the current finance minister whether to define enough funds or not? We felt that the scheme relating to the premium insurance was absolutely insufficient and we proposed that 10% of the property tax, which concerns agricultural land, should be defined as financing the anti-urban defence, because that way all those with agricultural land would participate in financing the anti-urban defence. When we only limit ourselves to insurance or to income from the lease of state agricultural land, you practically add only a part of the agricultural producers, which we think is not fair, that is, they would expand the base of those who could financially contribute to this, because this really concerns all of us, or all those who deal with agriculture. I would like to appeal to the representatives of the promoters to support our amendments, especially in the work concerning the role of the AP Vojvodina, because I don't think that farmers should be the victims of any political bickering, republican and regional authorities, and this is one of the topics where we should all work together and I am absolutely sure that there are capacities within the province's government, to contribute to the future, to the modernisation of this system, which is more than obsolete and for which great financial resources are needed. We will vote for this law, of course we would be extremely pleased to take into consideration our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29363	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29364	I only want two or three sentences. So thank you for your support, so, as you said this and it's not a matter of any political controversy, this is a professional thing, and this is a thing that needs to bring us all some results. As I said, so neither I nor my colleagues will allow us to be involved in any kind of political debate, we want the province to participate in this. So, that's the government's will, that's the will of this ministry, after all, it's clearly laid out in the bill, without us it couldn't, and we want to co-operate not only with the province but with all units of local self-government, as I think it's always done when it comes to emergency situations and any other situation that requires the use of the forces of the MUP. Of course, I will consider and we will consider all amendments during the day and tomorrow before the government takes a stand, so that we can suggest to the government what to accept. I will try as I always do that everything I think is really using, and there are, I've seen a lot of quality amendments, to accept at the end, it's in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29365	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29366	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, Mr. Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to state the position of the SVM Parliamentary Group on draft laws on the agenda, primarily in the proposal for a Law on Defence against the City. In the past few years, our parliamentary group has dealt more with the topic of anti-urban protection in Serbia. As I come from the municipality of Backa Topola in which one of the centers of anti-urban protection is located in the village of Baša, I have had the opportunity to visit the facility several times and get closer to getting acquainted with its functioning and, of course, with the problems of our defense system from the city. Of course, at the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, we have dealt with this subject on several occasions. We have asked several times parliamentary questions, and we SVM MPs are involved in this topic and from the aspect of the topic of interstate, or regional co-operation. Since there is a project relating to protection from the city, the border between Serbia and Hungary, and should be realised through the IPA Fund. We can all agree that the reduction of damage from the city is of public interest, so we welcome the adoption of a special law governing this area. As stated in the Bill of Law, the city has been actively defending the city in the Republic of Serbia since 1968, as a elemental disaster each year, during the period from 15 April to 15 October. How does this system work? When the process of artificial modification in the atmosphere is carried out in a timely and efficient manner, when the ground is rained, the town's subgrades or smaller grains, which reduces the risk of a city-wide elemental accident significantly or minimises it. Due to global warming and climate change, world meteorologists are forecasting, as Mr. Minister himself said, for the next period of more frequent and devastating storm accidents followed by the city, and this includes more anti-urban defence engagement and far more anti-urban missiles. You listed Mr. Minister Stefanovic and that unfortunately in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, due to its meteorological, climate conditions, the city is often exposed to the effects of a major elemental disaster and elemental disaster and the city cloud is normally moving across many larger territories covered by local self-government units. The city clouds are affected at the stage of their development when preventive radiation is done and thus prevents the city from falling above the site of fact, possibly not the territory where the cloud is yet to come. Over the past ten years, the city's defence season over the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been between 100 and 110 days with radar monitoring of potentially dangerous clouds, and on average it is effective every other day in this period. The number of days with the fact that the city clouds were between 43 and 63 days during one of the city's defence seasons as indicated. This kind of protection is very important when it comes to agricultural production. I believe that anti-building protection is necessary to make it even more effective and that the state must find solutions to protect agricultural goods to make it even more efficient. I believe that by passing this law, we will be able to take a step towards improving the situation on the ground. It must no longer happen, for example, that the amount of rockets in the anti-urban cells is not enough, as was the case in some years. For efficient growth, it really takes 20,000 missiles to have 12 anti-urban missiles at each station. We know it can work with a smaller number of missiles, but that's what needs to be our goal. According to the bill's proposal, the damages from the city are far greater in the period from 2007 to 2013 due to lack of rockets than in earlier years when all the anti-urban stations were sufficient, rather sufficient number of rockets and when there were also in the central supplemental warehouse. The official estimate of the city's damage to agricultural cultures in recent years was 45m euros, and only about threem euros would be sufficient to obtain 10,000 anti-building missiles. Unfortunately, I had a chance to see what the city could destroy in just 20 minutes. In Pachir, in the village where I live, two years ago the city destroyed in 20 minutes all crops at as much as 2,500 thousand hectares. You can imagine what our producers have been through. However, the clouds came from Hungary. It's just that our shooters couldn't react. If agricultural production is seriously counted on in this country, so far the position of defence against the city is inadmissible. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted because there was no damage to agricultural products in the wider area of the Republic. When the city falls, it's too late for the question of who was to blame and why no one will make up for the damage to the farmers. We all know that the city's greatest direct damages are in agriculture. Of course, both in forestry and in damages occur at economic and housing facilities. The damage to agriculture caused by the city especially to the food industry's product, as stated by the colleague. For these reasons, the defense of the city must be resolved in a unique and comprehensive manner throughout the territory of the Republic, we support and, of course, it implies even distribution and a sufficient number of missiles in the defence area. Our common goal should be to resolve once and for all the anti-building defence status and financing of the system, as it sinks more and more yearly. The urgent need for the adoption of the Law on Defence of the City is also linked to the need to coordinate the city's defence system organisations with the constitutional powers of the AP Vojvodina and local self-government units. The anti-urban protection function is unimaginable without the AP Vojvodina and local self-government. However, the problem is a lack of money. We all know that local self-government is in a difficult financial situation, and yet no law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina has been passed. So the question is, how should municipalities and provinces respond to help everyone in these difficult times, and how to co-finance anti-urban protection. Of course, so far, a number of local self - administrations have helped counter-building protection in line with their capabilities. Autonomous province of Vojvodina, local self-government has income from the lease of state agricultural land, as counterpart Stojsic cited. However, there is a limit on what these funds can spend on. Every year, consent is obtained, so each municipality gets consent from the Ministry of Agriculture, or from the agricultural land administration to the agriculture programme, means the spending of these funds. What we consider important is for the Ministry of Agriculture to allow these funds to be financed and anti-building protection in the future. Local self-government from these funds should be allowed to buy and rockets and, if necessary, co-finance shooters. The issue from which funds will be allowed by local self-government and AP Vojvodina to co-finance anti-building protection. So, every local self-government has its own income from the lease of state agricultural land and the key question is whether we're going to let them finance anti-building protection from these funds. That's the key question. In addition, of course, we should work to ensure that agricultural producers in the largest number ensure agricultural land against natural disasters, and I think that it is still important to preserve the anti-building protection system, because if there is an accident, there will be no products for sale, for export, and neither will the state benefit from that production. Ensuring the risks of the city, as a passive form of protection from the city, mitigates the economic damage of insurance companies, financial compensation for loss, but does not compensate for the lost agricultural product. However, we must not allow the practice to continue and Serbia should not normally provide for crops, orchards, vineyards and gardens from the city, although there are subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture. The question is that the subsidies per hectare granted by the Ministry of Agriculture will be in future related to crop insurance and the question is whether only those producers will receive subsidies per hectare that provide these crops. It is extremely important to come to a solution on this matter, how we will encourage our farmers, or agricultural producers, to secure their crops in as large a number as possible. We also support the inclusion of insurance companies in anti-building protection, in the same way as most European countries, to subsidise the money from premiums to the purchase of anti-building missiles and to pay off shooters. However, we must not allow insurance companies to take advantage of this opportunity and increase the price of insurance per hectare. Why do I say that? Because, for example, in my municipality in Bačka Topoli, there have been such cases, besides the premiums granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and local self-government has also put funds in its programme from the total amount of insurance in return. In practice, therefore, 40% of insurance costs were subsidized by the Ministry of Agriculture, and local self-government was returning 20% of the total amount of insurance to the owners. Of course, we wanted to encourage our farmers in this way and to ensure their crops in as many ways as possible. Unfortunately, as soon as the insurance companies heard of this intention by local self-government, they increased the cost of insurance per hectare by 20% and only in our municipality. I think we can't let that happen, because we don't want to finance insurance houses, we want to fund agricultural producers. Since insurance houses will be obliged to finance anti-building protection from their premiums, the question is how it will affect the price of insurance per hectare. I wonder how the Government of the Republic of Serbia can affect the price of insurance per hectare? Why am I asking this? Because I don't think we should allow insurance prices to rise and that this is all going to the burden of agricultural producers. We should all be aware that this issue can only be resolved jointly and that we must include in this business not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, various ministries and institutions, but also the AP Vojvodina, local self-government, insurance houses, as well as agricultural producers themselves. Since the intention of the bill is exactly that, you can count on our support. Finally, I would like to reiterate once again that for all these reasons, and because we urgently need to address the problem of anti-building protection in Serbia, the SVM parliamentary group will support the draft anti-urban protection law in the voting day. Of course, you can count on our support and in the case of other acts on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29367	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29368	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, today we have three laws before us that treat two very serious substances. The third law is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. He is more specifically only engaged in more precise defining the competences of individual ministries. The draft law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases is the law that was passed in 1977. The last time we had a revision of that law in 1994 and because of the general trend in which we live, and above all the energy that is now part of all the spheres of life, it matured that this law has to be regulated. I'm no expert in this matter but as much as I've been able to inform myself, to read and compare with the previous law, you can definitely see this seriousness and alignment with European practice. What draws me the most attention today, and that's the bill of goodness from the city. And unfortunately, this law has not been treated more seriously for the past twenty years and here today, after insistence and professional people and people who have shown the needs of the field, we have the opportunity to discuss this law and by the end of the week to adopt it. And what is of course very important is that after this adoption this law will be applied by an emergency procedure in practice. What I had a chance to hear from you yesterday, from your associates who were in a meeting where you allowed us to inform ourselves once more before today's prey. Information that we have more rockets today than ever in the last 20 years which is a good thing or at least that we have a more significant amount that we don't have to worry about whether our anti-urban stations have or don't have rockets anymore. From Vranjska Banja's example, where I come from, the situation is such that at certain moments at the rocket stations, people were without a single rocket. If they happen to have four or five of those like Partisans in World War II, they divide each other by counting which place, where it will be easier to act. So, one very unserious situation that can cause great damage. We had a situation where colleagues, today we heard their discussions, that the municipalities organized themselves and managed to buy certain amounts of rockets from their resources. Turns out that wasn't enough solution at some point either, so one of the most serious things, here's what I see is that we don't have to worry about whether the rocket has or isn't there anymore. Yesterday, you said we should appeal to the citizens and make some campaigns that would motivate people to make it easier to secure their agricultural holdings. I had a chance to talk to people from the insurance houses on the ground, who went around the field and agricultural land. Their experiences are far from what you talked about yesterday. It's not about the campaign at all to motivate people to secure their own holdings, but by the words of those who visited them and offered them concrete insurance, feedback that people on the ground don't have money. It's probably one problem we're facing, but in different ways. It is not the same problem treated in Vojvodina, central Serbia or southern Serbia. We certainly heard just a moment ago from colleagues that the District Fund was also influencing, i.e. helps to finance these activities more easily, but in Vojvodina, people are defined precisely by agriculture and their landholds and the land they process and the money they use is far more serious than the areas they process in central or southern Serbia and are absolutely different and insurance methods, so from the experience that we had in 2010 in a local environment hit by a big flood, same as a natural disaster, we didn't have any secured agricultural land. That year, Vrnjaka Banja municipality made a decision that in addition to those 40% of the funds that the Republic gives me another 50, so that the insurance company remains to pay 10% of the value of the insurance. We went to a campaign literally from door to door all over the villages. The result of the campaign was only two completed insurance contracts. Unfortunately, the malt happened two years later. We had one big flood again and we went back to talking to all these people to convince them that they needed insurance. I repeat, that is definitely the biggest problem. The people don't have the money to secure the 10%. Then the only way to protect all these crops and small holdings that are not professionally involved is to literally use those surfaces for our own personal, family needs, to protect them in this way. That is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this law, of course, and all the laws that are on the agenda today. We also had a situation that because of the unresolved status of anti-urban shooters, the president of the municipality, since I was once in the executive and the locale, he had to pay the criminal penalty because, with the decision of the council, he allowed all parties of the government and the opposition to pay off certain funds. He drank that felony report and had to pay the fine. I don't think that's fair and it's not right, that we've all been together maybe we should have dealt with this before. Thank you for underlining the line now and just one of these problems and defining and making a proposal on how we can solve it in the future. The good thing is, I said, that this law defines the responsibilities of the Republic, the province, the local self-government, the way anti-urban shooters are trained, the way anti-urban shooters are chosen and co-ordinated between all of them. Shooters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have about 3,000, 3,300 each, i.e. at one missile station that has about 1,500 people working two shooters. My proposal to you yesterday was to try to get people who apply for a voluntary military service right now on this kind of thing, because the military has the ability to train these people for one of these jobs, make one classification so we don't talk about whether they're serious or unserious people there and there's a network that could cover it all. Of course, and what's very important is communication between all these radar centres with these bases is done via radio stations. You explained one thing to me yesterday and broke that idea of whether it should be done in such a way, because you said that just because we didn't have defined jurisdiction between the Ministry of the Interior, the Republic hydrometeorological institute, this time, we would have made a more crowded maybe, if we included the Ministry of Defense this time. Yesterday I accepted your explanation, and I accept that this is the law you've given on amendments, and we've heard proposals today from colleagues who have given amendments that we realized yesterday were meaningful, and if we support these amendments, we'll have one serious and good law. Once again, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote for all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29369	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29370	Thank you for a very constructive approach both yesterday and today, and your suggestions were of great quality. I also appreciate if you and I talked about why we think some of these things like this with the Department of Defense can't be implemented, but it was an extremely good way of thinking. I like it because you've been thinking about how to save in the country, how to make something more, how to make more money for anti-urban protection, and it's always the way to do it. I think even when something isn't at some point applicable that we can think about how to do these things, maybe some of these ideas will be sometimes applicable. That's why I'm grateful to you for trying to do these things that way. On the other hand, we have at this point, to be sure, that people know, about the number of missiles, at this point we've bought about six and a half thousand missiles. The finance ministry, since it was one part of the conclusion that has been discussed today and the February Emergency Staff this year, has committed to purchase another four thousand plus four thousand when those missiles are fired. So we have potential, provided funds for about 14,500 missiles. So far we've had a maximum of between 10,000 and 11,000, so in fact this year is much better secured. I hope we don't need it, all that, because that would mean we'll have a lot of cities, but we have to be ready. Of course, this law is one way to ensure that no one is moths and what you have said about local self-government, it was really scary when people who are members of local self-government get fines and in accordance with the law, because in fact it's being done to them as additional engagement and payment, non-intentional spending of budget funds, and in fact people, with the approval of larger and the assembly, even paying for additional shooters or even buying even rockets, were engaged in different ways in complementing and anti-urban protection. I think that this law too will strengthen it, give them additional opportunities to do it legally, and finally if we do it, I don't know when Parliament plans a day to vote, if it is for example Friday or next week, we are finally creating preconditions for a different start of work in the anti-urban system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29371	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29372	Dear fellow Members of the people, the presidency, respected ministers and guests, this government has indeed encountered a number of problems and inherited and found a truly derelict anti-urban protection system. Of course, great confusion and disorientation was created in 2011, when the decision of the then government relocated the anti-building defences from the Republic hydrometeorological institute to the cover of the MUP, or the Emergency Sector, and it proved to be a really big failure. This led the shooters to provide local self-government, to manage the radar systems of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, and to buy rockets for the anti-building defence of the Republic of Serbia. Today, Serbia is the country with the least efficient anti-building defence system in Europe. In Europe, anti-urban defence efficiency is about 50%, and in Serbia it is estimated to be around 20%. Experiences earlier show that the damage caused by the city can be really serious and great. A thousand euros per hectare if it hits the town of corn and up to 25,000 euros if the city hits apples or similar cultures. It is certainly inadmissible for the Republic of Serbia, which pleads that its agriculture and agricultural production be the basis for development and exports, i.e. one of the central branches for development. It is time for Serbia to receive one such law after 23 years, which is indeed one valid proposal, then a solution that fully regulates a sustainable city-to-city control system on the territory of the entire Republic is valid. Its particular quality is that it accurately distinguishes competences, as we have heard, between the Republic, the AP and between local self-government and I like your argument, which is why it is really necessary that the Republic itself, or the provinces themselves, have their responsibilities, not only that it is constitutional, but it is functional. A good colleague said that clouds, as well as water, do not have their limits, and I can say that last year thanks to good radar systems in the Republic of BiH, in Hungary and in the environment Serbia had less pressure and again in this way, for one time in international co-operation, we could improve our status, and this law gives conditions for quality and valid international co-operation in this field. By law, practically all parts of this service are now held in one hand, making the city’s defense system really effective. The Republic budget also provides stable sources for financing operational functioning and development of the anti-building defence system. I think these are the two most important things that this law provides, so co-ordination from one center and stable funding, which so far has not been the case. This bill provides an integrated approach to protection against the elemental disaster of the city, combining an active one, referring to defence, and passive, or insurance as protection. The law particularly sheds light on crop insurance, motivating agricultural producers to secure their crops. Under this law, the insurance company is required to separate 10% of the insurance premiums paid for development from the anti-building defence system. I must say, I have found that in Europe there is a really high percentage of the security of the harvest. I found, for example, that over 92% of all crops are secured in Austria, and about 80% in around Europe. If we cross-reference, where's the security around 10%, we'll see what kind of break it is. We know that the insurance of these damages reduces the economic loss of the producers themselves and that it is indeed one way to reduce their damage and relieve the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What is very important is that this law gives one balanced approach and that, although it interferes with a particular group, it primarily motivates those large agricultural insurance producers, does not leave less and poorer agricultural producers at risk, since it generally strengthens the defence system and thus reduces one risk of harm to them, which is very good. My colleague, Arpad, stressed here that there was indeed an abuse by the insurance companies, and I must ask the government's representatives to take care of the abuses that are possible by insurance companies, as well as the importer of the anti-urban networks. Such matters should be recognized, suggested by the insurance company and severely sanctioned. This law creates all conditions for modernising the anti-urban system. The anti-grading networks are widely used in the world today, and in Serbia only about a thousand hectares of orchards are covered with this anti-urban network. It should be recalled that the state subsidizes the deployment of these networks, as well as the provision of the flight with about 40% of the participation, a few years back. Also, the law gives some more opportunities to operate on the city clouds. Besides others, by plane, which is really practice in the developed world and in Europe. I come from Novi Pazar, and although we are counting and we really are an agricultural area, where agriculture is a possible branch for serious development, especially here I think of Peshter, for us, since we have no procedural reasons for this type of anti-urban defence, since we are close to the administrative border and that is a restriction for us, this vision would really be useful for us and would allow us to prevent damage, because cities are large and frequent for us. We have in the region of Sjenica, which is a cattle and agricultural field, one base that protects that part. The second thing, this technology is very interesting and practically against the city was used by air within the cloud itself, thus reducing the risk of pilots and crews to a minimum, while air currents, the direction of which experts know well, bring chemicals that carry the plane into the center of the cloud and thus translate as an ice globe generator into water and reduce damage. This law adopts a new criminal policy, and serious penalties are prescribed for all those who want and who try to prevent the implementation of the anti-building defence. A special place in the system belongs especially to shooters, who, according to the new proposal, will be paid something better, but certainly more regularly and they, we said, will get about 20% of the average profit. I would take the opportunity to thank the minister for a constructive conversation and for respecting the amendments. I will confirm his truly sincere desire to absolutely reduce the impact of politics and that this country, which pleads to be a agricultural exporter, really gets one quality law. I'm a witness to a quality conversation, especially the one we had yesterday. I want to end by saying that this law creates all the conditions for our abandoned system, which we have found, to provide, as soon as possible, modern scientific knowledge in the area of time modification and unbiased verification of the operational efficiency of the system. Since this law takes special care of the agricultural product and of the agricultural producer and puts producers and peasants in the centre, it is clear that we from SDPS will support this law in the voting day. I'm also going to say a few words about this second draft law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases. This area has so far been governed by the Law on Explosive Matters and Incendiary Liquids and Gases since 1977. Clearly, this is a major shift in security and security in this field. I think the special quality of this law is a serious, public debate, which began in the ninth month of last year, in which a really large number of entities, manufacturers, businessmen and professionals participated. There have been numerous suggestions that, as I have seen, almost most of them have been adopted, from introducing the importance of a new concept of fuel liquid, but the revised deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts has been reduced from four to two years. The main objective of this law is to establish a system of complete security of the person and property when handling flammable fluids and gases, with respect to developed international practice with the National Programme of Serbia for the adoption of EU legal flows. The adoption of this law under Chapter – The ability to assume obligations from EU membership is foreseen. However, EU law does not particularly regulate this area, as it is absolutely regulated in Member States and other developed countries. I think both laws and changes in the ministries that follow these are extremely affirmative things, extremely well done, and with, we will see, the acceptance of quality amendments, are making a shift in this area. So, once again, I confirm that we in the voting day will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29373	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister and Associates, it is obvious that the topic of protection against the city is unfavorable, both in the government and among ministers. It thus, from time to time, is transferred as hot potatoes from state authorities to the ministry and again from the ministry to the state body, in this case to the Republic hydrometeorological institute. That nothing will change in the future tells us that the bill does not appoint a competent authority, but through this whole bill it is going through as such, or unnamed. If the government had firmly decided that the competent authority for the implementation of the Law on Protection against the City would be the Republic hydrometeorological institution, then it should have clearly been in the law. In the light of the law, it is argued that the competent authority should not be appointed in law, since there is a possibility that, at some point in time, protection from the city should be re-trusted with any other ministry or body. It is obvious that the problems that follow protection from the city are numerous, from insufficient number of missiles, to shooters who are not adequately paid for their work, through outdated equipment in radar centres, poor coordination, etc. The recent unfortunate events in the municipality of Arilla and Ivanica and the enormous material damage done in raspberries, the despair of people who seem to me to have been left without their crops, I will only remind you of some articles from the newspaper from that period: “The weather has run out of fruit trees”, 21 May; “The city has destroyed the plantations of raspberries, the damage of millions”; “Million damage in the city of Ariel”; “They will not throw down clouds for 80 dinars a day”, 18 May; “The destroyed raspberries in Ivanjica”; “The damage from the city reported 1,150 farmers.” They've been all over the newspaper since May 29th. Everything was moving in a vicious circle. If the municipalities provided an anti-building missile from their resources, there were no shooters to fire them, because no timely contracts were concluded with them, and I will remind you that by April 15th, contracts were to be signed with them. The contracts were not signed because the RHMZ in its budget did not provide funds for the shooters' fees. With its decision from the budget reserve, the government approved a sum of 80m dinars to hire shooters, but they refuse to sign the contract because of what they say is a humiliating small sum of 2,400 dinars, offered to them. And all such a sudden thing – if there are rockets, there are no shooters, if the shooters are hired, there is not enough number of missiles, and there is no responsible man anywhere. You say there is no law that will comprehensively cover a sustainable city-restraint system, which at the same time represents an integral part of the Republic of Serbia's system to protect and rescue natural disasters. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I don't think this bill will go far either in a system-based solution to the city's protection. Despite public debates involving interested parties and giving their suggestions, I think this second version of the law was made in extortion and under pressure, with a series of unfortunate circumstances from May. In addition to the remarks I have already made, which refers to the fact that the law did not specifically state that the competent authority is the Republic hydrometeorological institution, my observations refer to the article as well. 8 and 9, and it concerns the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and the unit of local self-government. For example, Article 8 paragraph 1 of point 2) gives a formulation that the AP, under its responsibilities, "provides support for the functioning of the city's defence system". The same formulation is also given when it comes to the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit. These formulations are inconclusive and vague. What is expected of the AP Vojvodina and local self-government units through this formulation? What do you mean by "support"? Is that material support in terms of getting a rocket or maybe it's just logistical support, say, in the training of shooters? If Article 16 makes it clear that the Republic of Serbia is funding the procurement of funds for the sowing of urban clouds, are local administrations themselves expected to, for their own purposes, obtain rockets? If that kind of support is thought of, it was also necessary to state in the law itself. Article 16, also states that the Republic of Serbia is funding work, equipment and maintenance, among other things, and a network of launch stations. Was it not logical that the financing and maintenance of the launch stations were conducted by local self-government units? This doesn't mean maintenance of missile launch equipment. Each unit of local self-government on its territory has a public utility that could be engaged in the maintenance of parcels and facilities located in a launch station complex. So the state budget wouldn't have this expenditure for about 1,600 stations, and this kind of work wouldn't be too much of a financial burden for local self-government units. I ask you -- what is the right measure in relation to providing support to the AP and units of local self-government? Also, Article 9(1) of point 5 provides for the possibility for units of local self-government to consider and adopt, note - adopt, reports on the preparation and functioning of the city's defence system for their territory, prepared by the competent authority. What happens if local self-government units don't adopt reports? It is unacceptable for a lower body to adopt or reject reports prepared for it by a senior body. Nowhere in the law mentions a mandatory medical examination of the shooters and who funds it. In the part relating to the functional structure of the city's defence, the Republic's city's defence centre is defined as an operational methodological centre that coordinates, manages and provides conditions for the operation of other parts of the city's defence system, where point 6 says it "provides uniform technical maintenance of the radar network". I ask you – who provides a unique technical maintenance of anti-building missile fire equipment? Or do we leave the technical maintenance equipment to the shooters? The financing of all these activities is most likely the most painful point we'll all agree on. You say -- you found a solution that would disburse the budget with 100 million dinars. It was given in Article 15. We were at a meeting yesterday that was held with your associates and discussed it. Is it a condition for the application of Article 15 of the Insurance Act, or does it make it possible to apply it as such? So we should consult the experts. In this article, however, it is illogical for the 10% of the insurance premiums paid by insurance companies to invest in the budget of the Republic of Serbia to fund the city's defence system to cover only the payments of registered agricultural holdings. Why are only registered holdings and not other crops and fruits not included in this category of insurance? In article 16, which relates partly to the amount of the monthly fee to the shooters, I don't think that the formulation, the amount of the monthly fee, can be higher than 20% of the average net earnings, is valid. Why was the upper limit given? That percentage can be far lower, which further creates dissatisfaction with the shooters. I think we should set the upper, lower limit, and it should be 20%. That's how you'd stimulate the shooter's work. By reading carefully the law, I noticed a technical slip in Article 20. Point 2 of point 3, namely, in the part relating to the rules adopted by the body manager, and in point 2, they relate to the implementation of training and the improvement of the appearance of the certificate referred to in Article 11(4), as set out in the proposal for a law. Otherwise, point 4. refers to construction plans and modernisation of facilities and equipment. Point 3 of which is to be held refers to training and the perfecting of staff and the issuing of a certificate of completed training. I believe that at least we can agree on this amendment in the day of discussion in particular. In the end, Mr. Minister, why was the previous version of the law withdrawn which, in my opinion, was better, more precise, no doubt, especially regarding the obligation of local self-government units? Have you given up this version under pressure from local self-government units who were not ready to take over the financing of some of the activities in terms of protection from the city? Our parliamentary group has submitted 11 amendments to this law, and I hope that you will carefully consider and possibly accept some of them, all in order to improve the quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29375	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29376	Of course we'll consider all the amendments very carefully. What I'd like to start with is this previous version of the law. It's easy to write, the parliamentary majority exists. The party I belong to has an absolute majority in this National Assembly and any legal proposal supported by the SNS can go as far as the number of votes it is due in parliament. That doesn't even require the support of anyone else. But if we thought of it that way, we wouldn't be making good legal decisions. As you can see, we have made a huge effort not only to consult with professional associations, but also to consult with all MPs once more in front of the session and before the committees themselves. What's the problem? The problem is that a law that would not be able to implement a part of local self-government that is neither capable, organisational or financial or not ready, simply experience a fiasco and you can prescribe a law to give them any authority to do anything in their territory. If they don't have the capacity to do that, it will result in a catastrophic situation. Secondly, if you don't have a unique system, some local self-government can decide to, for example. introduce temporary measures, don't work this, there isn't this, there's not enough political will, there's been a crisis in work, the Assembly can't decide anything, etc., it's already been political. If this were left with their arrangement, to expand the spectrum of work related to the defence of the city to run local self-government, there could be a threat to anti-building protection. And also financial aspects, because not all local self-governments are the same. Some local self-governments have more significant resources and can easily provide a lot, and some local self-government barely pay salaries. Some like Koserić Municipality are so in charge that they can't. In a previous period, some geniuses took on such loans economically that the next five municipal authorities would not be able to repay it. Fantastic geniuses of economic profession, perfect, absolutely brilliant. Such municipalities, when given anti-building protection, cannot pay for street lighting, not to organize anti-building protection. When we consider all this, the point is to find a way to make it unique in the territory of the entire Republic. The existing laws define the powers of local self-government and their possibility in the Law on Local Self-Government, Belgrade, the Law on the Capital, other legal solutions concerning city and municipality regulation, so that they can work on building local roads, can regulate areas. So that's all they have options under those laws. We didn't want them to build launch stations, to do capital maintenance, to build radar systems, the simple question is, what would be if every community had a tender for themselves and if they had 180 different launch lamps manufacturers and 180 different radar systems and who knows what. The question is, how much would that maintenance cost, and what would that be? The second question, when the organ was defined, so we had one of the components of today's debate and amendments to the Ministry Act. The law accurately defines that RHMZ is a state institution that will deal with anti-building protection. Right, otherwise, in the methodology of making legal acts, there is a rule that when this solution is envisaged and defined in one legal solution, it is seen that because of the legal-technical, better-designed material is not repeated in each of the next legal acts a solution that already exists, because then we would have to prescribe in each member all the members of the Constitution and beyond where it is mentioned. We always see it done that way. So RHMZ is a state institution that will deal with anti-urban protection. It's perfectly logical because they predict the movement of urban and urban clouds anyway, they have the capacity to do the job. Radar systems are in their hands and it is perfectly natural for the prevention and prevention measures to be in this state body. As for your specific objections, I am fully prepared to accept that. You're right, except in Article 20 where a technical error was made, and of course we'll accept it. I'm prepared to accept your objection, and I'm going to suggest that the committee do so on the provisions regarding the adoption of a report by local self-government. You are absolutely right, pointlessly, to prevent the lower body from adopting this report or that there is no legal consequence, what if it does not adopt it. Then it becomes completely groundless, so I would suggest that the committee write a decision that would literally say that local self-government, i.e. the local self-government authority is considering and not adopting. So, he's just reviewing the state reports, and that's where we totally agree. It's not legally possible for you to submit an amendment, but the board can. I certainly admit that you're someone who noticed it and that it corrects the text of the law. Thank you for being so helpful yesterday. Is all of this going to be ideal and about the funding problem, of course not, but this is really a significant step forward. We need stronger participation and agricultural producers in terms of insurance, we need more important participation of insurance companies, because they will see in time that they are paid much more to invest anti-urban protection than to pay insurance premiums. When we do it even better and even better after this first step, because we need this step to live, so far we have a split system and at this point we don't have a single organ that controls this system. Do you always have what is wrong? As far as the MUP is concerned, our position is easy, we buy missiles and deploy them to launch stations, and that's how we do our part. I can always tell what the M.O.P. has to do with it, whether we gave the missiles -- yes, we did, you have enough missiles, go ahead and shoot. We can't just switch from one to the next, I've always been in favor of being a state authority and we all have an obligation to make sure that the system works no matter who is nominally guilty or based on the responsibility of some particular business that it does. So I expect that this law will give a fundamental improvement and that it will be much better than it is now, if nothing, we have no law. It was put out of force in 1992, and we simply don't have a law on anti-urban protection. They had the opportunity to pass the law, to stimulate the shooters, and to get them equipment and to increase their receipts and buy them vehicles, all had the opportunity, but when they could do so, they could neither adopt the law nor increase their receipts, nor give them anything. Then when someone else comes, it's easy to say what they're not given. We give what the state can at this point, fix status, I hope that in the coming years, we will have more opportunities and more opportunities for the country to make economic progress to solve this issue better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29377	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Word by Master Jovan Marković Do you think you have the right to a replica? [[Branka Karavidić, from the place: I wanted a replica.]] Branka Karavidić, from the scene: Two minutes is enough for me. Well, you know by the Rules of Procedure how you get a replica. At this point... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29378	Thank you. I thank the minister for suggesting he would give me a word. We have made the amendments and I hope you will adopt them. However, you have not answered a key question that many of my predecessors have tried to answer. I am particularly interested - what does the formulation provide for support for the functioning of the city's defence system, including AP Vojvodina and local self-government units? Does that require material giving? Does that require logistical support? Can we find out more precisely from you what this formulation means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29379	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29380	I said it in a few sentences and in the opening statement, but here's the point. The point is, firstly, that they can without fear of legal sanctions that, as Mr Vujic said, there were local self-governments who were punished for paying for shooters or getting a rocket, now it will be legally secured. You have local self-governments that work well, that make significant revenues and they want more important protection of their territory. They can invest extra funds in anti-urban protection. Now by law, they can do it completely normal. But under the law, local self-government is required to maintain roads. That's what this law gives them as jurisdiction. They have to arrange a network of roads to the launch stations. They have to edit the surface communal around the launch stations, channels, flood defenses, embankments and everything. That's what it It's their jurisdiction. We're left with laser ramps that the Republic gets and maintains, missiles that are supplied by the Republic and shooters that are provided, meaning whose money is paid by the Republic's funds. They don't have any fourth final jurisdiction. We didn't want to give it to them, because when we gave the first version more jurisdiction to local self-government, it turned out they couldn't do it. And then we didn't want to experiment. All those local self-governments who want to help, who want to engage actively, in the end, is something that shows citizens in the territory where they exercise their power, tell citizens if these local self-governments are capable. We're able to buy so many more missiles, pay the shooters extra, stimulate them to work, pay more people. So these are things that local self-government can do. Those local self-governments that don't have money, and they don't have it, they can't, and they certainly couldn't. So they will have, relying on the number of people, relying on what the Republic will provide. We will try to make it covered, or the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, and this way, I believe, that we will improve the situation and give legal basis to local self-governments to engage more actively in the anti-building protection system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29381	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm telling them Mr. Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29382	Honorable ministers, respected government representatives, respected MPs, ladies and gentlemen, after the very good comments we've heard from the representatives of the ruling coalition, the impression is that this bill is really good, that salvation for Serbia, that salvation for agricultural producers, that nothing should be changed there, and that the situation will be ideal, that honey and milk and people will no longer have reason to worry, have no reason to look at the sky, have no reason to pray to God. It's all arranged. I want to ask a lot of questions and the minister and his associates. We have set up a lot of amendments from the DS parliamentary group, which is a lot of amendments concerning the corrections of this law, and we have tried to improve this law, without any political connotation, through these amendments, which I do not think is good, and we think it was wise to postpone the adoption of this law for a number of reasons. First, we ask an open question – why, Minister, today, on 16 June 2015, are we adopting this law by emergency procedure? The question is, if you had a bill a month ago that had a whole other concept, if that law went public, what happened now after a month of adopting this law? Did he go through any kind of procedure? Are at least the people at the Hydrometeorological Institute informed of their duties, responsibilities? Has the public given its judgment to this law? I have significant and serious objections to this concept, and I would like you to have your discussion, but also to these amendments that we have proposed to contribute to improving the law, and in that sense I want you to understand my discussion as well. If the situation has been such that since 14 May, we have suffered disasters in Aryl, Ivanjica, Kragujevac, Kraljena, Užica, Čačka, if the damage is already around 50m euros and more, the question arises – why have you not passed the law before? If today's adoption of the law from 23 points of order, the question arises – why does it take six months to adopt a sublegal act? In our amendments, we have proposed that a sublegal act be adopted as an emergency procedure within a month. The second question I think is very important – why do you, as the minister responsible for this area today, defend and represent this law in the Assembly? Why isn't there a Minister of Agriculture who's in charge, who's interested in the name of the people most in this law? Why isn't she here? I must commend, unlike the Minister of Agriculture, who, in the past few months, has been exclusively for nelados, publicity and failures of the ministry, blamed the previous authorities, unaware that the Minister of the Interior before you was Ivica Dacic, the president of her party, you had a different approach to the discussion today from a few minutes ago. You tried to separate politics from this topic and it was commendable, but then you said something that was unacceptable to me. You mentioned Koseric's example and mentioned an example of a man who was the president of the municipality from 2008 to 2012. You also mentioned his qualification as a top economist, an expert who owed the place for not knowing how many millions, etc., and I want to tell you that Dragan Vujadinovic is one of the best presidents of the municipality not only Koseric but also the whole of Serbia, not only in that period but also dozens of years ago. If you took to analyze his results and what he did in the municipality of Kosjerić then you would say – all the honour for effort, energy and what he did. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Why didn't the citizens say so? The citizens said their own and the citizens voted for this man, but then the campaign followed. It's a very important topic and I don't think it should be thrown away, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29383	Go on, Mr. Markovic. I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29384	Then that man lost his health. He's put a lot of effort into it. He did great things for that town. In four years, Dragan Vujadinovic has singled out four thousand dinars in the cafes for the team, and your president of the municipality...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29385	Mr. Markovic, I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29386	Isn't that what the minister was saying? The president of the municipality is current...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29387	Mr. Markovic, at this point, we are not discussing the character and work of the mentioned president of the municipality, but we are talking about the subject and the law on the agenda. I beg you, if you want to continue, go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29388	The context of what I'm saying is about trying to analyze the bill's proposal in fact to remove the subject of responsibility, that's the key question. Both yesterday on the Committee and all these days, the question and responsibilities are avoided. It's not true they weren't defined by jurisdiction. It's not true there was no system. It is true that there has been no work, that there have been reports, that today we do not have answers to questions about who is responsible for Arile and Ivanjic, who is responsible for the Kragujevac, who is responsible for all the disasters that occurred in the past few weeks and months because there has been no reaction from the state authorities? This is where the question arises – do you think that by voting another law, which you are not sure is good, you will solve problems and thus say - no one is responsible for the damage that occurred in the previous few months. Who's to blame and responsible for this year's lack of position in the budget of the state authorities, the MUP, or the Institute, for paying for shooters' logs and anti-urban protection? Who is to blame that on May 14th, the day that Ariel and Ivanjic were hit by a major disaster, the government only then reacted and allocated 80 million dinars to pay commitments to people who did these jobs as shooters? Does the question arise that precisely because there was no money, which was no contract, which someone did not predict that position for the budget this year, that people said – so we won't work? Is there a question that precisely because people were not paid there was no such reaction and you have damage, that is, we have damage as a country in the area of more than 15m euros in just 20 minutes? Now you're proposing other solutions. You suggest that you no longer be responsible, but someone else, and it remains an undefined question of money again. Mr. Minister, an estimated 8m euros, or 940m dinars, would require the system to function. I expected, indeed, to be honest, that in the bill of this law you would have solutions as to how the Institute and other institutions could function normally. If you analyze your positions well, the government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated 287 million dinars this year for the purchase of missiles. Another 80 million dinars were allocated through an additional decision on May 14th. I'm telling you that it's a big mistake for you to exempt local administrations, first of all, from this law. I think it was important to define in Article 9 the position where local administrations would be able to separate funds for this purpose. In the amendment, we suggested that it be said in detail – that local administrations have an obligation to pay the money to the Institute. We believe that according to this basis, the Institute should make deals with the shooters and it should be a defined obligation, and not that after the president of the municipalities, they have a problem that in their financial plans they have separated that money, they want to help people, and then they have criminal charges. We also suggested, in Article 14, that, as a supplement, points 4 and 5 be left to be possible, that money should be directed towards this fund, i.e. according to these transactions. As the fifth point in this proposal, Article 14. We propose to leave the possibility that both natural and legal persons and associations of citizens and all those interested in helping through their funding and paying that this job, i.e. this fund, has as secure and more certain work as possible, i.e. to have incomes that are secure. We come to the point that people in Aryl, Požega, Ivanjica, Luciani and Gucci, who felt all the trouble of the state now through their associations can say – it's okay, we'll give a certain part of the money, but don't let the excuse be that we're not protected because that day the shooter was not at work or in Kragujevac because there was no possibility that the missiles stored in Užica would be transported to Kragujevac. Here is the question, Minister, and pay attention to these amendments that I have talked about, not a single word in this law has been treated the responsibility of employees, or persons in the management system. In Article 21, you have defined the responsibility and criminal policy towards those persons who prevent access to buildings or stations, which have built facilities in the protection zone and so on. One word does not speak of the responsibility of those persons who fail in the management system. If you did, then the example of the Bukulj that we talked about here and many other examples would be recorded and people would know when they're asking for their damages and claims about who's responsible for what's happening to them. In this case, you've missed that opportunity, and we're going to have a situation where people keep knocking on the door of the local administration that needs to be done in seven days, and that's impossible, and that's where we've given the amendment to fix it, determine the actual state. We believe that it was essential today that, instead of you, the Law defends, possibly, the Minister of Agriculture, because it is not natural and it is not normal for you, who are practically completing one job and jurisdiction to transfer to another ministry, to talk to us about amendments, about how to fix the Law, to accept some solutions and to come into a situation where after that someone else accepts what you actually accept. The question is whether the Minister or Director of the Institute, in this case, would accept this concept where there is no determination of responsibility for inaction. The law doesn't say anything about that. The second thing that is very important, amendments, Mr Minister, which concerns Article 6, Article 7, which talks about deadlines, if you carefully read these amendments, you will see that the proposal was in this sense to determine the deadlines. The first deadline, the starting date to exist, is November 1st, where both the republican authorities and local authorities and the province authorities will include their commitments in next year's budget proposals. The next deadline, we think it is late on April 15th, and we ask for the first report on the operations in front of the institutions and which are due to be completed in that year, to separate the regular reports that are due on May 1st, according to our assessment and September 1st, where exactly in the season when the elementary disasters can be solved, to separate the extraordinary reports that should be called upon by the government and to make the system effective in that sense. As far as surveillance is concerned, we also feel it is not right for surveillance to be carried out by the organs that work and do work. In this case, we went on a proposal to have the Ministry of Agriculture supervise. These are some details that are related to the application of this law, but what is the essence of our objections, you have ignored the fact that the biggest problem in functioning and now the system has been funded and that you have now deepened this problem by taking away the rights of local administrations, i.e. the possibility, and thus the republican budget, that about 160 million dinars are directed into the Republic budget. Under this proposal, the law of the local administration will have no obligation to allocate funds. Under this law, even the province will have no obligation to allocate funds. It is good that the Republic budget has accepted all obligations, responsibilities and responsibilities, but the people on the ground have seen from experience over the past year and a half to two days that they have no way of doing so. They've seen that you're always calling for no right, no means, never to point out who's responsible for what's on the ground unsettled, so to speak, and then we get into trouble. People would like to get organized, but they don't know how. With this proposal, you have also proposed these 100 million fictitious from insurance houses, etc., but you will see that in practice it is inconclusive and that it is an anti-constitutional decision. So if you cut 160 million dinars of income that existed from local administrations, if you add that the amount previously paid by the Institute of 135 million to the current 80 million, if you add that there is no part of 100 million, which is as envisaged by insurance companies, you get a problem and a hole in the budget of this law that is larger than 500 million dinars. You will continue to talk about some responsibilities, big troubles, big accidents, all others before you, and in fact, you are systematically setting things bad today. People who have worked at the Bureau for years know this concept won't work. If you as a minister and you as a ministry have not had the authority and have not had the opportunity to set this system right, then we rightly express our suspicion that this concept, or the Institute, will be able to handle these matters. Yesterday I asked the Committee on Agriculture a question - is it possible that only the theme of ministries, governments and institutions is a topic that appears in the media? Do you have to react only when there's an accident, so you're going to stick things under the carpet with your conclusions and decisions? Well, it's not the solution that on May 14th, when there's a big accident and when people lose everything they've done, not just that year, but years ago, that you make a decision about the 80 million you're spending on shooters? Well, you were supposed to say that day who was responsible for the fact that the money wasn't in the budget for that purpose and what caused the losses. In order to avoid this, we have proposed that, in fact, an integral part of all reports and programmes be the adoption of the budget at the local level and the republican level, to give opportunities to local administrations and associations of citizens to be in this process, because they are most interested in doing this job properly. Through proposals, i.e. through amendments concerning both criminal policies and opportunities to remove certain objects, we have contributed to this law and to members of this law, no matter how bad they are, being a priority in the conduct of institutions. If you set things up like that, then things will work out. People expect serious suggestions. I think today this law is actually an excuse for committing in the previous period and bringing blame and responsibility to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29389	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29390	If I hadn't seen you in the O.R. during the day, I'd have thought you weren't here since this morning. But, I understand, I guess this was for a media show, there's got to be something to say, and you heard that most of these solutions were predicted. I just can't believe what you're saying. I am fascinated by some of your sentences, since until today, only God has been able to help the peasants since 1992, since you neither wanted to pass the law nor were you particularly interested in it. You know, you were the government. I don't know if you remember, you had a prime minister, you had a minister of agriculture. Guys, that was in the jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture. Who defended you in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, only then came the MUP, who, people, forbade you to pass the Anti-Bulgrade Protection Act? Who was defending you? Why didn't you pass the law? Why didn't you pay these people? Why didn't you bring them some way to be permanently resolved? Why didn't you buy the rockets? What has the city been beaten by both Zrenjanin and Banat regularly every year? When people had nothing to do, not just what they were doing, but years ago, why didn't you solve it? Then who did it to you? Any priors or was it your fault? We here make it very clear that this anti-urban protection of the wishes of the then directors of the Hydrometeorological Institute, because they didn't want responsibility, washed their hands, ran away from responsibility like the devil from the cross, pushed into the MUP, and in the MUP only to buy rockets. Well, what's the responsibility when you don't do anything? What is the responsibility when you neither have radar systems to monitor cloud movements, nor do we know where those clouds will come from, nor were the people in the MUP dressed for it then? Secondly, you say – are the people from the Hydrometeorological Institute consulted? Well, they haven't dealt with it since 2011. All those people went to the MUP. These people who are the only experts in this country are in the MUP today. And those 210 people who work in the MUP today on these jobs and who are most professional say this is a good solution. The fact that it does not like the individuals of the Hydrometeorological Institute, Mr Stefanovic, the MP, the head of your parliamentary group, told me that they were, to complain, to whine, etc., is because they are now trying to escape from their responsibilities. They expect it to be a lot of work. You know, somebody's got to work. Second, you say, "Did anyone ask them?" Well, imagine if the National Assembly were to ask if a minister agrees with the decision made by the National Assembly and I say, "I don't agree, I'm sorry, you can't pass that law, I don't agree with that, and the National Assembly can't make it." It's the same way. To tell you the truth, the Director of the Hydrometeorological Institute can't say if he agrees with the government's decisions. Well, he's not a God, he's a civil servant, he's a director of a public firm, he's a director of an office that deals with a certain part of the work that the government has entrusted him with. After all, every civil servant who thinks he can't meet the expectation that he can't do the job he's been entrusted with doesn't have to be in that place. You don't have to be the director of this country at all costs. If you can't, resign, let someone else do it. Will the Director of the Hydrometeorological Institute complain here or there, will he whine? He was in a meeting with the Minister of Agriculture. That's what they probably wouldn't tell you. They were with us, there was Mr. Maric, there was an entire crew. We had some serious meetings where we talked about all the issues. We have reached a conclusion in February of the month, in which we have predicted and we are now providing the largest number of missiles in the last ten years. He can talk to whoever he wants, but it's easy to count. It's not virtual, you can see the rocket, you can see the money. These are the commitments made by the Ministry of Finance, those are the commitments that we've all made. Why am I here? I'm here because it's still my jurisdiction until the National Assembly decides otherwise. So I can't say the Minister of Agriculture comes, because so could the Minister of Culture. It's simply not in their jurisdiction. Is the Ministry of Agriculture more interested? It certainly is, but the government of the Republic of Serbia decides which member of it comes before the National Assembly and defends. It is a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its sovereign right, and the National Assembly must accept it. So we're talking about an issue that absolutely no purpose has been to solve since 1992, and I don't know why. I'm not the minister who didn't want to do it. Well, when I became a minister, I dealt with it in my term. There could have been others. Why not, ask the various agriculture ministers who had 10 years to solve it. As for the authority of local self-government, they still have all the powers they have under the laws that apply to them. They have all the powers and the AP and local self-government, they have the possibility. Whether or not we make a commitment, I don't feel like you do that we should give them the obligation to give mandatory money and to pay the hydrometeorological services. This is the first legal impossible because RHMZ is a beneficiary of the budget like everyone else and this would be our own income that we abolished in 2012. On the other hand, local self-government now has the option, and I think, perhaps you don't think that, in local self-governments, there are people who are responsible for the public in the municipalities they are dealing with and that they will certainly look to separate funds because they don't want the citizens of their municipalities to be dissatisfied. I can't imagine there's some monster in some community who knows he's got money, and he's not going to give it up for anti-building protection because he's hoping it'll beat the crops to the people who produce it. I'm absolutely sure those people will do that. They have an obligation, by law, to maintain roads, embankments, to arrange space, to prevent the construction of illegal objects, all of them, by law, by now giving them the right to pay for shooters. So the municipalities, the successful municipalities, let them single out, let them pay the shooters another 20,000 dinars, let them give them as much as they want, they'll make your people more satisfied, just to see which municipalities they will be. I'm very interested in the adoption of this law to see who these experts are, who are these very capable personnel who will be able to do it all out of the budget they have. We'll follow that together. As for this from Koseric, I must tell you, such an expert was in debt for five million euros, in the small municipality of Koseric, five million euros and the municipality today barely survives, it barely works. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: That is not true. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29391	Mr. Markovic, please don't throw it away. Mr. Markovic, you're in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29392	Of course it's true. Of course it's true. You'll get a chance, you know, in the National Assembly you answer for a word. So, five million euros in debt, we have the MPs from Koseric, here, we have the people who were here. And where are you from? Are you from Koseric? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes, from Koserić. Well, do you know how Koserić lives today? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I know. Do you know they couldn't pay for electricity? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I know. Well, I guess when a community is successful, it can pay for electricity. When she's successful... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: How can they pay 700,000? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29393	Mr. Markovic, you're in the National Assembly, wait, you'll get a line. Do I have to warn you to understand that you are in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29394	When a local self-government is successful, it works perfectly, it doesn't have to take credit at all, but when it's not successful, it gets into such debt that it can't even pay for the electricity anymore. He can't even pay the employees in the community building, but it's a disaster. You can't pay employees in the municipality to pay, it's such an economic performance that it's perfect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29395	Mr. Markovic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29396	These were perfect frames, it's an economic genius. These are the wonders of the economics that were.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29397	Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29398	So the National Assembly needs to know, they need to know Serbia's citizens. As far as the election results are concerned, these results show what the citizens of Koseric think about it and that was and we will see in the next local elections what citizens think about all the political options, not only in Koseric, I guess one day in the AP Vojvodina, we hope to continue. We're sure that these choices will eventually be, but we still hope that they will come sometime. As for everything that's been going on, I don't want to get into it at all, we want to solve it one right, good way. This is one step, a significant step forward, in resolving the issue of protection from the city. A lot of professional people have worked on this, associations of manufacturers, associations of insurance companies, and everyone agrees that these are solutions that are a significant step forward that can contribute to protecting the city to be incomparably better than it has ever been. We'll try to track the situation, fix it. I didn't understand why it's an emergency procedure now, and then you say - we suggest that underlaws be adopted by an emergency procedure. Well, I guess if something is brought in by emergency procedure, then everything is done by emergency procedure. If there's a dispute, then what do you suggest these sublegal acts are brought in by an emergency procedure? But you have to understand, when it comes to protecting from the city, that it's an elemental disaster that doesn't suffer a delay. Since the public debate lasted so long, they had the opportunity to say, these changes that were made concern only the competences of local self-government and local self-government, to say, in this sense only abolishing their funding obligation and that is the difference fundamental to the previous text of the bill. In any case, I believe that local self-government people will use their legal right now to fix, as many have, and I thank them for that, and so far they've bought missiles and worked on anti-urban protection. I hope that together, working in all municipalities and at the level of the Republic, we will have good reports, and the people of the Hydrometeorological Institute will have to roll their sleeves well, seriously work from morning to night, to try, to fight, to try, as people at the Ministry of the Interior do in every place. We will now, of course, step back, because they will do this job and these people will now successfully deal with it at the Hydrometeorological Institute. All those who can follow it are welcome, and those who cannot follow should not be led by such institutions, they simply must accept the responsibility that they may not be enough personnel to do so. If they had a better situation than they, you know, in 2011, they just called in one day for the MUP and said, "I'm sorry, this is yours. Based on what, no one knows. Why was the MUP chosen to deal with protection against the city? Based on what? If that's based on the Emergency Sector, then why didn't they let us build the waterfalls on the rivers? That makes sense. It's better if the M.O.P.'s building a dikes when we're in charge of the floods. That's the same logic. It's absolutely the same logic. We're building roads because there are slides. Because this is shooting in the clouds so that the city doesn't fall. But since it doesn't make sense, of course, because the MUP doesn't follow the creation of city clouds, someone calls us and tells us – the city clouds are there, and if he's wrong, the shooters we don't pay and we don't hire the same mistakes, and we're just buying rockets, the MUP should be responsible? The M.O.P. needs to be responsible for some state body not predicting the payment of shooters? Is the M.O.P. supposed to be responsible? Excuse me, who's responsible for not being scheduled to pay the shooters? Did you find out who was paying so far? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Who is it? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29399	Mr. Markovic, I ask you to contain your anxiety and emotions and wait for the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29400	It's not the M.O.P. We're not. Who's been paying the shooter so far? Why didn't he pay from now on? Why didn't he pay this year? What didn't he see in that? It's not the M.O.P. The M.O.P. has never done that before. We've never paid for shooters, never, not even under this law, nor will we pay for them. So it's not our jurisdiction. We don't have the resources, and we don't do it. Those who didn't pay them should explain why they didn't pay them. If that's a bureaucratic explanation - we couldn't do it, so we'd rather break everything just so I don't answer, and that's a good explanation. Let's just hear it. The MUP wasn't in charge of it, nor was he ever paying the shooters, nor was he responsible for it. As far as the Ministry is concerned, we get missiles every year since 2011. It's the procedure that goes the most this year, more than ever, and we'll be happy to give it to the hydrometeorological institute. The finance ministry made a good deal. So we now have 6,500 rockets, they're now buying another 4,000, although we still have these missiles in our power, so they're not spent and another 4,000, as soon as they're spent, in accordance with the needs of 14,500. It's a serious argument, it's a serious number, it's easily verifiable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29401	I thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. Mr. Markovic, please, you are certainly aware that you are unable to obtain the right to reply for conduct. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: For what? ) Listen to me, please, precisely because you do not want to listen and wait for the opportunity and the right to reply. I'm sure you've earned more than a few reminders because you've been throwing, entering the minister's word, but Mr. Secretary is in the mood to answer all the questions, so, please, you have the right to a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29402	Your Honor, I am truly sorry that you misunderstood my discussion. I actually wanted to point out a few things that are essentially causing a problem for the functioning of this system in the next period. First of all, your discussion gives you the impression that you are very much in the mood to be responsible for everything that has happened in the past few months and years and you're transferring to another institution, I just don't know if you're aware that after the adoption of this law we come to a problem that there are no 500 million dinars for the functioning of this system, that people will be in trouble, and those who need to enforce the law and especially the citizens of Serbia, or producers. The only money that exists here is $287 million for this year from the Ministry and 80 million from the Ministry of Finance, which means you have 367 million at your disposal. There's 500 million missing. You will simply withdraw and transfer your responsibility to others for all the failures and mistakes that were in the system. When I talked about local administrations, what the proposal is, let's see how after applying this law and local administrations can affect how they can solve these issues, how they can finance and how they can be an integral part of this system. When I mentioned that it is not normal for you to adopt this law on 16 June, it refers to the fact that the law was to be adopted in January, in February, that all institutions are involved in resolving these issues, not waiting for this many accidents and accidents, to do damages of 50m euros this year and then adopt a law that will take effect at the end of this year, or in the following year. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29403	Time, thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have a few more seconds. You interrupted me. Well, Mr. Markovic, I interrupted you for two minutes and five seconds. If you have not read the Rules of Procedure, the replica takes two minutes. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Yes, if only a few sentences can. ) Mr Markovic, you too should act as an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to respect this high house and you do not. Here you go. Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29404	Next time, I promise, Mr. Chairman, I'll bring you a little book to read to you how they did, what bills and where they paid and who paid them. That I promise you, a special session to tell you all about. Believe that you will be shocked when you hear, as I was shocked. E, but because of the truth about anti-urban protection, so far, the money has been allocated to 280 million dinars that the MUP has allocated with its budget, 80 million that have been allocated by the Ministry of Finance to pay for the shooter and an additional 220 million for the purchase of missiles, totaling 580 million dinars. The figures that are mentioned, and I know who's placing them, let me say, these figures are figures that have never been used in the last ten years. These are projections, you know, it's like if we could get another two, three billion euros right now to make it easier for us. Well, I know, but there's one seriousness of functioning in work. This is a figure that provides quite enough, 580 million dinars for shooters' salaries and for rockets provides complete, and pays of course employees, provides full protection, i.e. to the greatest extent. Of course, what we have to tell the citizens, the overall protection from the city is only 70 percent successful in all countries. There is no protection against a city that is successful 100%. That kind of protection from the city, that's what the profession says, there's no 100% protection from the city, it just doesn't exist. So the overall success is 70%. We're trying, of course, to make it as close as 70%, not to be 50% or 60%, and I believe that with this number of missiles we'll be successful enough. Of course, the Republic of Serbia will take care if these missiles are fired, and there is still need for this, we will ask for more rockets to be acquired and as a minister who will not then and will not be in charge I will fight because it is the interest of all Serbian citizens not just one ministry. So, we're not trying to transfer this to someone because that someone has no responsibility so far, and we've had it, so now we won't. Excuse me, the hydrometeorological office has a responsibility and has a day today. These people say, "Where's the target?" They say, "Is there any cloud or no cloud?" These people say that, it's their responsibility. We have a responsibility in the purchase of missiles, period. It's the responsibility of the M.O.P. It's completely pointless that you have a torn system of responsibility, one they buy, one they move, one they pay, one they give radar data. It's completely unnatural. You know, the MUP deals with all sorts of things, but protecting from the city is completely unnatural, it doesn't exist, there's no such experience anywhere in the world. You know, I guess someone would remember if they existed somewhere, so to say -- you know, there are in Germany, those small countries underdeveloped, Germany, France, England, the United States, the Russian Federation, those smaller states that aren't as powerful as we are, I guess somebody would do it that way. It doesn't exist anywhere, of course. It's always connected to radar systems as much as they run away from it. You want to do some work, so there's a responsibility. Imagine if I said -- you know, criminals need to be chased by an institution or someone, it's not really for us. Well, what's not popular, it's your jurisdiction and you have to work, it's your job. So, I totally understood your exposure, and I fully understood it, and I and I are seeing this as one contribution today, and we will certainly consider all the amendments. Some of the amendments will certainly be accepted, there are different things we talked about during the day. There are good amendments that correct the text of the law, especially in terms of the report submitted by April 15th, which should be April 1st to give us time to correct it. Of course, now I'm telling you this is a better situation than it's ever been. Is it ideal? It's not ideal, but you know nothing is ideal, there's nothing ideal. So no one here has said at any point that this is great, that everything is going to be great, no one has said that at any point. Is it gonna get better? It's going to be far better, and the people who are doing this job, who are professional and professional and who are working in the Emergency Sector of the Ministry of the Interior have also given their own court and I don't see which are better experts than those experts who have been working with us for six years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29405	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Markovic, you no longer have the right to a replica. Mr. Minister, believe me, I won't be surprised because that's the same thing in the Vrbas municipality and they can't pay street lighting today and 50 million Vojvodina Waters. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29406	Many times said today is responsibility, running away from responsibility, irresponsibility, so I would ask Mr Markovic – is it the responsibility that, for the first time in 25 years, of multi-party in Serbia, is the first time the law on anti-building protection is adopted? And what is all that Mr. Markovic and his DS did, which didn't even make the effort, that they weren't responsible for the citizens of Serbia, so that they could pass the anti-urban protection law? So that the law defines the way in which such situations are handled. They didn't care. In 2011, after a storm and one of the troubles that hit Gornji Milanovac and the neighborhood, just to mask that responsibility, they transferred from RHZM to MUP and the dots, nothing. Is it a responsibility to put, by law, what we put under the same hat, on the same address and tracking and following orders and shooters and getting missiles and doing absolutely everything. What we people's MPs will do, as will the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if anything happens, will know who was responsible, who was following the city clouds, who was giving orders, who acted, who was getting the missiles. All in one single address. What was Mr. Markovic doing? First, he had no law, no law. And when you don't have any law, then there's no responsibility. And when you haven't been responsible, don't call anyone else to account. There was a misunderstanding between the MUP, the RHZM and the local self-government unit, who does what and who is responsible for what. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Please the chairman, it is time for the replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29407	Mr. Granny, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29408	I didn't know Mr. Becic, just that Mr. Markovic was running a session of the National Assembly. I'm just going to ask that in the future, when someone calls for responsibility, they still legitimateize themselves by showing responsibility. Mr. Markovic and DS have no right to call for responsibility because they showed her they don't have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29409	Replica, two minutes, Mr. Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29410	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you for two minutes and 30 seconds. I apologize for warning you, but I see you're talking to a colleague and it's been a while, so I was forced to point out that failure. As far as responsibility is concerned, Mr Babić, today is 16 June 2015, for three years you have been talking about the responsibilities of some other people, and for three years on this subject you are in fact fooling the citizens of Serbia, fooling people about some responsibility that happened or didn't happen, and around you is ignorance, publicity, and unhappiness. The bottom line is that many things happen in the country because you don't do things right and then there's today's bill of law that needs to hide all that kind of irresponsibility that's at work. I'm from the best intentions, Mr. Minister, if you can follow, I wanted to point out that there is no defined responsibility of the people in the system at point 21. Here in the law there is talk of the responsibility of people who have done something on the access roads, who have fenced some buildings in the protection zone and so on. There is no possibility of determining responsibility for those people who have not done or have not done the jobs for whom they are responsible. That's what this is about. So the proposal is to extend this question at point 21 and to point out that kind. Given, Mr. Babić, that it's likely the agreement to transfer responsibility to the Institute in this way, to leave a large space, or a large hole in the functioning of 500 million dinars, you've probably consciously avoided that possibility of pointing to those people who won't do their job. It is necessary for both the director and all people in the line of governance to be covered by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29411	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go. Replica two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29412	No, Mr. Markovic, we're talking about our responsibility here because we've proposed a law and we've given it to the procedure and we're talking about your irresponsibility because in 25 years or 12 years, and for God's sake 15 years in Vojvodina, you haven't even made an effort, no draft law to give about anti-building protection. You didn't even talk to the local government, so you didn't do anything about it. We're talking about our responsibility and your irresponsibility. Yeah, it took a while, of course it took time, because we wanted to talk to local self-government when we made the draft and the bill. Then when we transfer something to local self-government, you say you're not exhausting local self-government. Now we're saying it's on a voluntary basis whether local self-government and AP Vojvodina will participate in the definition of members 8 and 9, you say, no, you should've been forced into local self-government. What would our people say-- are you wearing one mind? Do you have any equal policies from morning to night? Do you want something to do with local self-government or not? This law has passed public procedure, public hearings, for all this it takes time. That's where we spent what you said for three years. And where did you spend 15 years? And what did you spend 15 years in, Mr. Markovic? By knowing what is done in Koserić and not knowing what is done in Uzic. By knowing that he is in Koseric and how and what, and five million euros he left your candidate for president and former president of the municipality. When he was doing so well, so why didn't people pick him? So neither you nor I know what is done in Koserić. They know the citizens of Koseric. They chose by choosing other people in two terms. They sent him back to history. Now, that's the problem, that we keep looking at someone else's yard, that we keep saying, you're irresponsible because you put the law in the process, and you who didn't give a single letter of that law, you're responsible. In what way are you responsible? To those people to whom the city harms, to whom could they turn, to whom? Whose is the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute? Whose is it? Private, yours, mine. No, it's not. He is within the government of the Republic of Serbia and there is no escape from responsibility. The only escape from responsibility was you, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29413	It's time to... I'll give you Markovic, I just have one sentence to say. So it's time to finish the replicas, I'll give you and possibly one lap and we'll be done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29414	Mr. Chairman, I'm really asking that we all have the same rights and the same conditions here for discussion. Mr. Babic has already broken the term for more than half a minute, and you're cutting me off all the time with the incursions my speech and without such a glare performance and with this time that Mr. Babic has had, Mr. Babic can't explain to me the kind of gaps and problems that have been happening in the last few months and several years in the work of this government, in the work of these ministries, in the work of people who are competent and responsible for the behaviour of institutions, who are responsible for the lives of people. So I'm asking the question -- which is why the failure was made and why there was no position in the government budget of the Republic of Serbia to pay for the services of shooters during 2015, and which is why you waited for such a disaster to take place in the evening and you say, "It's okay, we're giving out 80 million for that purpose." Which is why there are no responsibilities and questions as to whether or not the very reason why people didn't act is because they didn't make contracts. Don't call yourself here. I don't know what things from history. For three years, you've been ruling, you've been talking about 15 years and 20 years, you've taken responsibility and let me know when you become responsible for what's going on in Serbia. Mr. Babić, in Koserić, I know the opportunities as well as the opportunities in Užica, Mr. Vujadinovic did not go into the second round of elections. Do you know why? He wasn't a candidate in the election, because of the dirty campaign you've done to him, for all the slanders, for all the criminal charges you've filed with a man. The man said, I'll never be in politics again. If there is an honest and good man, it is in Koseric and Serbia. So, these are the kind of people that you've gone on with your campaign for all time, and they've lost their chance to work for the people and do good things. It's the result of your dirty campaign you've been running for three years. Instead of saying how we can get those people back, you're still making the same mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29415	Here's what I've allowed you to do. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29416	I'll just take a minute. First of all, truth be told, those are well learned sentences, you know that – don't go back to history. That sounds great, sounds wonderful. However, when the result of something is determined, it is then seen what previous actions are, what are the consequences of these previous actions, actions and inactions, failures and all that has been awarded by some previous period. You know, when you look at 1992, there's no law, and it can't say -- let's just let it go for 15 years, like it's important, take a little credit, break up the community, destroy the companies, it doesn't matter now, but let's see what we do now. That's great. But as with Koseric, you know, when you find debt, maybe that president of the municipality was the most wonderful man in the world, he left a debt of two budgets, two budgets of debt. You know what this burden is for one local self-government, two budgets and a small municipality. I was just asking if you're from Koseric, and you nod your head and say yes, and you're from Uzic. I thought there were principles of academic honesty here, but I'm not sure that's the case, but obviously you don't know what's going on in Koseric. You study this well, and I will provide you with everything that I have seen and you have it in public sources of information about what was happening in Koserić and what situation occurred after the most wonderful man who managed the municipality of Koserić. Never mind, let the municipality of Koserić, the problem with the municipality of Koserić is that these people are thrown at mercy and mercy and are now fighting. We have come to this because this municipality certainly cannot qualify for the order of those who can separate significant funds for anti-building protection. But as far as everything else is concerned, believe me, there isn't any here, we can talk politically now or in one way or another, but what's the bottom line that this legal solution is going to do something better today than it was yesterday. Whether it will be the last best solution, we don't know it today, as they did in 1992 when they abolished it, they didn't assume, no one did it with intent, they didn't think it well, as all the other governments didn't think afterwards, let's sort this area out. This government, the government of Aleksandar Vukic, wants to regulate this area, wants to pass legislation, wants to help Serbia have as little damage as possible, that manufacturers have as little damage as possible and that those institutions that are responsible for hydrometeorology, for forecasts, are also dealing with prevention, protection from the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29417	Replica, Zoran Babic. We're done with the replicas. Mr. Markovic, just a minute, Babic was already reporting for replication on your replica. In the meantime, the minister signed up. I guess Babic's got the advantage, he picked up before that, but we're done with the replica, Babic still has the replica and we're done with the replicas. Sign up again, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29418	In the National Assembly, some other rules apply and these rules are defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and quick fingers and reporting are more likely for some quizzes that are available on television with national frequencies, but those rules do not apply here. Since fellow Markovic has asked some questions, I would be happy to answer. Why wasn't there more money and why weren't the missiles bought? You know, they weren't bought, Mr. Markovic, to settle the debt left by your former president in Belgrade with 22% of the Belgrade city's budget deficit. One billion euros left us with a debt. No, Mr. Markovic, because we had to replace six million euros stolen at the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard. Well, do you know of Serbian citizens how many rockets can be bought for only one marifetteluk and one theft on King Alexander's boulevard of six million euros? We couldn't buy it because we had to settle all the damage your Minister Sasha Dragin did in Azotara. We couldn't buy it before because we had to compensate for the damage with Oliver Dulic's optical cables. We couldn't buy it because we had to compensate for the damage you did at the Vojvodine Development Bank, so at the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, wherever Boyjan Pajtic involved his fingers and where DS involved his fingers, there's a minus, and there we had to compensate for the damage both the Universal Bank and the Agrobank and the reconstructions of all kinds and wherever you did something and that you left something minus. Well, in order to buy rockets in time, you had to leave a more orderly, fairer, more responsible job. You didn't do that, Mr. Markovic, and we had to make up for your damage and your criminal activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29419	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. No, we're done with the replica. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Inadmissible. Well, then, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic. Here you go. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, Rules of Procedure. I have already given my word to the MP. Here's Milicevic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It's not right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that the MP club of the SPS fully agrees with the view that, for the sake of general and public interest, this extremely important and important area, i.e. the job of protection and defence from the city needs and, after so many years, to be governed by a special law, a law that will, in a comprehensive way, settle this very important and important issue, by a law which, as you said in the opening statement, Mr Minister, will improve the single defence and protection system against the city, as an integral part of the system of protection and rescue from the elemental accident and other accidents. I will agree in the conclusion that the current current current system is not functional, that it is somehow divided and that many such systems are and have contributed to the 2011 decision to have this job entrusted, i.e. to be in the jurisdiction of the MUP. Of course, there have been a number of problems at this point, and you've talked about it as a lack of human resources, the inability to hire and finance a person to operate, or shooters, and I think you've made a great finding in that context, that since this job has already been entrusted to the MUP, it's also logical for the MUP to be a supervisory authority or to manage both "The Ways of Serbia" and "Serbia to the Waters". In no country is this business in the jurisdiction of the MIP, I agree with what is stated in the light of this legislative proposal. So we have one bad system, a system that is in a certain way, unfortunately paralyzed. We're not saying this to criticize someone who launched an initiative in 2011 to make this decision, so we don't call for responsibility. It is simply that we want to point out in this way the need for the system to change, that the system be improved, and the law that we are talking about today is precisely the result of the work and coordination of several ministries within the current Government of the Republic of Serbia and the law we are talking about today, we will agree, one responsible and serious government relationship with this extremely important and important issue. We believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal wants to improve the defence and protection system against the city in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that it wants to be precise and clearly defined powers of both the Republic of Serbia and the province and, of course, local self-government and that a stable system of financing will be defined when it comes to defence and protection matters from the city. Investment in anti-urban protection, i.e. in protection and defence against the city, is also worth it. An analysis of some economic effects suggests that a dinar that is invested in protection from the city may even be returned up to 14 times as much during a period of time. It has already been said about this, the intensity of this legislative proposal is that through an integrated approach to protection, to ensure an integrated approach to the protection against the elemental disaster of the city, with a combination of active protection measures, i.e. defences, and passive protection measures, i.e. insurance. We think this is a good concept. We think that this is a good approach that can give the desired results and, let's say from the point of view of agriculture, because agriculture, unfortunately, and farmers, are the most endangered, can be able to preserve more fruits, which again means better supply, which means lower market prices, smaller imports, higher employment in the food industry, and on the other hand, this concept and this approach, which is also very important, can relieve the republican budget, i.e. less intervention by the republican budget and local self-government when it comes to compensation for damages. Protecting the city is definitely a burning problem for agriculture. We think that we can all agree that agriculture is a real development opportunity for Serbia and that the observed measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES are taking to improve the investment and business climate and improve the investment and business environment in agriculture. Agriculture is one of the few sectors that in years behind us is making a surplus when it comes to foreign trade. For example, in 2014, when Serbia was hit by severe natural disasters, floods, we have surpluses, I think over a billion euros. This speaks quite enough in favour of finding how important it is in the right way through a quality legal framework to edit and define this issue, i.e. to edit and define this area. By adopting this law, we solve this issue through one systemic approach, which is very important and we come to what is really the most needed right now, which is that in the simplest and safest way to protect farmers, above all from the elemental disaster of the city. What I also want to say, and about this legislative proposal, we believe that it is positive that local self-government had the opportunity to give suggestions and suggestions on the draft of this legislative proposal. Among other things, this legislative proposal has been withdrawn from the procedure in order to respect certain suggestions and suggestions and to reach as high a quality legal framework as possible. It is also positive that several quality public debates were held in co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which could be seen and heard by the proposals and suggestions of interested parties, interested persons, educational and scientific institutions, and which were respected and used by relevant international organisations when drafting this law. So, we really believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal wants to enable a permanent and sustainable solution to the functioning of this system, that in the long term it wants to remove all the problems and shortcomings that have accumulated for years and have made it difficult for this system to function and that we will finally put an end to one confusion and chaos that existed on the ground. As for the third legislative proposal that we're talking about today in just a few sentences, I'm going to take the opportunity to announce the SPS position, so it's true that this area is regulated by the Explosive Matters Act, flammable liquids and gases that were adopted in 1977. It is also true that the last amendment to this law was made in 1994 and the very fact that the law was passed and the last amendment was made in parliament is sufficiently saying that new legislation is needed. It is clear that the current law does not follow modern technical solutions, is not adapted to modern regulations and is imposed, as the minister said, on the obligation to separate legislation. So, by passing the law, we believe in what is defined as the goal that is to be achieved when it comes to this legislative proposal, to ensure all legal assumptions that, in accordance with the modern technical achievements and regulations of the developed EU Council, Serbia achieves absolute agreement when it comes to legislative order in this area. Once again, we fully support and consider the justified goals that are sought by the adoption of this law. First of all, we mean greater protection and security of property and persons, more efficient work by state authorities, better co-operation by state authorities, the use of international standards and international practices, the adoption and application of new sublegal acts and technical regulations. Penalties and infringement proceedings are in line with the provisions of the Fire Protection Act, compliance with the Chemical Law, as well as compliance with the provisions of the Regulation on the placing of expert examinations and conditions for obtaining a licence and authorisation for the construction of the main fire protection project and the specific fire protection system. At the very end, I will point out once again that the SPS Parliamentary Group in voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29421	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29422	Your Honored Chairman, I really don't think it's right for you to act this way, whether you're the chairman or any of your colleagues from the presidency, to treat the MPs of the opposition. We've been in an unequal position all along, and that's why I want to call Article 104 right now. Rules of Procedure, which states that we have the right to point out these violations of the Rules of Procedure in case we misread the exposure we had. This raises the question of whether Mr. Babic was even in the O.R. in the afternoon, whether he was even listening to what we said in our presentations. I never once said rockets weren't bought. The rockets were bought, the minister said, and it was not disputed. This raises the question of who is responsible that the missiles stored in Užica were not transported to Kragujevac, with the excuse that no delivery vehicle was provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29423	Please, Mr. Markovic. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am asking you to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not to make a replica of the presentation of certain Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29424	I explain the context for which I was misread and why I later experienced an insult from Mr Babic, who also talked about Belgrade and Serbia, only did not mention "Belgrade on Water" and some projects that have completely confused the citizens of Serbia. He listed various examples here, which are beyond the context of what we were saying. I have the right to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29425	But, please, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's been replicating you. There's a replica in the replica. I followed well. I appreciate that you want to make a statement of your violation of the Rules of Procedure and I don't mind you taking it out, but you have to make it clear to me what I did when I hurt the Rules of Procedure? You have to explain it to me, because it applies to me, not to the MP. The MP has the right to try and tell the minors what he wants. It's under quote, I think we understand each other. But it is the duty of the chairman to prevent it again in a dignified way. Therefore, I ask you, in that sense, that when you talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you must make it clear to me what I did when I hurt the Rules of Procedure, not what Babic said. Here you go. If necessary, I'll pay you back all the time, but I want us to understand each other. I have no evil intentions here, no towards you, no towards anyone. I've announced in advance that we're finishing a circle of replicas that come out, I've assessed it, from the domain of the debate on the law that's on the agenda, and I don't think that makes any sense anymore. Here, I'll give you my word again, if you feel you need to further explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29426	Mr. Chairman, since you were not in the O.R. during the previous period, or in the afternoon, as well as Mr. Babic, I have just stated in my presentations that in the bill of this law, where a large budget gap of over 500 million dinars is opening is jeopardising the functioning of the institution...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29427	Mr. Markovic, I will not allow you to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29428	I have two sentences to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29429	Let you know if I've been in the O.R. before or not. I did an injury to the Rules of Procedure when I sat here. Please explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29430	So, I was just talking about responsibility. I talked about the lack of responsibility on many issues, which is why people are damaged, which is why they were exposed to major disasters, without the protection of the state. Mr. Babic... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29431	Please, Mr. Markovic, sit down. I'm asking you as a friend and a friend to sit down, rather than take action. We're continuing the debate. Do you want us to make a statement in the Voting Day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29432	Can I just have another sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29433	No, thank you, sir. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? The word has Veroljub Matic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29434	Thank you. Dear ministers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, great attention is paid to this law and by the MPs themselves, from the government, from the ministry, from the media, from farmers, from local self-government, and likely that this bill of defence deserves this attention. She probably contributed to all this by an aggressive city that has become more aggressive in recent years, as well as other disasters. We've been lawless for a long time. Since 1968, defense against the city has been conducted. There's been no law since 1992. So, without a special law, and in accordance with the Ministry Act, the RHMZ is doing defense work against the city. In 2011, the defense of the city passes to the Ministry of Interior, or to the Emergency Sector, where the Emergency Sector is doing part of the job, and part of it continues to be carried out by the RHMZ. All that's been working for the last 23 years without the law, and defense against the city. In such conditions, without laws, where the RHMZ and the Emergency Sector work together, local self-governments appear and without any order and system buying missiles and partly paying for anti-urban shooters. In such conditions of defense against the city, where there is no system, where there is no responsibility, major problems arise in defense of the city, and the solution is that a new law must be passed, which we have in the Assembly today. The proposal for a law on defence against the city provides good solutions, given the following fact that climate conditions are changing in the direction of an increasingly frequent and destructive city and other disasters. As a result of the city, huge damages in agriculture and forestry occur more and more frequently on residential and economic buildings, and their prolonged activity is also on the food industry and all that is based on the farm's poverty base. The number of days of follow-up is over 100 over the year or the fact over 50. I think it's serious, with the tendency to increase that number of days. The absolute success of the defense against the city doesn't exist. It goes up to 70%, which the minister himself said and depends on the time of fact and efficiency and then, if in time, effective and effective, I think the anti-building defense can be successful and close to 70%. The city cloud does not know the boundaries of municipalities or cities and should be effective in the phase of their development. The more effective the larger the territory, the greater the success. Therefore, the defense against the city must be implemented in a unique manner at the level of the Republic. The city's defence law defines the city's defence system best, because any other solution would not be sustainable. This bill allows for a realistic and sustainable defence system against the city through the most important provisions. It provides uniqueness and integrity throughout the territory of the Republic. The entire anti-urban protection system is in one place, i.e. in the RHMZ, where it is the only natural habitat to defend itself against the city. The highest level of expertise is represented here. Radar systems work within the RHMZ. Anti-graders will be hired by the RHMZ and it is very good for them to be in a unique system and to have minimum unique compensation for the reasons that all anti-urban shooters, regardless of where they are in Serbia, are doing the same job. The command, or orders for facts, must go from the radar centres, or from the RHMZ. Buying anti-building missiles, too. International co-operation, which has little to say about today, must be at a high level for reasons why with the countries of the environment, and especially through Drina, the greatest danger from the city comes from that side. Local self-governments have their place and role and should have it, because they directly cooperate with the competent authorities, support in the recruitment of shooters, estimates of damage from the city, etc. As far as funding is concerned, there have been a lot of words about funding here, and I think that's also improving the situation, and in particular there have been few words, I think that's what my colleague Marian is going to talk about, suggesting that 5% of renting state-owned agricultural land is directed towards anti-urban protection. Perhaps this law should be corrected by the proposed amendments, by accepting certain amendments, especially those which are not essential. It seems to me that in Article 7, the preparedness report, a lot of words, were to move the report on the preparation of the city's defence system from April 15th to April 1st, that the 9th percent of the damage was not seven days but 45 days, that it was more precisely defined in article 19 that the supervision was carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. This draft law will contribute. First, insurance houses, apart from giving 10% of the anti-urban protection premium, will be less damage, will pay less and their income will be higher. Agricultural producers and the food industry will be largely protected because it will function effectively against the city's defence, which is the goal of all producers. All in all, we are all winners in this country by passing this law and applying it properly. Since after 23 years, a law with very good solutions has been offered, I would say Bravo Government, Bravo Minister, so that this law with certain amendments will be very good and applicable, because it is part of a single system and are unique in command. This is a semi-war system. It can't react differently here, but in this way as proposed by this bill. I would just like to say briefly that this law completes the amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, where it is clearly stated in Article 3 who is responsible for the functioning of this law, i.e. the proposal for a law on defence against the city. Normally, the SNS will vote for this proposal and probably for good amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29435	Since authorised representatives have exercised their right, we are now moving on to the list of registered MPs. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29436	Dear President, Mr Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we are talking about a bill on defence against the city, whose application is expected to significantly improve the anti-building defence and to specify the responsibilities of the Republic, the province and the local level of administration. This is a classic form of prevention. Whatever anyone wants to say and whatever political option it belongs to, we have been mostly dealing with the consequences so far, and we have heard just before how long this period lasts – 23 years. The law is much better than the one we've had so far. It is adapted to EU regulations, which may be missed. This matter has been regulated legally for the last time in 1992, so we can say for sure that for the first time this area has been regulated legally, perhaps even since the beginning of the multiparty. This bill also regulates a stable way of financing city defence operations with precise definitions of the role and obligations of local self-government units. Also, an area of international co-operation in the city's defence system has been arranged, given that the city's damage is often affected by the situation of a natural disaster. This is a very important thing and my colleague from LSV told me before how important it is to look at, i.e. when we talk about this, when we define this area how important international co-operation is. Over the past decade, between 100 and 110 days in Serbia's territory on average were between 100 and 110 days with potentially dangerous clouds. So almost one third of the year. To date, the state, of course, has suffered enormous damage because of it. Jobs that have so far been in charge of the MUP, the Emergency Sector, and the proposed amendments to the Ministry Act, are scheduled to return to RHMZ's jurisdiction, which was the case by 2011. Of course, this is an opportunity to finally create a single system of anti-building protection, not to have one system, that is. We don't have a system where different responsibilities are scattered, which by local self-government, which by some other ministries, and of course in such a situation everyone tries, when there's some trouble, to wash off their responsibility. I don't think there's any responsibility to any other ministry in this way. On the contrary, it seems to me that everything is being set up where it should belong. The Serbian government has stated that there have been some problems since the start of anti-building protection operations within the MUP, and that the largest has been created because of the inability to finance the engagement and work of shooters and the acquisition of anti-building missiles. This anti-grader protection system has not functioned effectively in the MUP due to a series of problems that have arisen because there was no clear normative framework for its operation in a specific system, such as the MUP. The anti-urban protection system is not in the jurisdiction of the MUP in any country. I think that's what's said, but it should be repeated so that we don't delude the citizens with all kinds of semi-information. You should say that, too, I'm trying to say things that aren't said, that fines are prescribed. For a violation of the law, there are between 10,000 dinars and a million dinars, and that must be it. You cannot not punish those who contribute to disaster after great proportions. The fine of 100,000 dinars to millions of dinars is intended for a legal person if it restricts the passage of a person engaged in defense against the city and transport of missiles to a radar centre or a launch station, or if works are carried out in the radar centre protection zone or launch stations that prevent radar measurements or missile facts. That's also very important. The important thing is that there will be an increase in compensation that has been miserable so far. As far as I can tell, it's going to be about eight thousand dinars, which is about three times as much as it was an average that these people have been getting so far, then you can imagine what conditions these people have been working on. The city defense season begins today, and currently has only a quarter of the necessary rockets, and it's just amazing for me to say why we're talking about him today and why the law needs to be passed by emergency procedure. We've heard from the Emergency Sector at the MUP that for the season at least 12,000 rockets are enough, and that with supplies from last year, along with purchases that are under way, half the needs can currently be met. That's another reason why the law needs to be passed by emergency procedure. This year, about five million hectares of agricultural land will be defended from the city, two million hectares in Vojvodina. The authorities found last year that an effective defence against the city required as many as 25,000 rockets, but it should also be said that our country never had, as far as I know more than 12,000 that represented a minimum in order for Serbia to be able to secure itself. In addition to the MUP sector, rockets for their stations can also get local self-government and that is good and it is good that there were local self-governments who had awareness of it and financial opportunities to dotate for these things. Of course, some have done so so far, and of course it is positive for these local self - administrations. It should be said that the draft of this law on defence against the city has been agreed, that public debates have been held in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. I don't think we could hear that today. The problem of missing both missiles and shooters should be said very clearly that it has become chronic since 2009 and just since then SPO warns of the damage that was possible, and the damage in one year was such that it was three times larger than that of the state, for example, to buy 25,000 missiles as much as it was potentially needed for Serbia. So, only in one year was the damage three times bigger. The Serbian Renewal Movement has spoken of this many times to many governments, but unfortunately there was no hearing. Although our defense system has been built against the city so that the radar at 12 active anti-citizen centres can't move any suspicious forms, the lack of missiles still binds hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29437	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29438	Let me just have one more sentence, literally. The bill stipulates that funds for financing the city's defence system are provided from Serbia's budget, the units of local self-government budget, parts of the crop premium, we heard 10% of the premiums, city defence fees and other burns, in line with the law, and I think it's a good proposal, that it should be considered to rent 5% of the agricultural land so that these financial resources could be very important, when it comes to the allocation of funds for something like this. I would add perhaps just that we people who like to celebrate, if we had a little less fireworks, especially in Belgrade during various celebrations, and we used a little more money to buy rockets, I believe that today we would have, perhaps a little more raspberries, apples... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29439	Thank you. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29440	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, Mr Maric, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia will support the proposal for a law on protection from the city, as well as other draft laws on the agenda today. As I prepare for this session, I tried to find information about what was written about the anti-urban protection press, so I will remind myself of just a few titles published last year, "the emergency headquarters is looking for additional funds", "Dacic: combing the anti-urban protection system", "the city cut down orchards in villages near Cačka", etc. I also read that Serbia ranks in a group of countries with the least effective anti-building defence system, while in the EU, it is effective in 50% of cases in Serbia, at only 20%. I guess this is also enough reason for the adoption of the anti-urban protection law. Yesterday, the Assembly Committee on Agriculture accepted and supported the new law to defend the city, noting that the effective functioning of the defence system will require about eightm euros a year, i.e. 20 to 25 000 anti-building missiles. This proposal receives a law in line with European practice after 23 years. Otherwise, in Serbia, the system is based on rocket technology. In addition, more aircraft technicians are used, with this technique much less limited. I can't help but look back at the anti-building protection in the City of the King from which I come. Namely, the Kingdom City Assembly adopted a report on the implementation of the work programme and the Financial Plan of the Fund for the Development of Agriculture for 2014, in which, unfortunately, no anti-building protection was mentioned in any word. The plan says that some 75 million dinars were spent slightly more than 68 million, accounting for 90% of the funds. The city council recently agreed on the Development Fund's financial plan for this year, the plan surpasses some 30,000 dinars of 69m dinars and yet there is no importance of anti-building protection. At the same time, the regressing of the premium of crop insurance, fruit, multi-annual plantings, nursery and animals is intended for 18 million dinars. Last year, the king experienced floods of catastrophic proportions, and significant funds were spent to resuscitate the consequences. After the disaster, we heard different findings, and that was the last session of the city council, so that the damage would be incomparably less if more had been invested in prevention. It was mentioned that a dinar invested in prevention saves five to seven dinars to resuscitate the consequences. I believe it's a similar relationship when it comes to anti-building protection. While the previous days in the King were rather thundery, farmers looked up at the sky with a chill, for nothing else they could do after they knew that the shooters at the anti - city stations had only received three missiles. As a result of this above, the city's protection laws need to be adopted by an emergency procedure, in order to be applied as soon as possible, as the new law will significantly affect the improvement of the anti-urban defence system and will specify competences at the republican, regional and local level. This bill also sets out a stable way of financing city defence operations, with precise definitions, roles and obligations of local self-government units. The law provides for anti-urban protection operations to be in the responsibilities of the RHMZ in the future, which was the case by 2011. The law also regulates the area of international co-operation in the city's defence system. In view of our country's area of damage from the city, the situation of elemental disasters is often met. Over the past decade, between 100 and 110 days in Serbia's territory on average were between 100 and 110 days with potentially dangerous clouds. Therefore, we must not allow our farmers to have the only protection from the city as a view of the sky and to pray to God not to drop the city, but to support and adopt a new bill on protection from the city, and that will be done by all JS MPs, with an emphasis on a position that offers several ways of funding from the state budget, municipal funds and the register of insurance houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29441	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29442	Citizens and Serbian citizens should know several facts. First, the city has been falling for several hundred thousand years, so it's not a newspaper and it's not about the previous one or the previous one, or the one before that of the government. For more than half a century, anti-building protection is applied in a way that is part of this law, means rockets and is carried out every year, whether it was law or not, and 1991, 1992 and 1993, and all these years. In order to welcome the season of battle against the city, between April and October, it takes about 20,000 missiles and 3300 shooters, if I'm not mistaken, and some other expenses. All of this is somewhere below four million euros, or if it's better to understand, under half a billion dinars. That's 0.05% of Serbia's budget. It's part of Serbia's budget. These are the ridiculous minimum means needed to take whatever it takes to ensure that protection is effective. We heard from the minister that this year the largest number of missiles in stock. Then why weren't they fired in May when Arylya, Ivanica, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Užice, Parachin, Dovebac, Big City, etc. died? The damages that are still being estimated are already being measured at over 10m euros, and the investment that was needed is below fourm euros. There's no excuse for the fact that there was no law. From 1992 to today, there was no law, so the fight against the city was carried out, more or less successfully, depending on how much money there was, but it was the least important thing, but it was important how much some government was seriously dealing with it. Why aren't those missiles fired? Why wasn't he found any other way? There are a lot of things in a country that are undefined by law, so all these problems are solved again. It doesn't have to be regulated by law. It can lead to an overnomation of some matter that complicates life. Is it true that it's completely pointless for it to be part of the M.O.P.? I couldn't agree more. Why did it go there in 2011? Let's ask a coalition partner. Say, if I'm not mistaken, then the minister was Ivica Dacic. How can he, the party president, plant such a hot potato, that's not so logical. We have a situation to say that previous authorities have not passed the law for 23, 25 years. There were all kinds of ministers in those authorities. I remember some names. There was Minister Aleksandar Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, Yorvanka Tabakovic, Vojislav Seselj, etc. Krasic, etc., etc. So that's not the problem. The problem is that someone took their job unseriously at the beginning of this year when, in this legal way, by passing laws or regulations or by other sublaws, the regulation did not regulate this area. I repeat, four million euros. It's less than it's spent on the Serbian government's airline service. It's less than it's spent on mass, I agree, who mentioned fireworks and some other stuff. But that's not why we don't know who's to blame. I am sure that such a law will not bring improvement because, as some colleagues have already said, there are many shortcomings in who is responsible for what. It's better than lawless, but it's not good enough. So the NS will not support this law despite those amendments we've given. I know it does not interest the majority sitting across from me, but it is of interest to the citizens of Serbia and it would be good to thank a number of speakers for the graduate agricultural engineer Dragan Nikolic, whose text from the "Knowledge on Gift" site has been quoted by many. So I think it's fair and fair to mention a man. It has little to do with academic honesty and human integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29443	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29444	I have to say that I am convinced that this law will improve the situation in anti-urban protection and, of course, it is important that today we pass the law, because this area cannot be too much of a disaster because the area has not been done at all. Everyone that the M.O.P. has nothing to do with the shooters. So we have nothing literally to do with the shooters, but we have to do with some other parts, so part of our ministry that's gone from RHMZ to those radars, so then these people are supposed to be part of a system that's completely different, and then those who follow the creation of clouds, so all of that and there's this situation that's completely unsustainable. Of course, this law will better set it up and better resolve it and we, of course, have provided for specific funding. We have really more rockets at our disposal this year than before, along with the Ministry of Finance, which provides additional funding. But, let me tell you, the city is something that, of course, needs to be seriously thought about and the state authorities should think about, as well as agricultural producers who live on these products and, of course, as you provide a mandatory car every year and protect it from various damages, it should also be ensured, of course, that summer. We had an interesting situation on August 30, 2003. You remember who the Prime Minister was then. Then we had a situation that the city was very strong in Zrenjanin, Titell and Backo and not only destroyed all the fields, all the crops, all the greenhouses, but in the building of the Zrenjanin Assembly it destroyed the visions that were from Austrian times. That's the story, when you were talking about the seriousness of how seriously some government is getting ready for it, in August, and the anti-grader starts on April 15th. As serious as it was being prepared, it shows this information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29445	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. On what basis, don't I understand? (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: Personal address. On what basis? He doesn't understand. He didn't mention your name at all. He did explain your discussion, and there was nothing incorrect about it, please. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Marian.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29446	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, dear guests, respected citizens, especially respected farmers, I expected my previous colleague to push harder, not only to vote for this law with one finger on the switch. I expected him to vote with all five fingers on the switch. I expected him to vote twice for this proposal, since it was a fellow farmer. But when I think about it, he has no reason to support this law anymore, since in three years, when he cashed in the vineyard, he gave up agricultural crops and is no longer concerned about the vineyard he once had. That is why I have the understanding of this refusal to vote, but I must also introduce you to the position of the committee that was brought yesterday, which reads – by accepting the proposal for a law on defence against the city, the Committee proposes that in a responsible, unique and integrated way defend the city. I didn't say the city, but we peasants could say that we should be defended from the city and the city. The Committee takes the view that, in accordance with these and other laws, the Agricultural Land Act and other laws, sufficient resources are provided to defend the city effectively and to take into account the problem of staff shortages in the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, all of which in order to implement the law. The Committee also recommends to the government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of living environments and the Agriculture Land Administration that the championships in the reconstruction of the Atari roads have roads leading to anti-urban stations. Can you believe the representatives of the former regime voted against this conclusion? I couldn't believe it yesterday, but I'm obliged to say this on the other side. I also have to say that we held a preemptive session in early May, to warn both the government and the ministry and all the authorities, including local self-governments of some of the shortcomings that later contributed to the damages in Ariel and Ivanjica. So then we also came to the conclusion at that session and asked to speed it up. Can you believe that those who are the most complaining, who are the most now calling for the fate of farmers not to vote, were not even present at the session at which it was debated? They didn't want to come. But when the damage occurred from the city then they were the loudest to dictate over the unfortunate fate of damaged farmers. Not to read who was present, not to raise an ad, but here you can quite well conclude that none of the members of the Committee on Agriculture of the former regime's members have come to participate in this committee. He also complains about the former regime's party and the protection of domestic production. I also have here a list of the Committee that we held in early December, 9 December 2014, where we asked the Government to urgently introduce levies in accordance with Article 32. None of the former regime's parties voted on these conclusions to protect our domestic agricultural production from excessive imports. Today we hear not as in the Assembly, but as in the Mitins, they whine and narrate over unprotected agricultural production, and when committees and sessions are dedicated to protecting agricultural production, as well as meetings dedicated to protecting from the city, they either come or vote against the conclusion that should guarantee more effective protection from the city, I say again from the city, not from the city. As far as these laws are concerned, of course I will also support the Law on Defence against the City, but I will also support the Law amending the Ministry Act, given that these are two compatible laws and that we need to move our defenses against the city to the Ministry of Agriculture that we need to amend the Ministry Act. That's what I'm going to vote for both of those laws. To make it clear to others, you should see when God gets angry with a certain people, when God gets angry at the territory, when lightning hits the ice, when in 10, 15 minutes a year disappears, and often the years of torment, the sweat of farmers who are engaged in agricultural production, needs to be seen, when your city destroys crops, you need to see this destruction that guarantees your annual work, your annual income has gone to the wind, you need to see it, and then you get power and not vote for this law. So, we who have suffered such damages, which were often 100%, when it takes you 15 minutes of the year, the annual flight takes away God, ice, lightning, storms, when you see it, then you realize that there is no such large anti-building network, and I would like it to have them, to protect all the villagers, to protect all the crops across Serbia. However, such a large anti-building network does not exist. This law will not fully protect people from the city, but it will contribute to making the damage we suffer as a country far less. Here they say that defense against the city costs about 500 million. My former colleague used to say that. I don't think he knows the issue completely, and the big step of admitting ignorance is a big step towards knowledge, the one who doesn't know he doesn't know, he already knows something, and I believe he'll understand after my discussion. The defense against the city to be in office costing about eight to tenm euros, but we only had damage in Ivanjica and Arilj for one day, which was a billion and 200m dinars, on one single day for one single day of impunity, a damage that could have been reduced. If there was a real fact, maybe that territory would have been protected. However, it is not and the damage that has been caused is far greater than all the necessary funds needed to protect the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, from around 70% to 75% of success. In this regard, the Committee concluded at that session, when members of the former regime did not want to take part in a session of the Committee dedicated to the defence of the city, that 5% of the total revenues generated by the agricultural land leased in the state property protection of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that the 5% of revenues go into defence of the city. It's about three to three and a half million euros, depending on year to year. In some year it will be more because there are years when more countries are leased, when it is the starting year, and then instead of one year they are paid two years, one year as a guarantee for the last one, so these revenues will vary a little bit, but mostly one year we will get more, next year less, but some mean value we will get for defending the city is about three to three and a half million euros just from that proposal proposed by the Committee on Agriculture on the day that they boycotted that session. The Prime Minister's office, I don't talk about the Prime Minister often, but the Prime Minister's office and the working group that was there about the amendments and the addition of the Law on Agricultural Land have accepted this proposal, and this was found in the draft and I believe that they will pass through the government as a proposal and will find it before the MPs. So, it's not about the amendment, it's about the future law, which will come on the agenda very quickly, that 5% of the revenue goes to protect from the city. I think it's fair, they don't have all the municipalities of the same territory, they don't have all the municipalities of the same budgets, some have 200 million, some have five billion, some defend their territory with more shooters than defend city municipalities. It is just and solid, since the state country to the whole state, not only to municipalities that collect income from it, it is fair to be solid and to have local self-government, the province and the Republic of Serbia give up the share of income and that 5% of total revenues belong to the defence of the city, because it is also good for those who give up. The Committee has gone further, as a second point, which is compatible with this law, we have sought, we will continue to ask, that in the Encouragement Act, one percent of the total incentives go towards defence against the city, which would lead somewhere to two and a half to three million euros, and with what we get from insurance, would even transfer a total figure of 10m euros that is necessary not only for the purchase of missiles, not just for the defence of the city, not just for the payment of the shooters, but for the restoration of a lot of abandoned network of anti-building stations, to rebuild radar that are 40 to 50 years old. So I'm surprised to the members of the former regime's party who didn't remember that they were 12 at least to get one new radar, etc. Today, the territory of Vojvodina is protected by only one radar near that famous vineyard. So, this very radar right now covers the entire territory of the Vojvodina and, God forbid it breaks down, we would be left without anti-urban surveillance of the anti-urban clouds and, as they say, city clouds. We wouldn't have anything to look at in Vojvodina, given that two radars are malfunctioning and need to be refurbished immediately, because nothing has been invested in the restoration of radar and radar networks and anti-urban stations in the last 20 years. Also, radio link stations are over 30 years old and they need to be restored. The Committee's conclusion asked the Department of Land and the Ministry of Agriculture to restore the first routes of war, atharic and war routes leading to anti-urban stations in a more efficient way to access the anti-urban stations. This is what we discussed at that first session of the Committee, when some of them for some of their reasons refused to come. We also discussed this at the second session, which some wanted to come to, but they thought it was not worth voting for for this improved version of the Law on Defence against the City. For their political reasons, I do not enter, as a politician, I am grateful to them for yesterday voting on the Committee against this law, which regulates in a very favourable way defense against the city, certainly in a better way than it has been before, because they voted against the anti-building protection being moved to the RHMZ, to the Ministry of Agriculture. I am grateful to them because in the following campaigns, I will use it against them and talk about hypocrisis, talk about hypocrisy, false protection of farmers, false moaning, and when it comes to showing that you are willing to do this vote, you do not want it on the Committee either. I will be grateful to them and if they do not vote for this law, because I will use it against them, but I am obliged to say that the Committee has taken a few more steps and that we have sought, of course, without their presence, to continue the subsidy of anti-building networks of 40% and to protect those plant cultures, those fruit trees that can have an anti-urban network, because you cannot put the anti-building net on wheat, corn, sugar beet, but you can also seek to continue to stimulate the purchase of anti-urban networks. We also asked to continue the dying of insurance and Mr. Arpad even suggested that their local self-government do so and to add more funds to make this insurance for farmers even cheaper. We are also grateful to the insurance companies who have asked for 10% of their premiums, have we understood their philosophy that if they put something into protection from the city, and therefore we are grateful to them, then they will also pay less damage when farmers have less damage to the crops, then they too will pay far less insurance for the damage that has been done on agricultural crops. That is why I am grateful to the insurance companies who themselves have suggested that their share of the preliminary insurance income be taken 10% and transferred to this insurance. I am obliged to say about subsidies that subsidies are paid by farmers who have their own land, who do not rent state agricultural land, that those farmers who rent state agricultural land pay rent and part of that lease, part of that income will go into the anti-building network. That is why we, as the Committee, will insist that 1% of the total incentives, those obtained by farmers who do not rent state agricultural land, those receiving subsidies, that 1% of these incentives be separated to protect agricultural crops from the city. I know we're not going to protect everything, but as there's a surplus of funds in the budget, even if we're going to build a fund, we can react from it in parts that because of the plane's overrun, because the plane's landing couldn't be protected or along the border, where the fact of the missiles is not allowed, that some of the funds we're providing damage to and those who are going to suffer damage because the anti-urban defense can't operate in certain conditions, in certain areas. I believe we've made good decisions. I believe that brothers in sweat, brothers in torment, gentlemen in peasants, that there was justice they would long have been worthy of gentlemen, but given the parties of the former regime they did not welcome to be, but I think the peasants will give us some points because we will protect their torment, their stings, their sweat. Especially because we have balanced, that we have protected the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, that we have protected those who have no income from agricultural land, that we have brought the solidarity of all peasants to protect their torment, their sweat, that as few people complain over spilled milk, or over destroyed crops. I think that's why they'll be grateful and I think they'll condemn the parties of the former regime because they won't vote for this proposal and because on two committees they didn't want to vote on the board's conclusions, to protect their suffering from God, as much as they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29447	Mr. Markovic, on what grounds? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. He didn't call you at all, didn't mention you at all in his discussion. You don't have the right to a replica, I don't see the basis. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I explain? ) (Zoran Babic, from the place: Zadremao Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29448	I didn't really hear Mr. Babic, did he think that you were taking a nap or I was taking a nap, but since he probably mixed his last name, I listened very carefully to the previous speaker and I heard a few very offensive expressions and to me as a member of the board who didn't vote for a conclusion, from nagging, nagging, hypocrisis and things like that, so I expected you to have heard the same thing. I guess Mr. Babic thinks you didn't hear right. If you think it's wrong for me to have a replica after this presentation where Mr. Risticevic said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29449	Thank you The Word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic No, I don't. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: I can't get a replica of this exhibition?]] Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: So you agree that this is the hypocrisis that happened yesterday? I'm an authorised party representative and I have a right to replication. ) Mr Markovic, you should read the Rules of Procedure well and see that the right to give a replica has a chair. In addition, the reasons why you have the right to reply are listed, but in the end, the chairman decides whether to give you a replica or not. I don't think you have the right to a replica and please sit down. Thank you very much. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Please... Don’t argue, for now you are challenging me to take other measures. Please sit down. I'm asking you to sit down. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: But only we never have the right to replica. ) Mr. Markovic, I give you a warning, although I have asked you nicely. So I asked you to sit down and warn yourself that you had no right, and you continued to interfere with the work of the congregation and therefore I give you a warning. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29450	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable ministers, the honored guests, the distinguished Mr. Babic, that time from the '90s, fortunately, will never return again. Slowly, I think the intrinsics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are to return to the big door, but we will prevent that from happening. It's hard for me, Mr. Minister, to focus on this particular topic at the moment when all this is happening in Mladenov, but I'll do my best. Since 1992, there has been a legal gap, and I am very well and listen carefully today and follow everything you have spoken. I think it's inadmissible from 1992 to today that anti-building protection is being placed under the authority of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute. You mentioned the integration of anti-urban protection and I think you're right and I don't find it hard to admit it when it is. You were talking about the purchase of rockets by the MUP and you were talking about hiring shooters, that it's again something that's divided between the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute and local self-government and ultimately the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute that monitors climate change. I think there's too many different organs when it comes to this one thing. There are temporary contracts again, and I suppose occasional jobs for shooters who were only hired in one part of the year and of course your ministry has nothing to do with the shooters. And that's also more than clear. There are some things I can really agree with. What I can't do and what we're not clear with, is it seems to us that aside from this solution, which makes complete sense somewhere, integrate everything into one. We think that this makes it easier to manage the entire anti-urban protection system. But on the other hand, we have a feeling that there's a transfer of responsibility from the ministry that's only been supplying missiles so far, unless I'm mistaken. And so far you haven't had a certain responsibility when it comes to this matter. That's absolutely true, and I totally agree with that. But somehow we're trying to get the hot potatoes from the ministry to the Republic hydrometeorological institute. It seems to me that this is done in order for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to say – here, we as the Ministry have nothing to do with this, and you are sure yourself, I am fully convinced, that this situation will happen, as it happened some time ago when it comes to these municipalities in Serbia, that such situations will be repeated and repeated, as they were in 2003, you have said, as they were in the 1990s and as they have been in the last few years. So it doesn't mean that there will be or won't be a city of whether the government works well or not, it is a higher force and a matter of climate change, but it somehow seems to me that responsibility for each of the next similar situations when it comes to the city of the Ministry takes off and will say – here, we will now and legally bring something that will definitely belong to a hot potato to the Republic hydrometeorological institution. They, on the other hand, are not satisfied to the end because they believe that the purchase of missiles is something that will take away huge funds for which they have tried to enable them to find them, and when it comes to financing their basic activities, and when it comes to further building and investing in new technologies. What detests employees of the Republic hydrometeorological institution is what they think is very bad because they see it as an exclusive responsibility for everything that happens in the coming period. The Republic Hydrometeorological Institute can't have absolute responsibility, and the second one doesn't have a situation where it takes eight million euros a year for these situations to never happen again and for us to have good prevention, at the time of purchased missiles, at the time of hired shooters. So, eight million euros, and you know it yourself, it's necessary for this thing to definitely be set up as necessary. However, only threem euros were provided in the budget. Then those people from the Republic hydrometeorological institution think -- yeah, you transferred us responsibility, but that's not why you transferred the budget to us, and you didn't transfer the funds to us. I don't think that's fair. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia as well as in previous years... I would not be outsmarting with you at all now whether we as DS or as the former DOS or in certain situations as some co-habitation government did something at certain times in Serbia, whether it was the government of Vojislav Kostunica, whether it was the first, second or third SNS government, or the government of the 1990s, because I think it's better if the law that regulates this thing was passed when it happened. So, better now than tomorrow, better today than tomorrow. So the sooner the better, and it's not at all controversial. Let's see what we can do and as MPs of the opposition that when the debate on amendments comes, how and in what way can we warn that some things are easier for the Republic hydrometeorological institution when it comes to this matter, that we don't even put them into a crackdown, that we don't tell them – here's all the responsibility for all the next situations that will happen when it comes to the city, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't actually have any political responsibility when it comes to this matter. We're also worried that the government didn't react in time this time. The day after that great damage the city of Vlad had done, it reacted. Turns out it's too late. The government reacted because it knew that the 700,000 euros needed to be pre-warned were missing. However, about 100m euros in the value of goods destroyed in this last city fell. So, out of the 700,000 that the government failed to secure, 100 million was damaged. So it's for science for every next time. I honestly believed that this time we would come up with a solution that we would never miss 700 000 euros again. In this solution, we will again be in a situation next year, perhaps still this one, God forbid we are missing 700 000 euros again because there are not enough funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget that are set for anti-building protection. And again and next year, we're going to get into a situation where we have 100 million because we're going to say -- that's RHMZ's responsibility. I don't think that's good practice. I believe that while you are on the legal side completely clean and you are absolutely right when you tried to integrate this system and your argument stands, however, I think that, broadly speaking, by the responsibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take, when it comes to anti-building protection, we have not strayed from an absolute single step. It'll be easier to integrate all of this in one place, but we'll still have a problem with finding eight million euros to track the shooters, or we won't because it's now three million euros, so we'll be in a situation where we have rockets, that there's no one to fire them, so there'll be damage disproportionately higher than the costs needed to keep that from happening. So that's what the basics are, let's say, a grudge or doubt, when it comes to this law. I still have, here are two questions about the version of the law that you delivered to us and the one we're discussing today. It can't be seen if he's fully in line with the Air Traffic Act. So that's one thing. If so, here it is, by chance I had to be out of the O.R. at a few moments. The second question is, is it in article 14 of the funding left to be financed from part of the insurance premium? So this is a position somewhere contrary to the laws of the European Union. Security is based on a voluntary basis. So, are we going to be in a situation where we take 10% of the profits or not, that's something that doesn't represent practice in the countries of the European Union and that, for example, we can still, in the form of amendments, discuss or possibly find a solution that won't be at the expense of those agricultural producers who actually experience something like this when, here, someone, for example. He didn't pay his insurance, so he just has today a product that doesn't exist completely anymore, that he's lost and that he can't use on the market anymore. I'd end up with all these examples. I would ask the minister if he could find time to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29451	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29452	Thank you. Let me tell you, here, let's get out of this. You say, "You understand the arguments I have made that they stand." You understand the legal formulation, you agree with the integration of the system. You agree that the MUP never had a responsibility, not at this point, for the shooters, but you can't help but think that we're trying to transfer responsibility. I just don't understand it. Those responsibilities we don't have, we're trying to transfer her. So, first of all, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute is not a private institution, it's not an independent institution. The Republic hydrometeorological institution is, by law, a special organisation of the Serbian government. It's government service. So it's an institution run by the government of the Republic of Serbia that educates for some part of the business. He has the government's administrative oversight through the Ministry of Agriculture. So there's no avoiding the government's responsibility. It's just that I can't take away the impression that somehow you don't mind having a minister call for it directly, as if you're missing it politically, but such a director who may be nice to you and I'm touched by this relationship with the head of the RHMZ and the DS because, indeed, it was, no, I appreciate it, there's nothing that a man has found to get to you, softened your hearts, to explain to you about this difficult situation, simply, suddenly something is going on in RHMZ that's never happened before. In fact, when you look at that from 1968 to 2011, the anti-building protection is in the RHMZ, 44 years old, and the last four in the MUP, now suddenly RHMZ is given something that they are simply, oh, my God, suddenly being given something new? God, if he's got you, trap people, save us from this. I'm sorry, so I guess the government of the Republic of Serbia can determine, that's right, the law gives the possibility, what it will propose to the National Assembly. Do not forget that you, as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will finally decide whether this will be or not. The government can't decide this. Only the National Assembly can pass the law and you elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in parliamentary elections, free and democratic, will decide with your votes how it will be arranged in the Republic of Serbia. Since this is the first time we've arranged this after all these years, I guess the National Assembly, I can't influence the vote, of course, I can just ask it to make that decision. If the National Assembly so decides, what kind of director, what the minister can say about it, but listen and say – of course, that's how it's going to be done, that's how it's going to be done. So, the truth is that five million euros have been provided, that you know exactly the exact information, 540 million dinars, five million euros that will serve as anti-building protection. I hope we don't need more than that. If it's necessary, it will be. We're all budget users, by the way. Is this about the RHMZ, the Ministry of Agriculture, the MUP, the defense, the culture, however, we're all budget users. When the next year's budget is made, we'll apply for those funds and no matter where, it goes from the same register. The RHMZ won't be damaged because it's an institution, so it won't be able to use any funds or the MUP will be damaged because it's a MUP. So, it's just that, really, right now, I'm saying without any irony and no sarcasm, it's not natural for anti-building protection to be in the Ministry of the Interior. It's just not natural. If it were natural, you'd have at least one other country in the world, at least one would. None of them do. As for your objections, we'll certainly adopt some of them, and we talked to our colleagues about it, and I think we had a good and constructive approach to all the groups yesterday. I and this debate in the congregation see it as a desire to fix something. Everyone has their own principle, someone, of course, speaks more politically, someone more professionally, which is also normal because we're not all professional in all areas. I need to answer you two questions that you asked. So it is in accordance with the Air Traffic Act. We have a detachment system in Greece, Croatia and Bulgaria. In Greece, the largest of 3%, in Croatia and Bulgaria, I do not know what is the amount of their organisations. Something lower than that, but I don't know the exact percentage to tell you. So three members of the European Union have the same system. So, if they have it, it can't be against the standards of the European Union. Of course we'll follow how all this develops. I am the first member of the government who, understanding this problem, when it is and when we talk to the Government about it, when we bring the budget for next year, will remind myself, I take this obligation to and if it will not be formally in the Ministry that I run, to remind myself of how important it is and to ask for additional funds, because I agree with everyone and we have often brought it up. Of course, you know, the state's always trying to meet all its obligations and we've always warned that the damage from the city is often greater, years back, than the money that's being allocated for anti-urban protection. That should be understood by everyone who deals with all systems. That's why it's just good that there aren't 15 institutions here. There'll be one institution that's a drop over the entire system. They are, by the way, less exposed as the Government's service because they are not the aprior political authority, or their leaders are not the aprior officials of political parties. Sometimes it can happen that they are, I don't know exactly in this particular case, but the less pressure of the public, they can deal with their work in a different way than some others do. As far as everything goes, they can simply accept part of the responsibility. When I talk about responsibility, what is not popular must be accepted, and that is the obligation of all of us who are in the public business. I was president of the National Assembly, making sometimes difficult regulations, difficult laws about various times, and it doesn't matter what government proposes, the MP is not an easy job, it's not an easy profession, which people sometimes don't understand. So each of our jobs has a serious responsibility, anyone with a responsibility has to accept it. Those people who are involved in predicting weather opportunities, clouds, etc. need to tell us, and they need to take it upon themselves to throw these clouds at them. It's just something that's common sense in all the countries of Europe, and to say, after 44 years, this experiment of four years has proved to be wrong. If we should have done this before, I don't know why it was done in 2011. I'm confident by talking to my associates that it wasn't the will of the Ministry of the Interior. Why they accepted it then, why the government decided it, it doesn't matter anyway, we don't have to keep looking at what it was and what it was like. At this point, we should watch what we can do in the future, and I agree when the Law on the Republic of Serbia's budget is on the agenda for next year, let's remember that we are not at that time fighting over various things, which are often being broken by political parties, which are really less important to the citizens of Serbia. Come on, then, let's talk about how to spend enough money on anti-building protection, and I believe that even then the finance minister and everyone else who deals with finance will understand what we're really looking for, especially when we analyze the results, when we analyze the effects of saying from the damage to the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29453	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29454	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected to Minister Stefanovic, respected guests, including Mr. Todorovic and Maric, who we had the opportunity to discuss first and foremost this Bill on Defence against the City and the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly of Mrs. Gojkovic, I think it is necessary for this debate, these three draft laws to be recorded here, Minister Stefanovic, here is one observation that the key to understanding the actions of the Government and this debate, and on the issue of the city in Serbia in this year - ineffectiveness. Here I will try four points, respected gentlemen and ministers Stefanovic to explain why I think so. First of all, here, I was just reading the words of an agricultural engineer, for example, and here I found some information that I had checked elsewhere. They say – each invested dinar in the city protection system returns 14 and more times, and then they add that the active defense against the city primarily lasts for a vegetative period from 15 April to 15 October. I mean, as a reasonable man, gentlemen, and especially if I think of myself as some man who deals with fruit-making, for example in Ivanjica, who I visited after the city that was in May, that a necessary man is wondering, so how come this government didn't prepare for this danger from the city until April 15th, when this vegetative period begins, rather than we, respected gentlemen, are discussing the bill of defense against the city two months after the start of that vegetative period, so on June 15th. Look, here's only one logic if we follow, I think Minister Stefanovic, that we come to the fact that there was a kind of ineffectiveness, it wasn't planned in advance, it wasn't counting on what kind of damage it would be, and I'm going back, for example, to these texts that I read and I call here on the ethics of responsibility, a very important principle in the policy that implies the following, Minister Stefanovic. So, the government was ineffective on one occasion or one question, when you come here to the Assembly then you have to say first -- yes, we were inefficient, we made a mistake, but now we want to prevent that mistake from happening again. I think that this is some order of steps or respected gentlemen, for the sake of the city's bill of defence, I wonder, is it necessary for every problem that arises in our country, whether it is necessary to immediately approach the preparation of the bill and to resolve the issue through the law. I see Mr. Stefanovic is laughing now, but here I am, Mr. Stefanovic, being asked a question about possible overstimulation. Look, if we're out of control of something, first of all, we're putting citizens in one awkward situation, they now need to read hundreds of pages of this law and second law and third law and fourth law, etc. Look out, then we're going into one big danger, Mr. Stefanovic, that we have counter-argumental provisions. Do I need to remind the MPs here how many contradictory provisions of different laws we've come across over the same thing during this call? Or, dear Mr. Stefanovic, I noticed that this bill of defence against the city is not about harmonisation with the EU's legal system. The EU's legal system, Mr. Stefanovic, is insane, and we now think about everything that appears as a problem we will solve it through the law. It's actually leading me back to one question of inefficiency. Is there anything this government can do without sending bill proposals, and we saw just now, and Mrs. Gojkovic has confirmed that we haven't had a session here for 19 days, because the government had nothing to send to the National Assembly, respected gentlemen, and the SNS has nothing to send, and three of our bill proposals squat here and instead of discussing it, there's no session for 19 days. Or, Mr. Stefanovic, here in the transitional and final provisions, you provided for a period of six months for those additional regulations that must be prepared to make all of this work. And then I ask myself, Mr Stefanovic, the next question - well, is it necessary to give ourselves another six months for those regulations, if we have made an assessment. Can we do that to Mr. Stefanovic in three months, then show the citizens that this government is aimed at a kind of efficiency? We have submitted an amendment, Mr Stefanovic, not one but twelve amendments to these three draft laws. The two amendments concern efficiency in terms of regulations and I expect most of these 12 amendments to be adopted, respected by gentlemen and Mr Stefanovic and Mrs Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29455	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29456	As for the three proposed laws and if the SNS had not discussed them, the Rules of Procedure say some laws would be discussed, the legislator must be there, but Mr Pavicevic played tennis. But, Mr. Pavicevic, the promoter was at sea. He got tired of hard assembly work, of proposing an amendment "expunged", of running away from the session when there is a vote on laws and amendments. We couldn't secure the bill promoter, because that's how Madam President, and that's why we couldn't do it. This time, therefore, was used very well by the government in significant international activity, in sessions of the government that this government, the Government of Aleksandra Vukic and the SNS did so so far, and did not hold any phone sessions unlike the former regime governments that only saw each other in television studios and held telephone sessions. This government worked hard. This National Assembly has had several significant activities that international, which is a committee session, is preparing the Action Groups for the reform of the political system. The fact that Mr Pavicevic could not see it from the beach, from the sea, from playing tennis, from riding a motorcycle, it is more his problem, but here in the future I am ready to inform him every day of what is done in the National Assembly, because SNS, colleagues and I are the first among the equal, we are here in the Assembly every day and I will neatly inform Mr Pavicevic about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29457	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29458	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Stefanovic, respected guests from the MUP, respected Mrs Gojkovic. Two things I want to say now to the Members of the People about the replica now held by the MP, Mr Zoran Babic. First of all, I have to remind the MPs that last year, I gave Mr. Babic the blessing of doing my biography. I even gave him a book by Vladimira Dediera a new contribution to the biography of Josip Broz Tito so that Mr Babic might have a real role model in writing and preparing my biography and I am grateful today to Mr Babic for informing all of us that I play tennis. I've been playing tennis since I was five and on the tennis court, gentlemen, I think any member of the SNS would win just as well as I win the assembly debates here, honored gentlemen, and I see now support here and applause. The second thing, respected gentlemen of the three Bills, is that we have tabled 84 MPs here to initiate a debate on these Bills, and here to remind the honourable Members of the People's MPs, but here is Minister Stefanovic, the guest of the ministry of the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlement, which is an alternative to that rag from the law as we have called the law which was defended by Mrs Mihajlovic here, which we changed two weeks after we adopted. Be careful, gentlemen, we have also proposed a proposal to supplement the law on higher education, a bill on freedom of fear, and how the 84 SNS MPs did not initiate a debate on the proposals of the law that lays down in the assembly procedure. Nineteen days I waited for the respected Mrs Gojkovic, there were no SNS MPs to initiate it. Unfortunately for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29459	Thank you. Now it's not about matter. I'd like to give my word to a minister who says he should get the advantage when it comes to matter. I understand that this is about the absence of MP Pavicevic who was on vacation. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I was not. ). I understand that, I don't know the essence, and when looking for replicas, I have to give people an advantage, that is, to MPs who are mentioned in replicas. I cannot find an exact interpretation in the Rules of Procedure, so I ask Minister Stefanovic for a little patience, because MPs want to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29460	When someone in one sentence mentions the blessing of Joseph Broz Tito, there is something wrong with him. When someone adds to Jova Kapicic as a coalition partner and associate, it adds another dimension. When we add white leaves to all of this, here are the biographies that were flying between the left and the right, between the blessing and the Kapičić, between everything and everything, mixed and mixed. When we add to all of this the support he gave, let's say, Professor Dulic, who openly advocated and said that the UCK is a "peaceful organisation", it is already dangerous. I, not that, do not want to do such biographies, but such biographies, I don't think that, according to Serbian citizens, they should even be sitting here among us. As far as this likable name is concerned, the cloth of the law. Whether it's a rag or not, the law brings building permits to investors and citizens of Serbia in 28 days. What you and your politics are, the politics of those who sit in front of you, have brought you to the citizens is nothing but patience, and you gentlemen are a touch, and that is why you are on the political margins, and we have not brought you to these margins; you have brought yourself from Dulic to the white paper, from Kapicicic to the blessing, but by the most, by the criminal actions which you have provided for yourself, and citizens with patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29461	I'm just asking you to come back on the subject. I'll give the replicas, since the hard words are spoken, but let's give the Minister a word, and I'll just try to influence you to get back to the law. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29462	Thank you. We have just begun to discuss some brighter topics, although when it comes to defending the city, it is difficult to talk about brighter topics, and I have just heard that Mr. Pavicevic is holding a racket, which has interested some other colleagues from the MUP, but they have not understood that well, so I have explained what a racket is, rather than going back to these issues regarding the Hydrometeorological Institute. So you can't talk about insanity here, because there's no norm here. We don't have a norm that's been arranged since 1992, and that's not good. On the other hand, as far as the EU is concerned, we have three Member States that have similar norms and these people have decided to defend their country's interests and the Republic of Serbia has decided to defend the interests of its citizens, we have no conflicting views with the EU's Aki, but we have a desire and our need and our task, our first and primary task, to take care of the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. It's a task we have to accomplish. As for the sublegal acts, I suggest that the RHMZ now seal day and night and not be in three months, but if they can do it in two months. So, if I can do it in three months, because it's up to six months, and they can do it before. Let them get busy now, day and night, and let them do it and show it to shine, to show that they have been the most successful of all state institutions in many years, and I'll take off my hat first and say, "Here's a confession, let's do this job right." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29463	You want a replica? Who? You can't tell Stefanovic, not because I don't let you replicate him, but there's no basis, and Grandma can. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I am looking for a replica and Mr Stefanovic and Mr Babic. Why is Stefanovic protected? He is not protected, but has no basis, he is a good speaker, so he does not cause any replica. Grandma can do it, and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, honored guests and respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, here are three points to respond to Mr Babic, the replica he just had. First of all, I think that Mr Babic should decide whether he appreciates and respects that I work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because occasionally from session to session, he said one respect for my engagement, for my commitment, and sometimes for the number of amendments adopted, and sometimes, as Mr Babic says today, it would be best if I didn't sit here. I see one contradiction here, in the head of a man and I only suggest that Mr. Babic decide what he thinks or is worth what I'm doing here, and then repeat it, or consider it, this is worth nothing, and then from session to session, Mr. Babic, tells that story. Secondly, I gave Mr. Babic a blessing for writing a biography, I gave one kind of consent, since Mr. Babic showed a desire, explores my life, sees me playing tennis, tennis racket, Mr. Stefanovic, playing tennis, can't play tennis with other means, and whoever plays, Mr. Stefanovic. So, Mr. Babic is doing all this research and I see that he's getting ready to write contributions to my biography and I'm giving him a blessing and I even gave him a book, a biographer, a politician, for whom I estimated he could be a role model, because it's a good and thoroughly written biography. I now see that Mr. Babic did not read the book I gave him, and Mr. Babic, read it entirely. Don't be like the Prime Minister over there -- over here, all read. The third thing, Mr. Stefanovic, is that for everything there is a solution or in response, we have the writing of the law. It doesn't need to be our approach. Imagine we have a lot of laws, hundreds of thousands of pages, so that's not worth it to Mr. Stefanovic. It is known what means the rule of law and law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29465	Thank you. (Marian Rističevic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Next time I advertise my Rules of Procedure, my hand is numb. See, everyone's looking for an advantage right now for the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give it a line, to make sense of someone, a dialogue between them, so I'm going to give it to you, because if we cut between, there's no point, then it turns out that everyone has a point of their own, and they're talking something in between. I have to give the replica. I'll give Grandma a line, if she wants to use it, and I'll put it between them, because no one can catch anyone who talks to anyone anymore. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I go first to the Business. ) (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Replica. What are you looking for? Be kind and sit down, you really didn't mention anything. [[Jovan Markovic, from place: Right to replica.]] No one mentioned you, no one mentioned the parliamentary group, the Democratic Party, the minister didn't answer you and I don't see your role in anything. Would you be so kind as to sit down? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I can say...) You can't say out of the blue, please release Ambassador Babic. It's better than taking a break. You can stand, but you won't get a word. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: So much insult that I can't understand. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29466	I thank Mr. Markovic for being courteous at last. What's not good, which is that the Rules of Procedure is consummated as they are and how they want it to be. I think the Rules of Procedure prohibit the direct address of the MP. But some things are very permissible for Mr Pavicevic, which are not allowed for others. When someone jumps out of law enforcement, from normal parliamentary and congregation behavior, of course I'll say and of course I'll give criticism. Like when someone is constructive, when someone wants a dialogue, when someone wants to come out of that dialogue and come up with a good deal and a better solution, of course I will commend. Generalization doesn't exist. The generalization of which one is always commended does not exist. There is no such thing as the Law on Anti-Build Protection, that is, to protect from the city, to talk about anything but those solutions. No one can get my support. I am not professional enough to write anyone's biography, and I have no political or personal interest and interest in Mr Pavicevic's biography, to do so and to write it. And even if I had a gift for something like that. Before long, but also in front of other colleagues and colleagues is much smarter and bigger work than we will be monitoring whether Mr. Pavicevic's engine is called "Munja", who is on it, when playing and where he plays tennis, but by showing it on social networks, he wants that kind of public, so there is no need for anyone, me or anyone else's interest. The only interest is Mr Pavicevic's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29467	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29468	Just one more sentence, let me, since there was a bit of a time slip at first. As for these tennis matches themselves, I still think Mr. Pavicevic must first go out alone, to elections or qualifications, to qualify, to get into a situation to play.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29469	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I am looking for a word. You don't have to get up because you can't get the word. You took part in the time of the previous MP by trying to speak, and his time was on. Is he all right? What replica? [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have no right to reply again?]] Come on, please don't be like we're kids to discuss this. I didn't... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Did you not hear in the first sentence? ) He said – I thank the apostle for that and for finally sitting down. So there's no replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been holding the Rules of Procedure patiently for 15 minutes, my hand's a little numb, but, never mind, I respect that my colleagues from the opposition ranks, even though they rule in Vojvodina, have been given the word before. I'm advertising Article 103 and Article 107. Article 103 is because an MP who advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure gets a word immediately after the presentation of his previous colleague. That wasn't the case. I'm not asking you to vote on that. Article 107 speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly and the use of offensive expressions. What was offensive to me as a believer? Here, Mr. Pavicevic has already blessed several times, addressing his colleague Babic directly. So Article 107 - direct address is forbidden. Article 107 also says that the use of offensive expressions is prohibited. For me, it is terribly offensive, as a believer, if the blessing is given to me by Mr Pavicevic. To me or to anyone in this National Assembly, a blessing can be given by the priest, the cardinal, the bishop, the blessing can be given by the bishop, the patriarch, the Metropolitan Amphilochy, and I can only expect Mr Pavicevic to maintain the liturgy and complete the matter. For me, it is very offensive, and therefore I ask you, Madam President of the Assembly, to continue to take care and to warn your colleague Pavicevic when he addresses other MPs directly, because for me it is offensive when he gives them a blessing, I do not think he is in charge of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29471	The only thing I'm going to intervene - I didn't give you a word to the opposition MP before I did from the ruling majority, which is Mr. Babic. You didn't listen well. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) ( ) As for the other violations of the Rules of Procedure, do you allow me not to answer, do you allow? (Yes) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29472	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members, I appeal to the 107th member who speaks of dignity...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29473	He was now a member of 107. You know you can't directly refer to the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29474	But it's not about the same subject, or the same speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29475	I don't know. That's what it says in the Rules of Procedure. I didn't write it. I have no other interpretation but one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29476	Mr. Risticevic called for Mr. Pavicevic's presentation. I want to call Mr. Babic's exposure... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29477	So we can go to infinity, which isn't allowed. Thank you. If you have any other members, please report back. So there could be abuse of all the members, violations of the Rules of Procedure, to get up and say – I will appeal to a speech from the other 250 MPs. It's already an abuse and it's not allowed. Thank you. Be kind, allow the discussion further. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29478	Dear President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a bill of defense against the city. This law regulates, as we have heard, the city's defence system in the Republic of Serbia. The main objectives of the adoption of the law on defence against the city are to finally fully regulate a sustainable system for the control of the city, to ensure an integrated approach to the protection against the elemental disaster, from the city, combining active defence and passive protection – insurance. This is why the city’s defence affairs needed to be regulated by a special law, because of general or public interest, as well as the fact that the anthropogenic impact on the climate is expected to result in more and more frequent and devastating storm accidents followed by the city. The biggest direct damages in the middle of the city occur in agriculture, then in forestry, but also in economic and residential buildings. Due to its meteorological-climate conditions, the territory of the Republic of Serbia is often exposed to the city in proportion to major elemental disasters. In the last 10 years, during the period of defense against the city above our republic's territory, there have been between 100 and 110 days with radar monitoring of potentially dangerous clouds, and on average it is effective in each other or about 50% of these days. The number of days with a fact of the city cloud ranged from 43 to 63 during one of the city's defence seasons. According to data for the past five years, about 12,000 rockets are spent on average, range of up to 8km. The city and the city cloud change both in space and in time, usually affect and move across much larger territories than those covered by local self-government units. It is necessary to act on the city clouds at the stage of their development. In this way, the most common thing is not to prevent the city from falling above the site of action, but rather its fall on the territory of which the cloud is yet to encounter. Due to the large walks that the city has been causing as an elemental disaster, the active defence against the city in the Republic of Serbia has been organised since 1968, in a vegetative period from 15 April to 15 October. The jobs of defence against the city at the initial stage were carried out by units of local self-government and self-government anti-building protection communities in co-operation with the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute under the 1973 Law on Anti-Government Protection. By abolishing SIZ's anti-urban protection in 1985 and by putting the Anti-Build Protection Act out of force in 1992, anti-urban protection jobs in the coming years, according to ministry laws, were in the jurisdiction of the RHMZ. Until the adoption of the 2011 Ministry Act, which has put these jobs in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Emergency Sector of the Republic of Serbia. Time has shown that the anti-building defence system should not have been put in charge of the MUP, but since none of the state authorities wanted to assume the obligation, which it contributed to and the campaign, the MUP added. Opposite protection was thus found in a completely unnatural environment. The bill came as a result of an agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture. With the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, which is also on the agenda, the RHMZ takes over from the Ministry of Emergency Sector of Employees, appointed persons, as well as rights and obligations, items, equipment, means of work and archive to exercise competence in the field of anti-urban protection. The Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection shall exercise supervision of the work of the RHMZ. This law aims to address problems that did not exist when anti-urban protection functioned within the RHMZ. Today, in the area of Serbia, the city's control methodology is being conducted on a total area of 77,508 square kilometers, of which 51,133 square kilometres covers agricultural land. The operating system consists of a network of 13 radar centres, 1,650 active anti-urban stations, a telecommunications system, which makes up a system to connect 50 repeaters and 1,800 radio stations and an operating methodological centre in Belgrade. There have been a lot of problems in this area, and above all, there are a lack of missiles and a problem with paying off and hiring shooters. One of the problems with anti-urban protection is that technology is obsolete. Many radar centres lack workers, a lot of them retired, and no one received a younger one. In the coming years, another number of retired workers will go and threaten to shut down this service, which has been in existence for more than 45 years, as it has not been taken into account the admission of new young people to be trained for at least two years. The effectiveness of anti-building protection in Serbia is twice as low as in the EU. The Serbian anti-urban system has reduced the frequency of the city to 20% and the EU average is up to 50%, according to experts. There is no universal anti-urban protection solution in the world, which is why it is important to find the best model that would suit Serbia. The financing of city defence operations must be stable and secure in order to ensure the sustainability and development of the city's defence system and to continuously implement measures to improve the functioning and development of the city's defence system. Other sources under the law are included in funding, unlike the current state of play, according to which funding was practically brought down to the state. The proposed solution in Article 14 of the city's financing system is provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, part of the premium of crop insurance, other sources in accordance with the law. So far, it has been a practice that most units of local self-government, 70 to 80% of them financially stimulated the work of shooters, and a small part of the local self-government units bought missiles and repaired, even built fewer launch stations, to which local self-government had a comment from the state audit. By passing and applying the laws, besides budgets, the system would also be financed by insurance companies and owners, i.e. land users. Article 15 states that the insurance company is obliged to pay registered agricultural holdings until the tenth month of the month for the previous month for the payment of public incomes, in accordance with the law, for the financing of the defence system against the city's 10% premiums for the insurance of crops and fruits. The provision of agricultural production in our country is carried out on a voluntary basis and is based on the country's own economic account, with partial assistance. According to unofficial data, Serbia does not bounce much of the countries in the region on low levels of insurance in agriculture. The number of insurance workers in agriculture doesn't exceed 10% for neighbors either. He's moving in from 7% to 8%, so we could hear yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture and at a meeting we had with Minister Stefanovic. In Austria, comparisons provide as much as 90% of agricultural holdings, while in France this figure is lower and is about 77%. Harmonisation with European labour and business standards in agriculture will inevitably convince all agricultural producers of the importance of ensuring such a risky activity and certainly need to work more to raise the underdeveloped awareness of the producer of the need to secure the property for personal protection. I hope that insurance companies will also offer better conditions, and this also leads to a greater number of insurance users, to which this law should also contribute. Insurance should be acceptable to the agricultural producer so that he can pay the insurance policy and receive compensation for damages that are appropriate. Insurance is very important, because anti-urban missiles are not all-powerful. Experts believe that the crop insurance situation could be improved if the competent authorities provided incentives and loans for the supply of networks. Until then, agricultural producers can count on the recovery of 40% of funds invested in the insurance of crops or the setting up of anti-building protection under a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In Italy, Austria and other Western European countries, the anti-urban network is very popular. Investment by manufacturers to set up anti-building networks, there is an interest, but because of the high cost of procurement and installation, which runs between 10 and 15,000 euros per hectare, few are those who opted for this type of protection. That's why it has to be a state issue. During 2014, 438 million dinars spent on the functioning of the city's defence system from the republic's budget and 303 million dinars. The planned funds in 2015 are lower because the salary is reduced by 10% and RHMZ 135 million dinars, labour fees and medical examinations of 3,300 shooters. It is important to point out that this was insufficient, primarily because of the insufficient amount of anti-building missiles, with which the system had to be operational during one season, which is 20 to 25,000, of which about 12,000 are spent annually on average. Besides, there was no separation for radar maintenance, radio connection systems, computer procurement and the like. About 160 million dinars were spent for the operation of the city's defence system from the budget of local self-government units during 2014, and about 100 million dinars were estimated to have been around 60 million dinars. According to the 2014 data, 10% of the crop and fruit premiums were slightly over 100 million dinars. I'd like to give an example of the Vrbas Municipality, from which I come. There are seven anti-urban stations in the Vrbas municipality, covering 14 anti-urban shooters. In 2014, the municipality of Vrbas co-financed the work of shooters, which amounts to about half a million dinars for an anti-building period of six months. It means that for one of the Vrbas Municipality's shooters, she co-financed a net amount of 4,000 dinars a month, which was provided by the Republic. During the past period, problems with us were also an unregulated way of paying off, which was an observation of state audit, lack of protective equipment for shooters, a lack of funds and methods and payment models when maintaining the launch stations, a lack of sufficient number of anti-building missiles around the launch station. I would like to point out that in the past period it has been evident that the training and training of anti-graders and radar centres has been at an extremely high level. They had excellent communication with each other, and in the present period, this factor has affected that in addition to the reduced number of rockets, the anti-urban defense system on our territory works well. I believe that this concept of the law, knowing the financial possibilities of the budget of local self-government, including those from which I come, is good and that it is necessary to find other additional sources of funding, because unfortunately we are witnessing the enormous damages that are caused by the inability of a timely fact. The interest of the state, individual or whole society is to preserve the agricultural product, to ensure good market supply and thus to ensure greater employment of the food industry, greater exports, greater competitiveness of the producer, and all of this will have a positive impact on market stability. Given all these reasons, the importance of passing the law itself, the SPS will support the adoption of the Law on Defence against the City and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29479	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29480	The esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, respected co-workers from the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, today the most frequently mentioned word was responsibility, and that was the most violent response when the responsibility was mentioned. I think we must be prepared, and you from the government, and us in the assembly benches, whether from the order of the position or the opposition, to accept part of our own responsibility when it comes to a serious problem. One of the words mentioned at yesterday's session of the Agriculture Committee, by one of the ministry's co-workers, who knows the problem well and this topic, is agony in the city's defence system this year. Yes, that word was used, but not by opposition MPs, but by people who work directly in the system – agony in defense of the city in 2015. I'm talking about finding solutions and looking for that solution. So, what do we got? We mentioned how much the budget is needed to ensure the smooth functioning of this system. Eight or nine million euros are needed at the level of the year. That's what we heard from Mr. Maric. So eight or nine million euros is not a large figure, too much figure for the Republic of Serbia's budget when we know what kind of figures we're talking about and what needs we're deciding in this Assembly. Only from the damages in Ivanjica or Arilla of the city, where the estimated damages are ten million, have we spent more than one year of the necessary budget of the Republic of Serbia for this compensation. That's why we need to talk about the way we're going to get past this problem. I'm going back to responsibility. Since the under-integrated system is mentioned here, I agree with that because it needs to be integrated. We don't know if it's competent and responsible for the MUP, we don't know if he's in charge or responsible for the RHMZ, we don't know whether local self-governments are competent or responsible, where we see that this responsibility is well transferred to the presidents of the municipalities, the City Assembly. Basically, when we find this smallest common denominator for all these institutions, we reach the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia, we reach the government of the Republic of Serbia and the most responsible one in the system, which is the prime minister. You have to accept that responsibility in such a way. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister are the most responsible for the functioning of all of these parts of the Republic of Serbia and the institutions that have to deal with this problem, and then the resolution ministers, who should accept that responsibility, are also responsible for the directors of all the institutions that are in this chain of command, including the presidents of local self-government, whether they have mechanisms or not for the functioning of this system. The other key thing, when we analyze this topic, is funding and that's what we're going about right now and we're talking about funding. We'll be back, eight to nine million euros. I am convinced that responsibility should be taken over in this Assembly, and the opposition may, too, suggest that full funding goes from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why are we talking about the need to integrate this system without transferring responsibility to local self-government? So 175 municipalities and cities. In the definition, this system will be disintegrated and not be efficient enough, as it is given to some able-bodied presidents of municipalities, there are also such presidents of municipalities in these benches, but also those who are less capable and have a lack of mechanisms. So we don't have a single system of local self-government and budget opportunities, but also the capacity of these local self-governments to comply with some standard. What am I talking about about standards? We'll have different standards, because we've had announcements that the shooters, that system of shooters of 3,200 people, are fighting for the rescue of the summer, but also for the rescue of some other goods... So this is not just about agriculture, it's about agriculture, because that's what we're most interested in, but it's about protecting that vision in Zrenjanin, protecting the cars standing on the street, so they can be broken or some other values. For this reason it is not logical to finance only from the funds of insurance premiums we know of, we heard from a colleague, 7% of farmers pay that premium. So those who pay and are able to pay that premium are funding by 100%, plus 93% of those who don't pay that premium. They will not be charged by funding anti-building protection in this way, but will charge from insurance companies their premium. It's part of the illogicality. The second part of the illogicality is that we leave to local self-governments, as an opportunity to finance with their discretionary rights shooters with 5,000 dinars or to reduce that compensation, as we had an example in the town of Leskovec, so we had this fact problem or some self-government willing to pay 20 grand. How do you think the shooters in different environments will react when they hear that their colleagues have 20,000 dinars for that fact, and some have four thousand? This system won't work the right way and it's a practical experience. That is why it is advocated to allocate funds at the level of the Republic of Serbia, because we are able to secure nine million euros, integrate this system with a clear command system, not leave room for local self-government to be effective or less effective, because it will bring many practical problems. We have an announcement, as far as I know, that we signed an agreement with the IMF in which a bar was announced, and we'll see that in the Assembly Hall, there'll be reduced transfers to local self-government for next year. About seven billion dinars of smaller transfers to local self-government were announced, and we impose new responsibilities on local self-government, new jobs. How can we expect them to be effective enough in doing this necessary job? That is why it is important to turn to those people who cry when they look at the harvest they have been growing for years and when they see that there is no income nor security for their families over the raspberries we have seen in Ivanjica and Ariel. I suggest once again, it is important that we think in one integrated way, that the state provides complete funding, that all shooters be equally rewarded, that local self-governments, not to be relieved of these obligations, because they will contribute, out of responsibility to their citizens, to ensure that the access routes to the anti-urban stations are provided, that there is maintenance in the right way, that through this co-operation with the restoring ministries, with the entire government of the Republic of Serbia are precisely responsible. I think it is important now to say once again, the biggest and key responsibility for inaction in this year to date in the area of defence against the city is precisely at the prime minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the restoring ministries. You know for yourself, in 99% of the municipalities and cities, of 175 as many as there are in Serbia, people in the coalition who are in power and at the republican level are in power. Maybe that's some percentage less, but it's the key and greatest responsibility on these people. So, this system is fully in your charge and you have the opportunity to, I call you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29481	Thank you. You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29482	And I invite you to integrate in one effective way, and not leave discretionary rights to certain parts of the system that will just...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29483	You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29484	Now I have one problem as a minister if I want to meet, counterpart Markovic says – we need to commit local self-government, we need to give them more authority to give more money. And you say a little while ago - let's unburden the local self-government, don't impose on them, don't burden them. Now, who do you do now? What's to be here? Otherwise, as far as the legal proposal is concerned, he completely relaxes local self-government. He doesn't make local self-government anything, nothing new. He's giving the local self-government a chance. We live in a real world. There are different options for local self-government in Beocino than for those in Black Grass, that's just the way it is. We can want one to be better, to be more efficient, to be more successful, but a simple geographical position, the ability of people who lead, a competition, more investment, will simply make some local self-government, some cities, some countries, some continents more successful than others. And there's no decision in the National Assembly that we can change. We can only stimulate others. We are once in Serbia, I think, too much not only think about defense from the city, of course, it is a unique protection of both the state and the sea, but you cannot limit someone to invest additional funds. A municipality that has additional resources, which is powerful, influential, has investors, talks to businesses, a municipality like Stara Paza, for example, where unemployment levels are less than 5%, and those people have capacities. Maybe they'll pay those shooters and 50,000 dinars. Maybe they'll buy 500 missiles, that's theirs. But that municipality has the means, it can talk to people, it has attracted investors to its territory not because someone helped but because they were successful and capable. Thus, all municipalities in Serbia that do so will have success. Some municipalities were not so successful and capable. Some felt that the way to debt and destroy their economy was to serve some petty needs and municipalities, unfortunately, would suffer the consequences of the blatant government. Not in the part that provides for the Republic, and that's why we've moved on to the Republic. The Republic of Serbia provides protection throughout its territory, and local self-government along with that part of road planning, access, embankment, illegal facilities and all that provides a minimum of some conditions for anti-urban systems, i.e. anti-urban stations. The local self-government has the possibility now by law, to purchase missiles, if it considers it necessary for its territory, and to invest additional funds in paying the shooters. It's a possibility that no one punishes them for it, writes criminal charges to the presidents of the municipality, etc. What? (Jovan Markovic throws out of place). This is within the jurisdiction of local self-government under the Law on Local Self-Government, and in our Article 9, you have the possibility, that is, of a member of the 19th Local Self-Government. It doesn't matter. That's what we give. Anyway, this is much better. You know, whenever any of us talk, when we go to a political argument and then it's said – and what no more money is provided, it's an easy argument. The opposition always says – there is no more for this, or there is no more for it. Then you ask, "Why didn't you, when could you?" Why didn't you give it to me? Then the government could, so it didn't. Does that mean the government didn't want it then? I don't believe that. I don't believe that. I just can't imagine any government where some monsters are sitting who say, well, they're gonna be a city, they're gonna beat it up, we're not gonna give it away. After all, these governments provide funds for compensation for damages, whatever the government is. So the money's as big as it is. Every time, of course, the battle over the budget, every ministry, every consumer of the budget is trying to present its problems as priority, and for years, however, this year we operate with a record low budget deficit, which is good for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, but there is a budget deficit every year, which is of course when it was greater than that the country's prospects were greater. You always have a budget as one projection, and then throughout the year, you try to try to try, through different fiscal policy measures, to take those holes or reduce them or to actually make the budget work as solidly as possible. It's just that there's not always enough money for everything we'd all want in this room, I'm sure all the MPs in this room want to have more money for both hospitals and maternity hospitals and for education and for the police and for the military and for the anti-urban protection and for the roads and for everyone, but it's just not there. Now we can get into a political debate -- why he's gone, who's guilty, how it got there, but it won't take us far. So what I'm telling you now - I think this law really is a step forward. I think it will help to resolve the situation more adequately because we really had one situation where we didn't know who was doing it, who was doing it, and you're right, responsibility is one important word, but this time it puts everything on one basis. The government of the Republic of Serbia is, of course, responsible for what is the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and there is no dispute, each of us ministers for our resources and when I say – there is no MIP responsibility for the shooters, I do not say – we give up all responsibilities and there is nothing, etc. I don't say that at any time. I'm just saying that when you're not managing something, that's why we're norming, you can't say – I could have done it differently, you don't manage it. You do not have the possibility of an executive order and to say – this needs to be resolved differently. After all, you were the same at the state administration and you know how it works. What was your jurisdiction, what was the higher authority above you that had some administrative oversight over you, what had of the authority of the Government etc. In any case, the National Assembly, I hope, will by its decision all that we have not normed since 1992, and after that we will have a good law, much better than it was in 1992. We'll have one well-organized substance. If we're gonna solve all the problems, I'm sure there'll be room to talk about it. I'm going to fight to get as much money as possible to go to anti-urban protection. I think prevention is much cheaper than compensation for damage not only in anti-urban protection. It's the same in security. Better to invest in police in terms of multiple vehicles, more vests, more training, more weapons, more so that they don't suffer the consequences of both terrorism and crime and all that. It's not always the state's ability to secure all this, but each of us has to fight to find a way to do it. So I tried to really go through one, hopefully, not too long an answer to try to clarify all of this that we talked about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29485	The Democratic Party has spent time on both grounds. That's exactly what he's doing. He's just doing the information to give you MPs. The word is Milan Novakovic, and let Janko Veselinović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29486	President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the Law of Defence against the City and I will just start from this word that was mentioned earlier, which is – responsibility. I would like to commend the minister and his associates precisely on the preparation of this bill of defense against the city, on a constructive approach and on the very preparation of yesterday's, which we had, at a session with you ministers and your associates and afterwards on the Committee on Agriculture, where we could clearly debate all the members of this law. Obviously, someone has not read this law written on only nine pages and has 23 members. In law, all provisions are clearly defined. Someone assigned a complex and very ungrateful job at a certain point, and I say thankless in terms of competence and coverage of the terrain and the restriction of this kind of work. In any case, this bill now defines the absolute organisation of the city's defence system and determines the competences of all the factors in this system. Surely the most competent institution is the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute with its professional and technical capacities at its disposal. In this part, we must all agree to ask anyone on the ground, the peasants whose greatest torment is when he looks helplessly into the sky and when his city destroys in just a few minutes all the year, whose jurisdiction is the city's defence system, they will all look first at the Ministry of Agriculture, and then at the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute. Why? All of us, perhaps the older ones, will have little memory of that system of surveillance, reporting and alarming. Well, that's exactly what this system begins with, and all the organizations by the verticals that are defined by the members of this law lead to the fact that they can clearly cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, because here we have no borders in the sky between municipalities, or between villages, or between cities. I absolutely agree with the applicant of this bill's proposal that there may be some parts of the problem in one segment that will not be solved at the moment because of the transition from one governance structure to another, but this transitional period certainly must be respected and that we are aware that it is better that we have now reacted than that we have been waiting for yet not knowing how long, so that what has not been done in the past 12 years is good that we have now arrived and at this hour to do so. The part relating to the financing of the city's defence is certainly clearly defined and three sources of funding are clearly stated here: the budget, then part of the premium from the insurance of crops and fruits and other sources in accordance with the law. I can't agree that one of my colleagues is saying -- just get out of the budget, give out the budget money, and when the government is struggling to dissipate the budget, and this is exactly the step that has been done here, that in partnership with the insurance companies there is a way that 10% of the amount of the premium paid for the insurance of crops and fruits is returned to the anti-building protection system. In any case, that the level of surfaces provided in the Republic of Serbia is very small, raising awareness and all the incentives that we are giving them now, I hope that the surfaces will be higher in the coming period, and thus the amount of percentages that will be separated for anti-building protection. We also concluded yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture that 5% of renting state land, which is also a significant amount, given the fact that a good part of the assets from renting land could not even be used because of the limitations of the previous time, as it was intended to benefit from the renting of land. But we'll talk about it in more detail when it comes to land law. It is important to point out that local self-government plays a significant role here, in the whole system, and is precisely defined in this law that is mandatory and competent. That's exactly what it says about the part where we do decentralisation, i.e. We don't lose, if I may say so, the level of command, where at the top of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, but at the local level, the local authorities know best who these people can be shooters, and how to arrange the access routes and all that is necessary to the anti-urban stations. Surely, in that part of the financing, when we say, other sources under the law, allow local self-government to finance and improve the system of anti-building protection in various ways, which is permitted by law, and in accordance with the law and in accordance with what is prescribed by the Republic of Hydrometeorological Institute. It will also be significantly repaired and the financial segment of the shooters, which has been unacceptable so far, and is now redefined by this law, where it is said exactly how much the average net profit can be paid for the shooters at the anti-urban stations. Also, the AP Vojvodina in the area of jurisdiction that it has in segments belonging to it is also located in this part of jurisdiction and sure that when we see 40% of the land lease belongs to local self-government, 30% belongs to AP Vojvodina and 30% to the Republic, there will certainly be ways and how this financial effect will be improved and we will get to that amount necessary for adequate anti-building protection. All in all, by protecting crops we protect both property and in any case we protect from the city, and we protect GDP, which is the essence of this law, because the most important and most valuable things we bring in this House are laws that protect constitutional order, that protect this country and that protect its economy. By adopting this law, we will certainly improve anti-building protection, and on the other hand we will also reduce the level of damage caused by urban clouds. I also hope that in the coming period, and I deeply believe in the professional people of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, we will work to improve both system organisations and technical and technological aspects. There will be my pledge in the coming period, not from the budget, but from insurance, that from some other sources we have additional resources so that we can improve the technical and technological system of anti-building protection, to move forward, and that tomorrow we can all reach together to meet the effect and results that are in Europe up to 70% maximum, to say, the overall percentage of protection from the city, because 100% is impossible to protect, given that it is natural and elemental disasters. In any case, the SNS in Voting Day will support this bill. I believe that the law is good, that the law is applicable and that all the provisions of this law and all the members are clearly defined, that everyone has obligations and responsibilities under this law and in the voting day I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29487	The People's Messenger Janko Veselinović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29488	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not disputed, and today I think it has been found, that in heaven, the Holy One, in heaven are thunders, lightning and city, as it is not disputed that there is a government on earth that is responsible and that decides whether to fight the city as organized states fight or fight as before the real creation of the state fought people with fear, and they were called builders. Unfortunately, since we do not have a qualified, high-quality, responsible government, our farmers and fruit farmers remain to turn to heaven and pray to the Most High, even those who do not always believe in it. For three years, Mr. Stefanovic, this government has been in capacity, the government of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, and for three years it has failed to organise a repressive defence and has failed to protect the peasants who live only from their work and what they harvest in the orchards or who sow in the fields. It has happened these days, Minister Stefanovic, we could say tragedy, in two municipalities of Ivanjica, Arij where damage occurred, almost 100% on the crops, on orchards and someone must be responsible for it. It's not possible that we have a state, that we have laws, that we have municipalities, that someone in that system is not responsible. Mr. Stefanovic, we have the Government Act, and we know who has been in charge so far for anti-urban protection. Do you think, Mr. Stefanovic, that this law, which you put in the procedure, will solve the question of the irresponsible government, the disorganized government? No, there was no interference that even under the current laws, no matter how we didn't have a law relating to anti-building protection, that even under the current law your ministry was organising anti-building defenses along with local self-governments. There were no shooters, there was no ammunition against the city, and someone has to answer for it. Like, which should fit for some previous period, but come on, Mr. Stefanovic, let's talk about this law that should prevent this from happening in the future. There are a number of problems, Mr. Stefanovic, which this law does not solve. The first problem here is not who is responsible for the damage that may occur tonight, not under this law, but when it comes into force. You can't see who's the responsible person who gives orders and you can't see who the people who answer are. Are they in the municipalities, are they on the republican level? You can't see, Mr. Stefanovic, what co-operation is between local self-government, the province and the republican level. It is said, therefore, in Article 8 that the Autonomous province is co-operating with the competent authorities of the Republic, to provide support. It is said in Article 9 that local self-government provides support to the competent authority in the engagement of contractors to operate on the mayoral clouds. What kind of support? Is someone coming to the local SNS board and telling me to give me 40 perpetrators who need to fight the city cloud? Well, it's not a solution, Mr. Stefanovic, there are no criteria here in which they will be chosen or elected. Mr. Stefanovic, this is a national interest in resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29489	Time, Mr. Veselinović
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29490	It doesn't matter what movement, which I'm headed for, is called "The Move for PRECRET", needs a serious twist here. We need serious measures to address this situation that we are in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29491	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29492	Let me tell you, most of these things aren't worth answering. During the day, we have said many times, Mr. Vesenović, of course, uses his right to speak as a MP and to express political views, which, of course, with the profession and the serious solutions that we have never heard of, no solution has been mentioned, and you can follow closely, no solution has been mentioned, none. I suppose Mr. Vesenovic also has experience from previous parties in which he was, as they chose shooters for anti-urban protection, we don't do that, but I suppose they chose it by municipal committees, like those who chose in Vojvodina, these funds that were allocated to NGOs. This government doesn't work that way. The government is trying to do this in a serious and responsible way, both in economic and international terms. And this government will continue in a serious and responsible way to protect all state interests and the interests of our citizens. However, of course, every MP has first in whatever way he wants to expose himself. I always love when MPs offer a solution, some MPs and oppositions and authorities have offered a different solution through amendments. We'll make those solutions when they're better and better than our own. Those who only bring out some flat-rate ones simply can't count on the government's serious response, because it's simply that kind of statement that arguments can't even get an argument, because there was no argument at the first moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29493	Mr. Veselinović, on what grounds? (Janko Veselinović, from town: My name is mentioned. You have no right, Mr. Veselinovic. You have no right, the minister was merely answering your questions and bringing them out. No, thank you very much. Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (Zoran Babic, from the place: The mention of the party on three occasions by Mr. Veselinovic, in a very bad context, is pajorative. I seem to have overheard it. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Please consult both the services and Mr. Deputy Secretary. Let me trust you at all risk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29494	Well, Mr. Chairman, we had a double plagiarism just before in Mr. Veselinović's speech. The call to the PRECRET Movement, which seems to me, was first introduced to our political life by Mr Bogoljub Karic in January 2006, and afterwards by Mr and Cedomir Jovanovic. So I don't know which Turnover Movement Mr. Vesenovic is invited to. And as far as I know and how much I've consulted all the registers about forming and political parties and movements, all of which he doesn't have, which is why it takes support from citizens, not something that someone's going to go out for the assembly pay phone and say I'm the president, the media or something else that came up in 2006. On the other hand, and that's less important, of course, what's more important, you see, Mr. Chairman, I only have part of the report here that I'm happy to read on Thursday when we discuss the details of this bill. Since everything was bad from three years ago for Mr. Veselinović and similar to him, it was bad, and I will ask Mr. Veseinović – where was he when the damage hit the city and the storm hit Valjevo on June 25th 2010? The damage from the city and the weather near 500 million dinars. Here, Mr. Maric remembers, so he nods his head. According to the commission's report, the damage was estimated to have occurred from the city and the weather that affected Valjevo and the Valjev region and be careful not to, not one day, three days, 16, 19 June and 21 June. Come on one day that something has failed, but Mr. Vesenovic has failed to save Valjevo for three days. Well, we have the Podunavski district, so we have Cachak, so we have, I will be very happy to remind Mr. Veselinović of all the bad things he's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29495	Thank you. First Aleksandra Jerkov by the Rules of Procedure, then you, Mr. Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that twice there's been an opportunity for you to react to article 107. The Rules of Procedure also in the case of Minister Stefanovic's speech and in the case of Mr Babic's speech, but I will try to explain both of these things in two minutes. First, you should have warned Mr Stefanovic that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not a place where he, like some opposition, will conduct investigations. He's a police minister, and if he has any evidence that criminal acts have been committed somewhere, that someone has managed some assets past the law, let him do his job, and not here in the Assembly Hall to do so. Secondly, it seems to me that you should have warned Mr Babic, who apparently by mentioning plagiarists wanted to offend here the present police minister who himself was accused of plagiarism, and the dignity of the National Assembly must be respected when it comes to other participants in the debate, so you should have told Mr Babic not to mention the word plagiarism in front of Mr Stefanovic because such words do not suit him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29497	I have to tell you, I appreciate your vision, but use it skillfully to place what you want. Please, in that sense, and you didn't have to mention the minister now in this context, but well, as much as Babic did, if he hurt the Rules of Procedure by yours, and I don't think he did, I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure more, but good. I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and your right is yours, and I just needed to distract you. Mr. Vesenović, has the right to reply to Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29498	Thank you. Around the PREKRET Movement, the word "turnover" was used by Nemnjeci and Obrenovici, Karadjordjevici, and mentioned by some politicians in recent history, no one has ever registered anything called – a turnover or a turnover movement. The movement for PRECRET is a registered political organisation and I call on all those whose heart is justice and equality to join it. Regarding what Mr. Stefanovic said and what Mr. Babic said, therefore, Mr. Stefanovic, you had a lot of work to do today. You have not seen that the Turnover Movement, or that I have submitted 13 amendments, has submitted 12 amendments to the Law on Defence against the City and one law concerning the Ministry Act. Please, Mr. Stefanovic, read these amendments carefully. Believe me, I've just been led to fix this law that's basically bad for me. This is a principle debate today. I have pointed out and you have overlooked this, on Article 8, which speaks of the co-operation of the AP Vojvodina and of the 9th co-operation of local self-government with the Republic, where the main problem has arisen. You will see that I have submitted amendments specifically to the responsibility of those who are responsible for the ministry, i.e. in the office, to implement this law, we can talk about criminal provisions when the amendments are discussed. So, please don't let us go down to the day-to-day political topics. Please, if it's possible to stop coming back in 2010, 1992. You've been in power for three years. I don't even want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29499	Thank you. I have to turn you off in the end. I'm sorry, but when you won't respond, when I warn you. I realize you can't always follow the time you have at your disposal, but at least so much when I react, respect that reaction that is well-intentioned. It makes me uncomfortable when I have to turn someone off. Mr. Granny, on what grounds? Mentioning names and last names, and mentioning the party, let's see, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29500	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's interesting that calling on – don't talk about the past. No, don't let us go back in time. Why go back to the past? Why go back to someone else's responsibility? Why go back to the time when someone could establish a system of anti-building protection, and they didn't? Don't remind me of that. The same ones who haven't done anything and held their hands in their pockets for 12 years, in Vojvodina they keep their hands in their pockets for 15 years, in other people's pockets, not in their own. Now he says -- don't remind us of that. Don't let us remind you that in the year 1,06.2010, the storm hit Cacak, knocked down the trees whose diameter was over 30 centimeters, broke the branches, blued the city streets, the damage of hundreds of millions of dinars. On July 6, 2008, the same fellow promoter, this movement was me, a man, who was then in power and did nothing, when the weather followed by the city of the size of hazelnuts and heavy rain caused in the Cacchan region of great damage to agricultural cultures, was almost a hundred percent damage on Friday night in the village of Donja Gorevnica, where fruits and vegetables were almost destroyed. Shall we move on? Farmers of the Danube County suffered damage from a city estimated at around 200 million dinars in 2010. Valjevo, 25.6.2010. damage from the city and weather near 500 million dinars. It's Chuck again, and so on. etc. etc. Do you know how many of these are reports? Because of these reports, because they didn't do anything and because they didn't do anything now they have the right to say when we set up one system, they say – and what is it, you know, can do better? And better yet, why didn't you do it? No, you kept your hands in other people's pockets, and people had damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29501	Mr. Veselinović, you must want a replica again? Really, I don't see why this. There's a debate going on. And you want to do business, you want to do business. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29502	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his team has been ecladly violated by Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which speaks of the speaker at the National Assembly session, are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, in her speech a few minutes ago, colleague Aleksandra Jerkov presented a number of things, qualifications, epithets that had nothing to do with the topic discussed in the National Assembly and apparently that here in this room, but also elsewhere, and how it bothers the effective fight against organised crime, against corruption, and then we have the opportunity to turn here people who are trying to replace it and trying in every way possible, to devast from their own personal or of course, some other party or particular interests of such a kind of struggle that is ultimately the basis of this country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29503	I have to answer. You dropped one just out of your sight, that Alexandera, I don't think I'm defending her, but she had the right to speak on the basis of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Through that explanation, she tried to prove that there were injuries to the Rules of Procedure. She, at one point, jumped out of that context that started, and I warned her and I think we figured it out. Therefore, I personally believe that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. With all due respect, I agree completely. I would be a very happy man if everyone here respected the section – dignity and I think that the chosen words can tell everything both the negative and the positive sides, which I am convinced, because the Serbian language is so rich, but unfortunately, that's the situation for us and I can't do it, I can't change it. So people use their own dictionary as they think they should, in their opinion. That's probably our problem. You don't want to plead, that's how I figured it out? (No) Mr. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29504	I will try not to challenge any further replicas of the Honorable Chairman, so it is not my goal to call that we do not read historical readings, which I would not find in those historical readers some old suit of the party my predecessor belongs to. No, but because it will have no interest in the citizens of Serbia, not in Zrenjanin, nor in Subotica, nor in the surroundings of Backa Topola, Ruma, Srema, in South Serbia, it will not benefit if we return to the 90th year 2000, we live in 2015 and the city destroys our crops and we have on the agenda a law which means, it is bad, and according to some other colleagues from the opposition, it is also bad. Let's try to fix it, don't talk about 2001 and 2002. I don't think we should play the association game, if we say – the party, it's me or the country promoted by Louis 14. - State, that's me. So, everyone in Serbia would know who we mean. So, about that, the party, the suits, and the rest, leave it, it doesn't work out for you and let's stick to the subject and talk about protecting from the city, which the Serbian citizens expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29505	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word; and let Milija Miletic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29506	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who follow this transmission, first of all I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the citizens of the Ivanica municipality today, day 16 of June. June 16. In 1866, Knez Mihailo Obrenovic declared Ivanjic a town. Of course, I also congratulate all the winners of the June Prize and I want success in the further work. Now I'm going back to a very important law, the law of defense against the city. As we have all heard, for over 20 years, we have eagerly expected this law to finally come to the congregation and here it is today. Thank you, dear ministers, for all your efforts, for the efforts of your team and your associates. It is a wish, first of all, of agricultural producers and of all interested, first of all, because the elemental disaster of the city is causing and what great consequences, first of all, and great damage to agricultural products. These damages relate first to agriculture, but not only to agriculture where they are the largest, they relate to forestry but also to housing and economic facilities. Of course, the damage to agriculture has an indirect effect on the food industry. This year, indeed, the municipality of Ivanica suffered very much damage from the city on two occasions, first on May 14th and then on May 19th. The Commission came to the scene and found damage. These damages are over 400 hectares of surface area, and somewhere over 100 acres of damage is estimated to have been 100% damage. These damages include 1,200 households. I have to point out this time that local self-government has acquired 192 missiles, that 30 missiles remain since last year. On May 19, however, 63 missiles were effective. And as we can see, there are potential dangers to that fact these days. And so today the biggest problem in my community is that it just doesn't stop these missiles, it's gone and it's necessary to buy them and deliver them as soon as possible to keep us safe from the city. However, I must refer to this opportunity to the discussions of some MPs who have mentioned my municipality and the neighbouring municipality of Ivanica. Believe me, first of all, as a citizen of this municipality, we do not need such support, we do not need the support of the former regime, which is its responsibility, i.e. irresponsibility and how it pointed to the skin of our citizens. They brought down the simple economy of Ivanjica, forced the college-educated workforce into the raspberries, not to mention that they couldn't afford 20 years of strength or talk about one law that would specifically regulate this area. We believe and are sure that the application of this law will bring more efficiency and that our agricultural producers will be able to look more calmly and securely at the sky where their basic source of income is, because the basic damage in Ivanjica has just been to the raspberries. To say that active measures of defence against the city have been organised in the Republic of Serbia since 1968, in a vegetative period from 15 April to 15 October, as is known to all of them. We all already know the risks, the damages, and we all know that climate conditions and meteorological conditions say that these disasters will be in the future. It is also important that we have a special law that will regulate this important area of defense against the city by law. We've already heard the fact that over the past 10 years, we've had a period of defense against the city of potentially dangerous urban clouds from 100 to 110 days and that it's been true in 50% of these cases. The process itself of artificial modification in the atmosphere can be both effective and reduced if it is timely and applied in the right way. On this occasion, I will try only to point out the basic goals that will be achieved by this law on defense against the city. One, I think it is a very important goal to have a single and comprehensive system in the Republic of Serbia. Why does it matter? Because at all the clouds, the city clouds have no boundaries at all, the human boundaries don't know either spatial or time limits, so if they're working from one local self-government of a territory, that doesn't mean that we're going to remove the consequences just above that territory, but the city cloud is going on. Another important objective of this law is that it claims that we have an integrated approach that will combine active protection measures that involve defence against the city but also passive protection measures, which is insurance. By passive protection measures that are good, we will, of course, remove the financial effects and help farmers in the financial effects. However, what is the aim of this society is to preserve the agricultural product and therefore we will appeal precisely to active protection measures, and of course continue to send an appeal to our farmers to ensure their agricultural products. With this in mind, we have a third objective of this law, which is a very important goal to preserve the agricultural product, to protect the agricultural producer who will thus be able to prepare the crops in good time for next year. What is, in my opinion, the fourth important objective of this law, is that we get this law to have a precise definition of what rights are, what obligations are and what competences are, both the state authorities and the autonomous provinces, but also the units of local self-government. The fifth goal that is very important is that this law and Article 14, in particular, we have a clear definition of how to regulate the financing of defense against the city. This funding, of course, must be stable and sustainable in order to have a real and efficient city defence system on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Another goal I want to draw attention to is that it is very necessary and necessary to follow scientific research, to simply move forward with time and to ask ourselves what are the best methods of defence against the city and the most efficient methods in the Republic of Serbia. A public debate has also been conducted on this law. The public debate also invited units of local self-government, farmers were present, the Association of Farmers, of course, public, scientific institutions. This law will have an effect and, of course, it applies, first of all, to the area of agriculture, to legal and physical persons, but of course to all citizens of our Republic of Serbia. To conclude, every penny invested in the defense of the city returns multiple times. And finally, in the voting day, together with fellow SNS MPs, I will vote and support all three of the laws we are discussing today in principle at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29507	The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic, and then prepare Milanka Jevtović Vukojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29508	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected interior ministers, chief of the Emergency Sector, Mr. Maric, and others from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrlig municipality, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis, and I represent the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Progressive Party MP's club. I will talk about the Law on the Protection of the City, the law that is very necessary and important for our agricultural production, for all our agricultural producers. Serbia ranks in a group of countries with the least effective anti-building protection system. While in the European Union the city's protection system is effective in 50% of the cases, we have 20% of the cases. This has also contributed to the fact that a lot of this area has been undefined, there is no complete divergence between the authorities, the funding system, and one of the reasons is the lack of money in the government register. Serbia is very often exposed to the city's effects due to climate conditions, sometimes taking on the situation of a natural disaster. That's why we've been organizing anti-urban protection since 1968, and it was initially entrusted to the municipality, and then to the SIZs, in co-operation with the RHMZ, in accordance with the old Anti-Build Protection Act of 1973. After the SIZ was abolished and the Anti-Build Protection Act was put out of force in 1992, it took over the RHMZ until the adoption of the 2011 Ministry Act, when these transactions were placed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, or the Emergency Sector. Anti-urban protection funds have so far been disorderly and undersecurely provided. Missiles were acquired at the end of the season. The status of the shooter was not adequately resolved. There was a problem with their funding and way of doping by local self-government. This law unites jurisdiction at the level of the Republic Defence Centre against the city. Funding from several sources provides a greater inflow of funds than insurance in the state register. The responsibility of all participants and citizens shall be regulated. It also provides for a reduction of the agricultural damage, which means less needs for funds in the Republic's budget for damage to the city, which also entails stability in the food industry, which uses raw materials from agriculture. I think it is a particularly good solution to apply a multi-source financing system, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, 10% of the premiums of the seed insurance companies and other sources in accordance with the law. I believe that a very good solution, which is prescribed by insurance companies to up to 10% of the funds collected by payment, premiums and crop and fruit insurance, which have been paid by agricultural holdings by the tenth in the month, for the previous month's budget payment required for the payment of public revenues. From these funds and funds planned by the budget, and in accordance with the Finance Act, all activities related to the organisation and operation of anti-building protection by the competent authority are financed, which is now the MUP, or the Emergency Sector, and will be the RHMZ and the Ministry of Agriculture, I hope, in the coming period, following the vote of this law. Also, the bill provides for shooters to have a level of compensation so that it must be at least 20% of the minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, and we can remember that the shooters had 4,000 dinars so far and one part of the funds provided local self-government. I think this law gives the shooters the opportunity to work and perform their duty as best they can and to have their own compensation for it. In the light of the Law, it is very correct to state the amount of the insurance premium and the amount of 10%. That's 100,000 dinars, according to current indicators. It should be said that these 100 million are, in fact, the assets of the agrarian budget, which account for 40% of the subsidies paid in the name of the protected areas on registered agricultural holdings. The ministry doesn't predict the growth of secured areas, because it still retains a sum of one billion, how much insurance it will incasise, and 40% is 400 million dinars. It's perfectly logical, because the village is poor and has no means of insurance premiums, and the state only refunds after a minimum of one year. At the same time, there are major security problems, so often farmers who are not satisfied with the insurance home are sued and these processes last for more than a year, as could the first years of changing the law. In addition to this 10%, which is equal to 12% of the necessary budget for anti-urban protection, a portion of the promotion premiums in plant production and regression of fuel and fertilisers should be defined. Only those funds should be linked to the purchase of missiles, and everything else should finance a directly regular budget. Since we need about 400 million dinars at the annual level for the consumption of the rocket, another 300 million must be found to catch from subsidies for incentives in agricultural production and fuel and for fertilisers, and about 1.5% of the total subsidy. I'll explain it a little bit. All of our agricultural producers who use subsidies will be, I'm sure, ready to allocate one part of their subsidies from one to 1.5%, which is on average 200 dinars from that subsidy and with these funds, we will have the opportunity to improve and provide funds for anti-building protection, which, again, is very important for our agricultural production and not just for agricultural production, but also for other things throughout Serbia, to repeat ourselves, as we said earlier. The subsidy regulation that should be defined in the Law on Defence of the City should change each year depending on how much funding there will be in the agricultural subsidisation work, which means that these funds together, because we, once again, can say thank you to the Police Minister, Mr Nebojsa, who discussed with us yesterday, where we have made certain remarks, where the Committee on Agriculture is a month ago and we have delivered everything with some remarks to you, where you have almost adopted all these objections. This law is really very good, unlike those things that used to be. Now I'm going to go back to the period when RHMZ was very successful, when he was working properly, and that was until 2002. I have to look back on the period since 2011. As you all know, in 2011, the Ministry Act was transferred from the RHMZ jurisdiction to obtain the MUP, or the Emergency Sector, headed by Mr Predrag Maric, with whom we have been working for several years, because we have always had problems when I was in the municipality of Svrlig and as the president of the municipality. I have to look at, for example, 2011 where the budget for that year provided funds for compensation for workers' work against construction protection, without having been paid regularly, regardless of what the workers worked for 16 or 17 days in one shift, with a working time that was impossible to determine because of the nature of the job, so practically during these shifts, the presence of workers was mandatory 24 hours. It even went to this point that some workers were paid for their earnings, and others were not, or were delayed for a few months. All of this was probably due to abuse at the RHMZ Administration. In fact, the funds for workers' earnings against construction protection are foreseen by the 2011 budget of 580,659.000 dinars, and when there was a change in the organisation under the agreement on the transfer of workers to the MUP, the sum of only 81,820,000 dinars per station was transferred. Also, an interesting position, where funds were provided for paying social contributions to the burden of employers of 103,000 dinars, of 103,056,000 dinars, and only 14.646,000 dinars were transferred. To be even more concrete, according to all the positions relating to the payment of the RHMZ profits, it received 839,868,000 dinars in the 2011 budget, and according to the same paragraphs, the MUP received for the anti-building protection of only 148,904,000 dinars, which is about 17.73% of the total sum. Why is that? The answers to these questions were to be provided by the then-leaders of RHMZ, director Dacic and his finance assistant Plasic, who were close associates with then-minister of agriculture Mr. Sasa Dragin and then Minister of Agriculture, for Ecology Oliver Dulic. There is also a letter from the radar centre workers who delivered this to the State Secretary in the MUP on all these matters. I have this memo and I will deliver it to you, Mr. Minister, so you see if there have been any problems and why these funds have been paid in one way or another. We can say that the city's defence crisis began right between 2007 and 2011, when these executives were at those posts. Regardless of the lack of regulation, due to the well-being of all its inhabitants and agricultural production, many local self-governments participated in the past 2014 with their funds in the financing and procurement of anti-urban missiles. Thus, the Municipality of Svrlig from the 2014 budget allocated a million and 500,000 dinars and acquired 80 rockets for its anti-urban shooters, and in the 2015 budget we allocated a million and 800,000 dinars and 400,000 dinars for the shooters in 2014. That's how we wanted to help the shooters and improve their working conditions. The defense against the city must be carried out in a unique, synchronised and comprehensive manner throughout the territory from the moment of the formation of the city cloud, along its entire path, because it provides the most effective protection. So it's important to have a lot of elements in this protection system, so it takes everyone to function in harmony, which means that it has to communicate with neighbouring countries when the cloud is moving from their territory, and it has to develop a good observation system, because it has to be followed by a city cloud from the moment of formation and it has to work throughout its path, because then it's the best effect. This proposal specifies all activities and obligations in terms of the co-operation and coordination of our bodies, as well as international co-operation, and provides for criminal provisions for legal and natural persons that interfere with the work of shooters and the functioning of anti-urban protection. I'll say this in my own words. The situation on the ground was next. We have an anti-urban station, there's a way to the anti-urban station, at one point the physical or legal person closes that road and no one can get there to get the missiles, or the launch ramps, and then there's a problem. This law now defines all of it. I can truly be pleased as a man who deals with agriculture, who represents the United Peasant Party. I can be satisfied with this law because the law is really in place and I don't think the law was any better before it. Once again, I will fully support both the M.O.P. and everyone who has prepared this bill. As an MP, I will support this law with all my heart, because I am sure that this law will provide us with the opportunity to provide better conditions for both shooters and all workers in the system, and most importantly we will provide security for all our agricultural producers. It's almost harvest time, and we all who do agriculture know that when the city cloud comes, the most dangerous thing is for him to knock out our wheat. For this reason, once again, I will support this law as a representative of the United Peasant Party from the SNS list and give full support to the government of Prime Minister Vukic and all ministers, because I think it is the only way for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29509	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29510	Dear chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, today we have two systemic new laws ahead of us. One of the laws is the Law on Defence against the City, the other is the Law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases, and the third law is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Ministrys, which is directly related to the Law on Defence against the City. I'd only focus on a few of the most significant segments concerning these two system-wide new laws. First of all, I would start with this being certainly a significant step forward in defense and protection against the city for reasons that since 1992 this law has never existed. Look at the wonders, in 2011, the previous government put issues and defences against the city in charge of the MUP, or emergency resort. Of course, that the competent ministry is one fundamental analysis, with the full participation of the Associations of Farmers, MPs, Assembly Committees responsible for Agriculture, with the professional public, with local self-government, after a thorough and detailed debate, roundtables organised in many local self-governments have come under a quality law relating to the Law on Defence against the City. This law is significant from the aspect of the protection of agricultural producers and, not only from the aspect of their protection, because we know that agricultural production is in a direct causal relationship with the food industry, in a direct and consequential relationship with the market, in a direct causal relationship with the price of agricultural products. Namely, the damage suffered by farmers, one inadequate and safe work, as it was by 2011, is certainly huge. This government, as a responsible government, as a government which primarily protects the interests of its citizens, is about protecting agricultural producers, but of course also about protecting all those where the elemental accident has caused damage to material products, cultural goods, has passed a new law. There's been a rumor here that there's too many norms. He can't have too many norms on something that doesn't exist at all. Namely, the Law on Defence against the City has not existed since 1992. When there is no law, then of course there can be no responsibility either, or there is no responsibility for those who have not recognized the very important segment of life of Serbian citizens and have not passed the law. What I want to point out is that the modification of time, or projects relating to the modification of time, is not possible without the consent of the government, because the atmosphere represents a very important eco system and because each individual must be responsible for it. The law is uniquely governed by this area. They are precisely divided into responsibilities, and the way in which they are financed has been established. I would now say only one, two sentences relating to the Law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases, which is significant from the aspect of compliance with international standards, which is significant from the aspect of compliance with the Fire Protection Act, which is significant from the aspect of security, security of the property of the person, which is significant from the aspect of cross-sectoral co-operation, i.e. co-operation between state authorities. Also, this law creates a legal framework for the emergence of new economic operators, in particular economic operators from abroad involved in the construction of modern equipment for the installation of such systems, and otherwise the Law on Defence against the City, and how important it is for the emergence of new operators when it comes to the production of anti-building missiles and other chemical reagenas. The Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29511	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29512	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished Minister Stefanovic and his associates, the Honored Chairman, as a graduate agricultural engineer, I will talk about this law which today is the subject of a debate on the aspect of importance for the agrarian sector. As agricultural production is seriously considered in this country, such a law on defense against the city is necessary and took many years earlier to be passed. The biggest damage to the city occurs in agriculture, and they are irreparable, and by ensuring risk, it is a passive form of protection from the city, partially ekionological damage is mitigated, but many products that, unfortunately, have to be imported have been lost. The territory of the Republic of Serbia, due to its meteorological climate conditions, is exposed to the city, often in proportion to a major elemental disaster. The last 10 years, during the city's defence season, were between 100 and 110 days with radar monitoring, up to 63 days during one season, from 15 April to 15 October. The elemental atmosphere of disaster and the urban cloud are changing spatially and timely, moving and not recognising any human boundaries. As a rule, they strike and move across many larger territories covered by local self-government units. Without this law, the damage to agricultural products was huge, in the wider area of the Republic. Defence from the city should be arranged as defined by law and, more importantly, ensure its application as a whole. The city's defence in Serbia began long ago in 1968 as part of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, RHMZ, as the city's defence sector and successfully improved and progressed as a functional continent across Serbia's territory. The city's defence system was moved to the Ministry of Emergency in 2010, and the RHMZ wanted to resolve the city's defence sector, following an investigation into the damage done by over eight and a half million euros. The funds received from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the purchase of anti-building missiles then-running of the RSMZ has shifted to other purposes. Since they purposelessly spent money from the budget, which was intended for the purchase of anti-building missiles, they wanted to shut down the anti-building defense. In 2010, there were huge damages from the city across Serbia, and there was no adequate defence, due to lack of missiles. Farmers rebelled and more than 10,000 signed a petition to defend the anti-building defence. Representatives from 80 municipalities and Serbian cities then pleaded against shutting down Serbia's anti-building defence. During that period, the plan to reduce the number of workers was to be at the expense of the city's defence sector, which was to be halved. Regardless of the government of the Republic of Serbia's measure of reducing the number of workers in the state administration, RHMZ has immediately received 200 workers from the city's defence sector, who have moved to the MUP, into a permanent employment relationship of 200 new workers. At the expense of the shooters and the aide of the shooters who stayed with them under the agreement, they hired a large number of part-time associates on the contract. Some of them didn't even enter the Bureau, but that's why most of them were members of the Democratic Party. The head of the MUP emergency sector, Predrag Maric, accepted defence from the city. But by investigating this problem, I haven't found that somewhere in the world the defense of the city belongs to the police. In the Croatian state, the city's defence is in charge of hydrometeorological institutions, in Republika Srpska we have a public company Anti-grad defence, in Macedonia the state-run institution of the Hydrometeorological Affairs Authority, and in Bulgaria the executive agency for fighting the city. In Romania, it is within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development, the City Prevention Agency and an increase in rainfall. In most of the countries of moderate geographical width, where defense from the city is being conducted, the most represented and most effective method of preventive action from the urban clouds in order to reduce the damage to the city is by sowing clouds of reagents, anti-urban rockets, where we have 70% efficiency, while the plane-sowing that has 50% is very little used in the world. In 2012, a billion and 800 million dinars were set aside to prevent emergency situations and to obtain missiles and a system of anti-building defence. The Ministry of Finance then directed a billion and 600 million for other purposes, and only 200 million dinars remained for emergency situations, which was insufficient to obtain the required number of missiles. So, starting in 2007, there were fewer missiles on the anti-urban stations, and the damage from the city was getting bigger. The most responsible for the collapse of Serbia's anti-building defence defence is Miroljub Milutinovic, former Assistant Director General of RHMZ and Milan Dacic, former RHMZ Director General, former Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and members of the then republican government. Former president of the Anti-Corruption Council Verica Barac sent a letter to Prime Minister Cvetkovic warning of corruption in the RSMZ and the uncontrolled spending of the city's defence funds, causing damages of eight and a half million euros. The Anti-Corruption Agency and the Public Procurement Administration have asked the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office to launch an investigation into developments in the RSMZ. A major contribution to the destruction of the city's defence has also been made to the lobby of insurance companies and anti-urban missile importers, with the support of a policy that was above the profession and beyond science. Finally, the defence against the city of the Republic of Serbia has such a technique, it has programmes and projects, it has an expert chamber and a thousand 600 anti-building stations, as many shooters and aides, but there are not enough missiles. I believe that the Law of Defence against the city will change many of this image. Serbia's anti-building defence status and funding of the system will be resolved year after year, where it will advance. I would like to look back at the local self-government I come from, which is the town of Leskovac, which includes 144 inhabited places of a total area of 1025 square kilometers. So it's a huge territory that needs to be defended from the city. In all, there are 31 anti-urban stations in the territory of the city. The largest number of stations in Serbia and every year, two shooters were hired at these stations, totaling 62 shooters. With the work of anti-urban stations and anti-urban shooters, the Radar Centre "Kukavica". In the last three years, the town of Leskovac attaches exceptional importance to the work of this service, so that every year it allocates certain financial resources to stimulate the work of the shooters, implements activities at the maintenance and arrangement of the building infrastructure, so that four completely new anti-building stations are built, eight are renovated, and the plan is to renovate eight new stations in the next period. The condition of the other anti-urban stations is solid. In 2015, the town of Leskovac obtained, supplied and donated to the Emergency Sector 100 pieces of anti-urban missiles, worth 3,450 thousand dinars. Certain activities are also planned and will be carried out to protect the shooters themselves by obtaining HTZ equipment, raincoats, boots, as well as to assist in maintaining and functioning the connection system. I will conclude, the application of the Law on Defence against the City will significantly improve the anti-building protection system and specify the competences of the Republic, the province and the local level of administration. The bill also regulates a stable way of financing city defence operations, with precise definition of the role and obligations of local self-government units. Also, an area of international co-operation in the city's defence system has been arranged, since damages from the city often reach the situation of a natural disaster in our country. The adoption of the law will ensure the full efficiency of the anti-building defence system, as well as the necessary monitoring and management of all costs incurred in the functioning of the defence against the city and the establishment of a mode of monitoring the effects of anti-urban protection actions, from the point of view of the frequency of the city, intensity, covers areas of benefits made by the operation of the system and others. Based on everything out of the blue, the SNS Group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29513	The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29514	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we have heard a lot about this law, and I will try to sum up what I should have said, therefore, that because of global warming and definitely due to climate change what we will surely face in the next period are the weather accidents followed by the city, and this will definitely do the greatest damage to agriculture and forestry. In addition to the fact that agriculture will be damaged, our food products will be, because we may in some way compensate for these damages in agriculture itself, but we will be left without these products. So we have already heard that protection in Serbia has been from the city since 1968 and that it has passed various responsibilities, i.e. it has been in various responsibilities, therefore, from a self-government community, so to speak. SIZ's, but what's common is that it's always been in some way essential to RHMZ's jurisdiction. What's definitely strange is why in 2011, it was in the jurisdiction of the MUP, which, all these years ago, was only responsible for the acquisition of anti-grade missiles. If you are talking to farmers or experts in this area, you will definitely hear that in 2011, all the problems related to this area have just begun, which until then, in some way, went the way up. Thus, it is noted that in 2011, as many as four million euros were given for various studies related to anti-building defence and that in this way it was seen to change the way, not to use anti-building missiles, but to do so from air, cloud radiation, and to use anti-building networks. Of course that didn't work out because the farmers rebelled, because this way that was planned to introduce security would have introduced up to only about 50%, unlike the rockets that give 70% of the security. So farmers and experts rebelled against our happiness and, of course, the collapse of this system failed. That same year, when all the money that was directed towards anti-building protection was poured into other purposes, and only 10 to 20% went really to defend against the city, they were in some way warned by the authorities of the Anti-Corruption Agency that money was not intended to be spent and that it went where it was not intended. Of course, none of our opposition colleagues today wondered who was responsible for 2011, when all of the problems caused by the city also occurred in Ivanjica and Arilj. Who was responsible at the time for the lack of anti-urban missile protection? So, from 2007 to 2013, it was only damage to agricultural cultures worth 45m euros. If we know that 10,000 missiles that would defend these crops only require three million euros, we are still wondering why that money was not then provided. Therefore, the adoption of this law will, above all, have the need to bring this area into line with the competences of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government that are primarily responsible for protecting the environment and protecting against natural and other disasters. It should be noted that funding will be provided with more positions, not only from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as has been most so far, but from some units of local self-government. What is significant is that funds will be provided from the part of the crop insurance and compensation for the city's defence. The fact is that local self-government units will provide a small part of it and that will be the maintenance of the launch stations and the engagement of the shooters themselves. So, this area is returning definitely to RHMZ's jurisdiction and withdrawing from the jurisdiction of the MUP, which, note, has so far only acquired rockets. In this jurisdiction, RHMZ has been in place for 44 years and this has proved to be the best option. So, the basic principle of this law is preventive action, preventive protection and overall uniform action, and I want to point out, as someone who comes from Užica, that a month ago, when unfortunately we had that accident and the operation of the city in Ivanjica and Arilj, it even happened from the anti-urban stations around Užica and 15 anti-urban missiles were fired. That's when it was estimated to be enough. Unfortunately, however, it did not turn out that way. But what's very important for citizens to know is that the clouds are moving and that the city clouds reach a much larger space than one local self-government, and that usually when you act on that cloud, you don't stop it from falling on that local self-government, but the next cloud it's coming upon. That is why co-operation between local self-government is very important and that is what this law is about to achieve, which will be crucial, as well as this way of funding system that will ensure sustainability and efficiency. So we hope that this anti-urban protection will return at least to the beginning of the one we had from 2011, to those shifts made by DS and all praise for this bill that we will support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29515	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29516	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I will try not to take up much of your time, at least not more than I planned. Here, I admit, when it comes to the anti-building defense and the imperative that it is arranged systemically, efficiently and sustainablely, with a clear schedule of moves and actions, unlike some of my esteemed colleagues of universal orientation, I would rather place myself without false modesty in those other opposite of the universalist universe proportions and range. I respect that. So my knowledge is limited to two things at most. It is one deep feeling of sadness when I see the destroyed raspberries in western Serbia and their desperate owners, people who are used to all sorts of troubles that, although destroyed at least for this year, are at peace with fate and in wonder – does the Serb peasant in the 21st century have to be dependent on grace and better say the unmercifulness of the sky? He knows well that in orderly societies, the sky is not so far away, nor its wonders are insurmountable, but he knows more precisely that they are predictable, so he is probably asking himself only one thing – why did it have to be this far? So what do we tell them? That highly wise advice to secure crops and all other plantations? Ingenuity, with full ignoring of the fact that our agriculture is not dominated by commodity producers, it is still, unfortunately, to a large extent, a social category. My second dilemma is something more general in nature, and it could be in the shortest symbolic consciousness of that famous sentence – life writes the law, where eternal doubt remains, only seemingly grammatical nature, what is the subject in this sentence and what is the object, and especially how and why has it failed foreshadow? That famous mark of a store whose inaction makes me very ashamed to look you in the eye. What can I tell them why he's so late? Why did it take 20 years to pass a law like this? How can we justify this again with a higher force that is not exactly heavenly in this case? But they're already used to explaining that the most common thing is nature's fault. True, but human nature, which is written thousands of miles of text of different stories and stories. One of them seemed to me best suited for this opportunity, so let me finish with it. Now, this is a story about four people called everyone, somebody, anybody, anybody. So one important job had to be done, and everyone was sure that someone would do it. Anyone could've done it, but nobody did it. Everyone got mad about it because it was someone's job. It ended with everyone accusing someone because no one did what anyone could do. Everyone later thought that such a thing should never happen again. That's why everyone started doing what someone was supposed to do at the same time without anyone realizing it until someone noticed that no one was coordinating with anyone. But everyone resisted coordination, because no one wanted anyone to be superior. That's why we need this law after twenty and a half years, and that's why I'm going to support it with all my heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29517	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word, and let the MP Vlado Babic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29518	Thank you. Dear ministers with guests from the ministry, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today I will talk about the proposal for a law on defence against the city. This law regulates the defence system against the city, the rights and obligations of the authorities of the state administration, the authorities of autonomous provinces, the units of local self-government and the organisation of the city's defence system, the means of financing and supervision of this law. You were respecting your colleagues a moment ago that we didn't do anything. Well, it won't be like that. I'm sorry to see such an impressively beautiful hall again, but empty. But, my God, I'll explain some things to them. To begin with, we've detected the problem. They detected, singled out, had public listening, there were scientific workers, there were people from local self-government, units of local self-government, so everyone. We've passed a good law, and he's gonna help us make sure the monster that happened 20 days ago and that happened this year never happens again. Unfortunately, or fortunately, we're in a geographical climate that has a climate, which is continental and therefore pulls away, I'd say, often the appearances of urban clouds. This happens about April, and this will solve all of our citizens' problems from April 15th to October 15th. What's going on? For example, the city’s defence system primarily includes a set of measures and actions for planning and financing, organising and implementing methodological tasks related to radar detection and monitoring of stormy urban clouds, establishing the degree of urban and sowing of them. What does that mean? This means that now with the help of rockets that were once gone, and now thank God there are 25 to 30 thousand missiles, for which the government has allocated in a budget of 350,000 dinars and for the salaries of gunmen another 250,000, so right now about 600 million dinars, there will be more. This is a good law, we need to make peace with the fact that nothing was done in 1992, please imagine, the law was out of force, I don't understand it very much, but well, colleagues have slowly shown how much they don't know, how much they haven't been able to pass a law that will be better for this country. What I would like to say in short is that the entities of the city's defence system are the authorities of the state administration, the authorities of local self-government as well as the authorities of the autonomous provinces, the government, on a proposal from the authorities of the state administration responsible for the city's defence affairs, adopts long-term programmes and plans, then mid-term and adopts a regular emergency report. We have seen how flexible the minister is with his associates when he immediately accepts the amendment concerning him, moving the deadline from April 15 to April 1st. Thank you, for speed, for understanding. What to say is, this is an excellent law thanks to the speed and wit of these wonderful people sitting here right now, unlike some who are gone. We'll only have a improvement, no more city clouds and no more damage caused by inconsistencies. There's just one more thing I'd like to say, how is it that all of a sudden comes into M.O.P.'s intelligence is what's supposed to be in the hydrometerology office? Here, we put it back and we expect a better one. Thank you for your attention and of course the SNS will vote for this excellent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29519	Thank you. The word is Dr Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29520	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed Mr. Minister with his associates, esteemed co-workers and colleagues, I would ask the question of what principle and how does it work and how is the defense of the city based on what method? The defense against the city is based on the method of benefit and competition, and this is done by introducing a chemical agent of silver and adids, a number of clouds go missing by burning the artificial core of the restallization, and then obtaining grains that are less than 2.15 times the shape. If the cloud whose grain is then one centimetre in diameter to the ground is raining, if the cloud is two centimetres in diameter, then it can rain and cobbles or the city. Every city cloud has its phases. When it is ideal and possible to artificially influence, i.e. by entering a reagent, to prevent and prevent the city from falling to the ground, which is why it is important to simple and solidly regulate the defence, because the action above a specific area is not normally possible to protect this area but to protect the neighbourhood where the cloud is about to come, and I will talk about it later on about Sombor Municipality. The anti-urban protection law was abolished in 1992, on a proposal from the government of Radovan Bozovic, with one explanation that it is anakton and should be brought in a more modern form. The organisation of RHMZ defenses against the city was from 1967 to 2011 when there were anti-building protections crossing into the MUP, moving to the Emergency Sector, crossing employees, equipment, radar centres, while shooters and anti-urban stations remain in the RHZM, but this does not carry the lack and insufficient amount of anti-urban missiles that have led to restrictive budgetary financing already increased in recent years, the protection being carried out by most half of the methodological, necessary rockets. As for the Law on Defence against the City, we know that the insurance company pays ten percent, but there are more modes to increase the funds, and that the budget is disbursed in this way. One thing that has already been mentioned is legislation, the Law on Encouragement in Agriculture and Rural Development, and the other is in any case that only one euro is allocated to each municipality of parcels, i.e. from a land taken on lease. There are hundreds of thousands of hectares in the Sombor municipality. So that's 100,000 euros, so you can take the rockets and save the property. As far as the budget is concerned. In the 2015 budget, RHMZ had the funds in general, that 80 million dinars would be granted for this purpose only on 14 May 2015, with 135 million in 2014, which is significant. The difference is significant. It should be noted that the marksman's fee is now two thousand 400 dinars. And in 2009 until 2014 he was four thousand dinars. Accordingly planned from a fee of 1,612 anti-grader stations is now active only 1,361. I'd like to say a few words about my town of Somboro from which I come. The town of Sombor extends to 17 catastrian settlements of 117 thousand 722 hectares. Out of the total area of the territory of Sombora, 91% or 156 hectares, agricultural land represents a significant potential for intensive agricultural production, which includes the order of catastrian municipalities with the largest territorial, in the current province of Vojvodina. Due to the large area under agricultural land and unstable weather conditions, especially frequent urban rains, the need to engage in anti-urban defence is high. The engagement of equipment and logistics provides RHMZ, and the radar centre is located in Baja. The Radar centre in Baša performed its rockets twice during June, and for the purpose of the city of Sombora, 22 anti-grader stations with 44 firemen are currently active with me, with a insufficient number of missiles, about 12 per crop protection station. The contract with anti-urban shooters, according to information from the Baša radar centre, was signed between 15 May and 15 October. During the season of 2015, anti-building protection in the city of Sombora was effective on 9 June with 16 rockets fired and on 10 June with 27 rockets fired. The appearance of the city was recorded on June 9th in the district of Nenadić-Nosdan, where the cloud that came at the time was 16 km thick. and a length of 12 km. After the rockets were fired he was divided into three parts so no major material damage was caused. In order to increase the efficiency of the motivation of the shooters, the town of Sombor took part in the equipment of anti-building stations and shooters with equipment, so rocket launchers, motoroles batteries, etc. were purchased. We said that 2400 dinars per shooter who received in the entire region of Serbia, and in the season 2014, to co-finance the involvement of anti-urban shooters, Sombor has provided three million dinars, according to a draft Defence Act from the city, Article 9 and 15, which provides that authorities and units of local self-government within their responsibilities in the area of defence against the city of local self-government are financed by local self-governments and related to the Somboro city budget for 2015 at the position of the anti-urban protection budget, providing funding of 3.5 million dinars intended for the engagement of anti-urban shooters. This could be a big incentive for other local self-governments to do the same. Public procurement from the city of Sombor in 2014, purchased 50 anti-building missiles that were delivered to the building stations and another 50 that were on the lager in Trajalhem Kruševac, which proved to be the most efficient, from which they were purchased and ready for delivery for 2015, the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development planned to supply around 100 million dinars for the purchase of about 100 anti-building missiles. I would only say one more sentence, the proposed legal solution against construction protection, returns to the professions, meaning in the RHMZ which only has the relevant professional frame, and a unique world solution would be in the occupancy of the MUP, but the control of the defence against the city would have the Ministry of Agriculture, which is logical, since the city defence system was designed and built to protect agricultural crops and fruits. In voting day, me and the SNS will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-16-0.u29521	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Since Mrs. Todorovic is not in the O.R., Mrs. Papuga, Aleksandar Senic is not here. Mr. Martinovic, will you speak? No, I don't. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. - Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and 3 of the agenda. Thank you. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
