ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the seventh session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 135 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from attending the next MPs, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Olgica Batic and Branko Ružic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because of the need for the Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Also, a delay in the start of the session was due to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn the draft law on defence against the city by letter of 11 May 2015, which was proposed to be considered as the first item of the session's agenda. Logs of the Third and Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2015. Since today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the next sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those Rules to that Committee. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote The minutes of the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held 2, 7, 8, 9, and 15 April 2015. I conclude the vote and declare - for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 20 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 16 and 17 April 2015. I conclude the vote and declare - for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 22 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session is contained. I remind you once again that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn by letter of 11 May 2015 from the assembly procedure a bill on defence against the city. Also, by letter dated 12 May 2015, the government withdrew from the assembly procedure a bill on textbooks proposed to be considered as the 2nd point of the senica agenda. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015 following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 161 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Simplification of Trade in Goods, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May. 2015. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'm asking the service to see if I've read page 10. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May. 2015. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 May. 2015. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the decision to establish the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 May. 2015. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 25 of the total of 168 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, which were submitted to the National Assembly on 21 April 2015. Do any of the MPs want to explain this proposal? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27989	At the end of last year, the Serbian government gave a proposal for a Law on Planning and Construction, amendments adopted, but then we all agreed that this was not a good enough solution for what Serbia needs at the moment. In a discussion with the minister, Mr Pavicevic and I have made a promise that in the next three months we will prepare a new draft of the Law on Planning and Construction, which should be on one full and deep and by vertical and horizontal basis to bring this area into order and give a solution that will be sustainable for a long period of time and meet Serbia's current needs. That's what we did, with the help of Marjan Krestic, our expert on the area. We gave the bill at the end of March this year. He has already been offered several times to fellow MPs to decide whether he will be included in the agenda, but that has not happened. I urge you today to do this effort, to vote yes and to pass that law through the debate in our Parliament, and whether it will be adopted or not, whether it is good or bad, we can determine that through the debate itself. We're confident it's a good solution. It has already received some positive comments both from the profession and from those who build and from those who oversee construction and from those who are in charge of monitoring the whole process and we think it would be useful for Serbia to have this law on the agenda of parliament. By bad practice, no one who has anything to do with this matter has spoken to this law, above all I mean the state authorities, not the competent ministry, not the government in general, not the competent committees in this House, so I can conclude that this is a classic rejection of the bill, without entering into the essence, for one reason only – because it comes from the left side of the table it presides from, and that means from the opposition. I think it's a bad practice and that practice should change. If our bill is bad, you should say what's wrong with it, if there's anything that can be fixed, but it's definitely a good bill and I'm appealing to you once again to vote yes and to put it on the agenda today's sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27990	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – two abstentions – there is no vote of 152 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27991	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that Minister Verbic is here, too, to hear once again that we, the MPs of the New Party, are still on the 26th of September 2014, respected gentlemen, in the assembly procedure we have sent a proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, which provides for a special point in the Law on Higher Education, which provides that academic integrity, gentlemen, becomes one of the basic principles of the system of higher education in our country. Our proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, Mr Verbic, is a reaction to the flood of plagiarities we faced almost exactly a year ago and we felt that plagiarism as the most severe violation of the principle of academic integrity deserves a reaction from the state institutions of our republic, respected gentlemen and academic community. The state institutions' reaction is missing. There was also a reaction from the academic community. That is why, Minister Verbic, we have received one heavy criticism from the European Parliament, which in the Resolution on Serbia wrote at one point, and this is the latest resolution, that the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia and that the academic community in Serbia have failed to respond to serious violations of the principles of academic integrity. I think it would be responsible for the actions of the MPs here, above all, for both Minister Verbic and National Assembly President, to now achieve one consensus here that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education is placed as one point of the agenda of today's session. I think, gentlemen, that we have a special occasion for this, and he is one point in education, which is what Minister Verbic is supposed to talk about here today, and that's the point that referred to the draft law on textbooks, pointedly withdrawn yesterday from the agenda. At the Education Committee, the minister announced that he was withdrawing the bill, which was brand-new, without any explanation, gentlemen. If this bill has been withdrawn, here, we have prepared a bill to supplement the Law on Higher Education, to make one principle of academic integrity legally recognized as one of the basic principles on which the system of higher education rests and in our country, gentlemen, respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27992	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Do the MPs, the promoters, want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27993	I very rarely get up when I speak in this House, but this subject is, by its tragedy and greatness, such that it is necessary to get up when it comes to the tragedy that is due to the genocide of the Armenians that was done at the beginning of the last century. In accordance with Article 99(1), point (7) is replaced by the following: The Constitution of Serbia and Article 8(1) The Law on the National Assembly, MP Pavicevic and I put forward a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. 20 days ago it was a 100-year-old girl from the beginning of that genocide. That genocide has been condemned in many countries. More than 30 countries, both on the one hand and on the other, have condemned the political options present today in global politics. There is also a condemnation of some American states, the federal states of the United States, France, Russia, Greece, many other states that point to the absolute fact that a large, first-recorded genocide was carried out in the period indicated, which does not mean that there were no similar acts in the history of humanity. Nearly half of one nation was killed during that period, and this is a very important matter for the people of Serbia, with the Serbian people, for other citizens of Serbia, for other nationalities. Why? Because in the immediate past over the past 70 years, and intensively 20 years ago, we have had many examples of major war crimes that some Serbian citizens have done more seriously on behalf of the Serbian state, and on the other hand, many Serbian citizens have been victims of major crimes committed to us, according to the people, towards the citizens, according to the civilization in which we live today. It is therefore very important that the state of Serbia be part of that group of states, I can say, of a better part of the world that is aware of what has been happening, that has both the will and the strength and the cheek to point out some disgusting, difficult things that cannot be repeated and that we honor these people who have been victims of genocide, but also to prevent in this way any possibility of repeating anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27994	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27995	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have proposed to the National Assembly that amendments and additions of the Information and Media Act be included in today's agenda. Namely, what it's about. About a year ago, a little over six months ago, a Law on Information and Media was passed, which had a very heated debate here in the Assembly on adoption, especially in the media centralisation work, especially on public services. What is very important and what is the witnesses of all those living south of Sava and Danube, it is the shutting down of the media, to them in particular, the shutting down of local media, public service until July 1st of this year. What I want through this proposal, by amending the Law on Information and Media and by proposing to amend the Law on Public Media Services, I want us to achieve, all together, with the deep conviction that you will accept this amendment of the law, is that Serbian citizens have the same obligations and the same rights when it comes to public information. What's this about? Since July 1st, local self-government will no longer be able to finance local public services and we will only have RTS, with its two channels, RTS 1 and RTS 2, we will have RTV as regional, i.e. The province's public service, and citizens under Sava and Danube, where more than half of the territory, where half of the population of the Republic of Serbia will not have that possibility. He'll have the law, but only as a possibility of additional funding from the city budget. What I insist on, and I hope you will support, is that according to the reputation of RTV and RTS, regional public services are funded, so that citizens have the same rights to information, i.e. the availability of regional public services. It's not just a matter of local information, we have to take care of minorities. Minorities should also have their own representation, such as those of the national minorities living under Sava and Danube, that they should be able to pay the fees that we all pay, currently until 2017 from the Republic budget, and after 2017 as a monthly subscription, to have the same rights in the use of these frequencies intended for public services. I hope you will support this proposal, referring to your fellow citizens who will remain from July 1st...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27996	Time, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27997	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear citizens, I will continue the story, since these two laws are bound. So what's going to happen since July 1st is that the people of Vojvodina will have the possibility of local public information on those topics that are current and which are important to the citizens of Vojvodina, and that's totally fine. The citizens of Belgrade will have the possibility of informing through RTS, because we have witnessed that 70%, perhaps even 80% of the public service and public information programmes refer to Belgrade, for the simple reason that in this country everything that is important in Belgrade is going on, so that the rest of the environments and have nothing so important for now, and the citizens south of Sava and Danube will not have the opportunity to subscribe to the cost of TV, i.e. Right now from the budget, they can finance their local information. It is nice to know whether the tram goes in a circle of two, whether there is water in Mirieva, but what is particularly interested in the citizens of Nis, here I appeal to the MPs from Nis to support this proposal, is whether there is a bus line of ice rock – Nisca spa, whether there is water or no water in Palilula, whether there is still a flood of the northern industrial zone and villages around it. That's what we're interested in, and we're gonna lose it on July 1st, that kind of information. What we can, which the law gives, to double pay, to make citizens understand me, additionally, projectally to finance some of the media that are privately owned, so that we can have a degree of information. There we are, as I say, the citizens of the second row and I want to make it right. I hope that the MPs will represent the interests of their fellow citizens and that they will vote to amend this law, so that we can under Sava and Danube have the same thing that citizens in Belgrade and citizens in Vojvodina have, and I say that it should, according to the same model of funding as Vojvodina, it is that 70% of the funds remain from the RT subscription, I gave it an initial name, "Serb Serbia", and 30% of it goes towards financing RTS, as the central public service of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you will support this proposal, because by supporting the proposal, you are protecting the interests of your citizens that on the basis of the subscription they have the opportunity as they have in Belgrade and Vojvodina, the possibility of informing about the local issues that are important to them in life. Look at you Serbian citizens, my dear friends, I hope we will listen to those people and work in their interest, who have suggested us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27998	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u27999	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this is the fifth time that a proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act is on the agenda and I hope this time at least the fellow medics will support this law, because we all swear, and we took the Hippocrates' oath when we finished our studies, that they will support what is for the benefit of patients, in this case, the RFZO insurance company. Namely, what's this about? The Republic Health Insurance Fund under the Health Insurance Act in Article 41 is very restrictive as regards the financing of the dental health care of RFZO, i.e. Serbian citizens who have health insurance and are entitled to dental care by citizens up to 18 years old, those who study up to 26 years old, pregnant women and certain vulnerabilities, i.e. certain specific diseases, while all other citizens, and there are over 4.5 million who regularly pay contributions to health insurance, do not have the possibility that, as once they have the opportunity to fix and treat teeth through the RFO, to make people understand me, using a health book. What I have suggested is that this change be made and that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are RSO insurance companies get that right again so that they can go with the booklet to the dentist and fix their teeth. Especially at the time of this economic crisis, when people don't have enough resources to go to a private dentist. I think we should support this proposal, for a simple reason, because we have one plus in the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. In the position of dentistry, there are 350 and a few million dinars, which is quite enough to finance the dental material needed to repair and treat teeth. There is no need to increase personnel in dentistry, in contracted health institutions, so there is only a need for your goodwill, for your support, and above all I appeal to doctors, from whatever parties they were, to support this bill, in order to allow Serbian citizens to get free dental repairs, i.e. repair via the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Em, the people are poor, look at your places, half of them are "stretches", as people say. Let's help people get the rights they once had. It depends only on your goodwill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28000	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented -- the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Does the MP want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28001	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I will still try today to make arguments that would right all those citizens who have been threatened by green interest and the rackets carried out by banks in Serbia as anywhere in the world. By this law and by these three laws, we have tried to protect the citizens who are in charge of the banks under these green interest rates and who cannot repay those loans. They were to be on the balcony of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. Their representatives have made a request to be here, to listen and to see if you will support the bill. However, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not allow them to be at the gallery today, although it allowed them to be citizens at the gallery who supported the Law on "Belgrade on Water", i.e. a drug specialis. Unfortunately, today, instead of at the National Assembly gallery, these citizens will find themselves in the streets of Belgrade, protesting and asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to protect them from the green interest that led them to the beggar stick and which will lead them to lose their roof over their heads. I'm also going to give an example of the citizens who are in charge this time. Here, in 2008, a fellow resident from Novi Sad took a 45,000-euro loan. She has paid back 25,000 euros in these seven years, and now she owes 50,000 euros. So she took a 40,000-euro loan, paid back 25,000 euros, and now owes 50,000 euros. Mr. Verbich, I hope you understand this. At that time, her war was 16,000 dinars, and today her war is 50,000 dinars. Then she needed half her salary for the war, and now she needs two and a half salaries. Dear People's MPs, bear in mind that 100,000 citizens in Serbia are on the verge of existence, that they will be left without apartments and, worst of all, will be left with no means to exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28002	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28003	I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28004	MP, no request for presence in the work of parliament has been rejected from my side. None of them have been rejected. So don't keep misinforming the public. It's a very bad manner of one of the MPs. There's no need for that. No one is limited, for now, of course. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28005	The president of the Effective Association last week informed me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, more specifically you, the president, had been asked to attend the beginning of this session at the gallery and to listen to the interpretation of the laws I had filed. I was informed yesterday that they did not receive your permission to attend the session. I will continue to explain this law. So another Belgrade citizen took a 43,000-euro loan in 2008. Let's say "nn" citizen, and then I'll tell you the faces you know well. So he took a 43,000-euro loan, his war in 2008 was 20,000 dinars, and now his war is 45,000 dinars. He paid 20,000 euros back, and now owes 60,000 euros. So he took a 43,000-euro loan, paid back 20,000 euros, and now owes 63,000 euros. Then his war was 20,000 dinars, and now his war is 45,000 dinars. That citizen won't repay that loan for his life. You probably don't know these citizens, but you certainly know our distinguished actor, father of five, Nebojsa Dugalic, who took credit in Swiss francs and decided a month ago to move to Canada because he can't afford to pay, not only to pay back the loan, he can't even buy milk for the kids. All because the National Bank of Serbia, instead of protecting Serbian citizens from green interest and due to the rackets the banks have, is protecting its officials from responsibility, as the Constitutional Court has found these days. You probably heard and probably know the actors Slobodana Micalović and Vojin Cetkovic. These days they decided to tell the public about their fate. They took the same loan and tried to settle their housing issues. They are among the 100,000 Serbian citizens in a similar position. They said that the excitement they felt after solving the housing issue was very soon silenced, as the war grew higher because of the increasing interest. Today, both work hard to settle the bank's wars and provide existence to their five-year-old twins. Every fee from the new roles of Freedom and the Army is paid to the banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28006	Time, MP. Thank you. I repeat again that no one has been refused to attend the session of parliament. Please go to the Secretary-General, MP Veselinović, and see why the Secretary-General has not informed about it or has. That's your real address. The president of parliament does not inform citizens of previous consent, and the General Secretariat gives consent. You've been in Parliament for a long time, and you know the procedure, and the easiest thing to do is attack me. I understand completely. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 155 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a law on special conditions and how the obligations of the resident credits user with the currency clause in the Swiss francs are met. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28007	Probably NN citizens from Novi Sad and NN from Belgrade, who are among the 100,000 citizens who have taken these loans and who will remain on the street, you do not know, but you certainly know actress Slobodana Micalovic, who played, behold, miracles, in the series "Family Treasure", in the series "The Wound Eagle", "My Cousin from the Village", you probably know her. She says: “We literally give everything we earn to the bank immediately, mildly speaking, we don’t know how to tear ourselves apart. ” We have been offered models to solve the problems offered by the National Bank, Governor of the National Bank of Ms. Tabakovic, says: "We have been offered models of solutions for the loan problems we have since 2007, which is growing every day, but no model is good. We're squirming, we're working and we're paying the wars, and we can't plan the future in these circumstances. It's terrible, and it's hard to tell. “ These actors pay 120,000 a month for their loans. Do you think actors make that much money so they can pay 120 grand for a roof over their heads? And worst of all, these 100,000 citizens weren't people who had cash and money to buy an apartment, and they didn't get it from the state, not even in 1999 during the bombing of the apartments. So these are citizens who wanted to earn money from their salary and repay the loan. However, the banks made them such contracts. The People's Bank was supposed to protect them, but it wasn't, which she put them into debt slavery, and for her life, she's not gonna pay back those loans, and she's gonna come back, if she had the money, twice as much credit as they took. I ask the MPs to understand that these citizens are not protesting in the streets, that these citizens do not suffer mental pain because they are day to day in debt hell and understand what it is and do not turn their heads from this problem. If this problem is not resolved, unless the National Bank and the Government of Serbia who do not have the will to resolve this, this problem will escalate. Let's not let this problem escalate. First of all, I urge the MPs sitting here in the Assembly to vote in favour of a bill that would allow these citizens to repay the fair credit they took, not the credit the bank made to them as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28008	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs, of the 176 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a law on freedom of fear. National MP Borislav Stefanovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 165 MPs, of the 177 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. People's MP Gordana Komic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP proposed that the agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28009	Thank you, Madam President. For the seventh or eighth time, I have asked the ruling coalition's MPs to support at least amending this law on the agenda, and then to discuss it later and whether they can support it being passed. The law I propose is very short, there are only two members, of which the second member speaks of entry into force, and the first member suggests that Article 108. The criminal code is amended in such a way that the list of crimes that do not go out of date also includes the crime of stealing and trafficking in human beings, i.e. those famous cases of missing babies. It's a problem that probably people who don't deal with it don't recognize as an important problem. But only when you're on your way to matter a little bit, do you see how much the family that terrible thing really happened to is. The first baby theft was reported in 1959. Although some may think that these are things that don't happen anymore, it's not true, in many families and now it happens. Otherwise, our fellow citizen Zorica Jovanovic received a verdict against the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights, and on that occasion, the Republic of Serbia was ordered to adopt a law that would regulate this issue, which would prevent baby theft from becoming obsolete. These deadlines have obviously expired since 2013 in 2015. The government of the Republic of Serbia has announced that no working group is even set up to start making the law. In addition to the fact that this field has not been regulated legally, a major problem lies in the area of sublegal acts. Namely, the Ministry of Health has not yet adopted the protocol of what happens to children who really die in the hospital after birth and it actually opens up a huge space for machinations, because the largest number of babies disappears precisely from birth to moment until the child gets a unique home number of citizens and that is the period in which parents cannot cope. I no longer know how to ask MPs of the ruling coalition to adopt this bill. What's tragic is that they've never explained in any word why they won't vote for it, and I can only ask them not only to vote when they hear the bells, but when they think that some law is such that they should adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28010	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs, of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Gojkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft law on textbooks, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, the Proposal for a Law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents on acquired education and scientific names and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education and on professional, academic and scientific names. Once again, I remind you that the government has withdrawn the draft law on textbooks from the procedure and the statement on the motion to merge the debate does not cover this bill. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – 11 abstentions – there are no, there are no 28 MPs, of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and to supplement the proposed agenda on a proposal to merge the debate, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – seven abstentions – there are no, no 29 MPs, of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I ask the National Assembly's service to make up a consolidated text of the session's established agenda and deliver it to the MPs. We're going to work on a set agenda. 1st Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design. 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents on acquired education and scientific names. 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education and on professional, academic and scientific names. 4. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association pursuant to Article 90(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session by Dr Srdjan Verbić, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Zoran Lužanin, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Zoran Dragojevic, from the Institute of Intellectual Property. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law following amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual recognition of the equivalence of public documents on acquired education and scientific names and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education and on professional academic and scientific names. Does the proposalor's representative, minister of education, science and technological development, Dr Srdjan Verbic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28011	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, is before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, which was passed in 2009 and for which it is necessary to obtain its amendments and additions in order to resolve certain ambiguities that we had in that law and to comply with European legislation. The proposed changes and additions move in several basic directions. First, unclear and insufficiently precise formulations are being clarified, which have led to some confusion in practice during the application of the applicable law. In this respect, it is precisely determined what makes the scope of industrial design rights, the duration of protection of industrial design, is more clearly defined by the legal institute of public availability of industrial design, etc. The second direction is to make significant changes in the work that regulates civil rights protection of industrial design through these changes and complements, thus achieving more effective protection of industrial design in the court process. The third direction refers to respecting the recommendations received from the European Commission after screening for the negotiating group on intellectual property law, which fully complies with the relevant EU rules and with the European Parliament and Council Directive on the legal protection of design from 1998 and the European Parliament and Council Directive on the implementation of the 2004 intellectual property rights. Now I'm going to tell you what are the most significant amendments to the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design. First, it is precisely defined when industrial design is thought to have become available to the public. It has also been specified that from the date of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to EU membership, the concept of public will be extended to business circles located in the territory of the EU or European economic space. Secondly, it is precisely established that the right to industrial design is obtained by enrolling in the industrial design register, as well as that protection can be extended for periods of five years, with the longest period of 25 years. The third of these most important changes is the scope of industrial design rights which this proposal established in a way that, that the right holder has exclusive monopoly rights on industrial design which is registered in his name and that his exclusive right extends to any other design that is significantly similar to his design. Fourthly, the rights contained and the restriction of rights to industrial design are set out in this proposal so that they taxively list the actions that the rightholder on industrial design cannot collect to third parties and these are actions made for private and non-commercial purposes as well as those made for experimental purposes, as well as actions done for the purpose of teaching and quoting. The above-quoted restrictions on industrial design rights will only apply provided that they comply with the practice of fair competition and that they do not unduly endanger normal use of industrial design as well as that it is indicated where industrial design was taken from. In relation to the applicable law, the right to industrial design has been regulated with other features of distinction, tipographic signs and unregistered industrial design, as well as the application of rules governing civil legal liability or unfair competition. The sixth of these most important changes would be that advertising for zero industrial design is also possible compared to that industrial design that is no longer relevant. The advertising process for zero industrial design is being initiated because the conditions prescribed by law, such as that industrial design was not new or did not possess an individual character, were not met at the time of registration of industrial design. If the industrial design that was in force and which was an obstacle to the registration of another industrial design in the meantime ceases to be valid, it will not pose a disturbance to the cancellation of the existing industrial design. The only thing that matters is that at the time of the application for protection of industrial design, an identical design is valid. The last one on this list of most important changes is the establishment of a more efficient civil legal protection system for industrial design, which is on the line to achieve full compliance with EU rules in this area. The aim is to make the existing system of protection of industrial design more efficient and effective but also to remove certain ambiguities and thus facilitate judicial application of the rights in the proceedings for damage to industrial design. The most important, changes and additions to the work governing the civil legal protection of industrial design concern further precision of the claims on a clearer and methodologically more transparent regulation of provisional measures and measures to provide evidence as well as the introduction of an audit. We believe that the proposed legislative solutions will have a positive impact both on all entities, natural and legal persons, who have an interest in protecting industrial design and on all bodies in charge of law enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28012	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Anamaria Vicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28013	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, we have before us very important laws for which SVM parliamentary groups will, of course, vote for the day to vote. I would just like to take a very short look at two agreements on mutual recognition of the equivalence of public documents on completed education that will be signed, in fact, signed and accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Government of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Macedonia. These two agreements are important because the fact that we are now accepting it is important because these two agreements have been in the process for a very long time. Namely, the Russian Federation launched another 2010 and in 2009 respectively, and Macedonia launched the signing of this agreement in 2010. I would just like to point out that, when it was said here in the Assembly on the Law on Higher Education and on the recognition of diplomas acquired abroad, higher-school diplomas acquired abroad, then it was also said about the establishment of the ENIC or NARIC Centre and this was to happen in April of this year, however, it will only start working in October, although the ENIC/NARIC centre was launched in April and the ENIC/NARIC centre was established. The question that is asked automatically when it comes to these two agreements is whether nostration or the equivalence of diplomats after signing these agreements will be faster and simpler in the case where there is already this mutual, mutual recognition, or the Agreement on Mutual Recognition, because in that case, it may also need to be considered that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should also launch an initiative in some cases towards countries that are in the environment, which are neighbours of the Republic of Serbia, in which countries very often our fellow citizens receive high school diplomas, i.e. end education. That is why, as we have already mentioned on several occasions, the SVM parliamentary group and the SVM party are in a very broad sense thinking in this direction, i.e. supporting all initiatives and all actions that create better conditions for life in Serbia, in order to keep our citizens in our country, i.e. to keep citizens who have gone to foreign countries or to study, or for employment, to return to Serbia. That is why, too, possible thinking in that direction, mutual recognition with countries in the environment would also be of great importance. Once again, just to confirm that the SVM parliamentary group will confirm in the voting day, or vote in favour of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28014	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28015	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, honourable Minister Verbic, guest from the ministry, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I am truly surprised that he did not use his presence at this session, Minister Verbic, to inform our MPs and the Serbian public about the reasons for the withdrawal of the Law on textbooks from the agenda, a law so pompously announced as a law that will solve all the problems in the areas of textbooks that are basic tools, a tool for education in primary and secondary schools. In recent weeks, on all the media, especially electronically, were the closest associates of Mr. Verbic, who incredibly praised this law and indeed for me a surprise, not to say I was baffled, that something like this happened to withdraw the law. Otherwise, the agenda was very well composed, noting that this point on the legal protection of industrial design, although it is very important, since it includes some EU directives, contributions to our accession process, are from the domain of education and partial science, but again I am surprised by something, a complete opening presentation, Minister Verbic dedicated it to design, not a word about confirming the Agreement so-called. Nostrification of diplomas, calling with the Republic of Macedonia and the Russian Federation. A colleague from another assembly group pointed to that, and I'll talk about it a little later. I think MPs and Serbian public, Serbian citizens, deserve explanations why something so pompously announced, boasts, suddenly less than 24 hours before the session is withdrawn from the agenda? I mean, I'm sure, I'm sure it's not the way to communicate with us and with the citizens, the ministry's statement. I see in that statement...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28016	Ambassador, I don't mind, but please move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28017	I'm sticking to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28018	Yeah, the agenda we adopted, the kind of parliament he adopted. The previous letter held discussions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28019	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28020	I'm sorry, I have to intervene. If you are prepared for a law that is not on the agenda today, save it for a few weeks later. I'm just asking you about...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28021	You're right, here's 20 pages for that law, but now I'm saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28022	Well done, I'm just asking you about industrial design and ratification. I have to intervene because your example will lead to all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28023	Let them go...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28024	No, I won't let them "be" the second time. I'm only asking you about industrial design and ratification because it's on the agenda, so listen carefully to what's on the agenda. Be kind, you're the vice president of parliament, so you wouldn't allow everything in this building either. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28025	Okay. I'm also a Democrats, not a member, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28026	We are all by definition, so we are in parliament, and those who are not Democrats, they have other ways of fighting. Be kind because democracy means not riding, but a well-organized system. Here you go, just industrial design.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28027	Thank you for this lesson you gave me, I am very grateful and I will try, but there are some things that must be said about both the authors of this law and the people who explain it. We're not very happy, I'm talking about the explanation, we don't have a reason anywhere. Like this, you've kicked me out of the track a lot, but I'll try. So I've already mentioned that a colleague is right, that we're introducing some things and here's an example of these reforms by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and we, when we adopted the Law on Higher Education, have precisely defined the deadlines in which certain things need to be formed. As a center for the recognition of diploma, we have a three-month deadline for proposing members of the university council. Here's the eighth month, members of the Council are yet to propose. So these are these huge reforms that are causing pressures from various stakeholders, and publishers are also being placed in that group. I really don't know what this is about, what kind of pressure it is. I'm really worried about the Ministry and his associates. I am taking the opportunity to say that we condemn the attack on a colleague of Shuvakov and wish him a quick recovery and inclusion in these laws, including design, industrial design that will help us to move faster into negotiations with Europe. But when it comes to publishers, I have only one document here since 15 December of last year, bringing an end, signed by the secretary of the association, Mr. Bogicevic. I really don't know what this is about. Let me just say that it's been working on this for a year. Two committee sessions were dedicated to this matter. We had a very nice discussion, there were a lot of useful suggestions. One public hearing was dedicated to this matter. Unfortunately, when a bloc of members of the government, representatives of the ministry and MPs of the ruling coalition is formed on the one hand, and, on the other hand, MPs of the opposition, representatives of NGOs, national councils, national minorities, and publishers, why not mention them, it is certainly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28028	MP, you weren't getting ready for industrial design at all. I'm very sorry it's not on the agenda that you want to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28029	I've been getting very prepared and, please, allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28030	But you're talking about publishers. There are no publishers in industrial design.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28031	The importance of these laws that will allow automatic recognition of diplomas and scientific titles acquired in the Russian Federation and the Republic of Macedonia is of great importance, because we know what problems are not only with these countries, but also with countries in the region, other countries in the region and other European countries with which we do not have such agreements. So this kind of represents automation. With the relatively fast procedure of the Ministry of Education, it will be possible to quickly verify these diplomas and that people who have acquired scientific and academic titles in these two countries can quickly participate in educational, scientific work and industry, research development institutes in Serbia. For this reason, we will support these two laws, more specifically, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS will support this. Also, when it comes to a law that you keep reminding me not to talk about, and as I speak, it's an industrial design. We are aware of what this is about, that this is one necessity in order to comply with EU legislation and we have made one modest contribution in terms of three amendments. Unlike these two laws I have mentioned, we will vote for this law if our amendments are accepted. But if I may conclude, I am expressing once again the dissatisfaction of our parliamentary group and it seems to me that most of the opposition MPs are due to the fact that the key item of the agenda, the Law on textbooks, has been removed from the agenda. I hope I've been able to contribute to this discussion, this part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28032	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28033	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with their members and distinguished fellow Members, today we are talking about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design. In fact, it's a law that changes the existing law passed in 2009, which can be said to have been relatively comprehensive, good. But in the phase of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, it was concluded that some additions and amendments were needed. What are the amendments to this law? First of all, this law brings the nomenclature into line with the EU law nomenclature. It also defines more precisely the description of the subject itself as industrial design, which further strengthens the right to protect industrial design. It also strengthens the right of the right holder of industrial design or the author or the holder himself to whom the author has transferred those rights. Procedures for the application and protection of industrial design rights are redefine and the sanctioning procedures of those who trespass against other people's rights to industrial design are redefined. In short, this law speaks of the protection of one of the types of intellectual property and it is actually the right to the personality of industrial design or of any product or product group. To precisely mean what this law regulates, it takes a little bit of explaining the concept of industrial design itself. Industrial design, it's a combination of science and art, which defines aesthetic and ergonomic value and improves the useful value of an object. Socially responsible companies in their annual budgets separate very large funds that invest in design. English statistics say English companies spend about £33 billion on design. On the other hand, the World Customs Organization estimates that somewhere around 7% of world products are plagiarized and that in this irregular trade, about $500 billion is lost or perhaps, worse still, about several hundred thousand jobs are lost because this unfair competition of cheap plagiarized products leads to the closure of certain companies. The world economy is struggling with this problem in different ways. Of course, the most effective law enforcement and sanctioning is under the law, but there are other ways and methods. For example, the plagiarism museum opened in Paris. The museum exhibits objects of large brands such as "Louis Viton", "Prade", "Ray Bana" and their plagiarists. A relatively visited museum, has its own competition in an even more interesting, more significant museum in the German town of Solingen. The museum exhibits less-known brands, companies, less-known products and plagiarizations of these products. This museum was founded in 1977, and for almost 40 years it has been presenting to its visitors less famous companies, brands and their copies, but more importantly, it is awarding the annual award for the most absurd plagiarism. Simply, for the sake of a picture of the prize, which is otherwise very famous, world-renowned, is awarded at the Frankfurt Fair and always preys on great media attention and a lot is always written about it. These items are exposed and copied. For images of the absurdity of these products, here are just a few examples. The famous Italian company Moleskin produces interesting, beautiful, probably all of us know, notes that have been produced for more than 60, 70 years and the German firm Ars Nova has completely copied this note. But the absurd is as large as on the subject itself, and on the Italian note, and in German, it's exactly the same as the commercial it stands on – our notes were used by great artists like Mathis, Picasso, Hemingway. Also, one of the interesting exhibits is the “Rozentalova” shopping basket, which has 20 copies of products next to it. So 20 companies signed by their name that they own an industrial design of a completely identical product. What is closest to me and my profession is the plagiarization and abuse of industrial design in the furniture and interior industry, so products used in architecture. There is huge damage for producers who invest in design and those who copy these designs, because you know that from product to product prices can differ drastically, and apparently one product can look identical. We know that for decades, Korbisi's chairs have been copied, Miss van de Roo's armchairs. To be honest, I have to admit that a copy of a Roche Bobo chair is much less harmful than a copy in the medical industry. What probably represents the greatest danger is the abuse of industrial design in health care. It certainly doesn't matter if some stomach is original or produced as plagiarism. In the name of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, I want to support this law, because this law is primarily affirmative of intellectual property protection, in its own way helping to invest in young designers, investing in talented young people who, by helping companies to come to quality design, are actually providing themselves with work, and of course also afirm our industry. It is also very important that this law specifically improves a business environment of Serbia, and what the Social Democratic Party of Serbia particularly stands for in its functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28034	Thank you, Mrs. Bosnjak. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28035	Dear Members, I have simply come from the assumption that we will first discuss the Industrial Design Act and that we will discuss the agreements later. My mispresumption, and that is why I would like to explain the two laws concerning the confirmation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, or the Republic of Macedonia. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents and acquired education in scientific names was signed earlier last year, so in April, and the agreement was made up on the Russian side's initiative. It has already been ratified in the Russian Parliament and there is great interest that, above all, because of our working citizens or would like to work in the Russian Federation, this agreement is ratified. I don't think there's a particular need to explain why we have an important partner in the Russian Federation. This second agreement we have is a newer date. The essence of this law is the legal basis for some future steps. What the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia implies is nothing more than what already exists in the Lisbon Convention, but it is very important that we have an agreement as a legal basis for future steps of our co-operation in the field of education, in the area of employment with the Republic of Macedonia. This agreement was signed in February 2014. We believe that this is an example of a well-made agreement with the countries in the environment and we are very pleased with the co-operation with the representatives of the Republic of Macedonia and at the speed that we have reached the final text of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28036	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28037	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I would like first to express hope that the new draft law on textbooks will be better, as well as that certain areas in which it went backwards will be improved compared to earlier solutions. I will now speak more about these agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation and, on the other hand, with the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. At first, I realize they're not the same documents. With the Russian Federation, along with mutual recognition of public documents and equivalence, and with Macedonia, this level of equivalence is not foreseen. Equivalence is probably a higher level and a more efficient way of mutual recognition of diplomas, and here are especially the current diplomas of higher education. It's a good thing the minister is talking about the need for our citizens, who graduate here, to have no problem hiring in the Russian Federation. We have to admit that this problem is far more sensitive in these areas, because they're more connected. First, I think of the former Yugoslavia and the state stemmed from this former Federation that had a common education system. In that period it was known that there was no nostration or equivalence, and that in these new circumstances, given that minorities... We have recently heard from a representative of SVM who spoke, of course in general, the problem is probably Hungarians who graduate from Hungary, probably Bosniaks who graduate from Sarajevo or another BiH university or when it comes to Albanians who study in both Macedonia and Albania and Kosovo, and who have huge problems in the nosetriification and recognition of their higher education diplomas. They've been waiting for years. We had that problem with diplomats from Pristina, which lasted ten years, which had reversed the area drastically, because ten years of people couldn't work, according to the qualifications they had acquired. During a visit by the Albanian prime minister and the meeting he had here with the prime minister of Serbia, it was announced since 2003, when the deputy prime minister of the government arrived in Belgrade at the time, stalled, and it was thought that this would happen at the highest level during the last visit, but I see that no agreement has yet arrived in parliament that was promised and announced. As for the Presevo Valley, the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, I think, are mostly studying at the universities of Kosovo, Albania and Macedonia. So far, nostriction processes have been quite bureaucratic, it's much to wait for, it's paid pretty much. Of course, these agreements are expected to allow young people to get involved in the work process as soon as possible, to exercise basic human rights, to work in the area they qualified for. Again, I am concerned when I see that we have one level with the Russian Federation and another level with Macedonia, with which we have a far more frequent situation for young people from Serbia to study in Macedonia or vice versa. I don't see why there's this difference in the beginning. The sooner a similar agreement should be made with the government of Albania, and the problem created last decision must finally be solved, with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, when the Brussels Agreement on mutual recognition of higher education diplomas with Kosovo is under question. Because in the last year, the procedure has been blocked. I asked the minister a few times, and now I have referred, two months ago, a new letter, and to the EU Mission Minister in Belgrade, Mr Davenport, whom I received an answer from, but I still haven't - why the procedure following the Constitutional Court's decision, after the government again adopted a new regulation in November last year, but it is still not moving, everything has been blocked. Young people cannot achieve the basic human right to be recognized as a acquired diploma, to be able to work with it and to have a perspective for normal life in the country they live in. There's something else I need to point out. I received an explanation from Mr. Davenport that the problem is being handled by Minister Verbic, but if there is a dispute, he has to go back to Brussels to solve this problem. Why now, here, I speak loudly, the basic human right of our citizen, in addition to what in the past and for the last ten years, this right has not been realized, and when it finally started to resolve, we have stopped again and we are back in a stalemate position, actually in a matte position. Because people can't work with those diplomats. They don't know what they're on for a year. I personally don't know, since I've contacted the Minister, since I'm a member of the Education Committee, in the Assembly I've had the opportunity to contact Mr. Davenport and here, I don't even know what we're on, and how long should this nostration problem wait, not just with Kosovo, I'm talking about all segments, all the neighbouring countries, all the countries of Europe? We are in favour of joining the EU, of European values, and in the beginning we block these processes. For what? I expect to get an answer to that question from the minister today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28038	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28039	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Verbic with his associates and gentlemen from the Institute of Intellectual Property, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would first like to join all colleagues who have expressed regret that today we are not talking about the Bookbooks Act, and I hope there will be an opportunity to discuss that and the reason why we don't talk about it later. When it comes to the three laws of a total of five that we should have discussed, two of which have magically disappeared in the previous two days, I think we should first look at the agreements, i.e. the draft laws on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, on the one hand, and the Government of the Russian Federation, on the other hand, on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents on acquired education and scientific names, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, this Agreement with Macedonia on 11 February 2015, and the Agreement with Russia in December 2014, without a date, which is somewhat unusual and therefore, I appeal that when the Government urges the proposals of the Law to the National Assembly of Serbia to take account of the rules on the preparation of acts that the Assembly may be discussed. But it's just one of the shortcomings in these agreements. First, attention should be paid to why these two agreements are so different. When it comes to the Agreement with the Russian Federation, and I also think that we have more diplomas to recognise when it comes to people who have acquired a level of higher education or education in Macedonia at all than in the Russian Federation, the agreement is very detailed. First, it should be said that it was written in a language that was not allowed by any representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to sign. So many spelling mistakes, so many language errors, so many grammatical, syntax irregularities in one agreement are rarely seen and it is a shame that any representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has signed. Let's start with having the enclitics behind the decimal point, I don't think there's any enclitics in elementary school in grammar classes. Let's start with these sentences being something that's obviously been translated from Russian, but it's very unfortunately translated. I don't know who to point it at, since it's not your ministry that's a signer, it's Mr. Ivica Dacic. It was a shame to have someone sign a document on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with so many grammatical, spelling, linguistic, syntaxal errors. However, it is the manner of this government. I don't think there's a bill that didn't come into this assembly without a lot of that kind of stuff. However, we cannot change the text of the agreement, given that we here only vote to confirm the law that will confirm the agreement that has already been signed. But for the future, whoever can influence it, let them pay attention to it and let the agreement look at it and someone who may be expert in the lecturing of that agreement, because I think we are needlessly embarrassing the Republic of Serbia. What is imposed as a fundamental issue when looking at the Agreement with the Russian Federation, it is much more detailed than the Agreement with Macedonia, because different members are also quoted as saying which education acquired in the Republic of Serbia corresponds to which education acquired in the Russian Federation. It is then said that the diploma of basic academic studies issued after the completion of the minimum annual study programme in higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia is recognised in the Russian Federation, that the diploma of basic academic studies issued after the completion of the minimum four-year study programme in higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia and the degree of cod being issued in the Russian Federation is equivalent, the score – are equivalent, should be read as it says. So it's simply a very detailed agreement that, however, ignores what happened in our higher education over the past year since this agreement was signed. We have since introduced some new study programmes by the Law on Changes and Supplements of the Law on Higher Education, we have introduced a master of academic studies, here there is no word on what, for example, those people who will finish those studies, which will be a diplomat in Russia that will be equivalent to that. So we have entire study programs that we don't know what's going to happen. What is somewhat problematic, and I ask the minister to respond, he says – diploma of the second degree of higher education acquired after the completed masters of academic, or specialist studies issued by higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia and diploma specialists, the Master's diploma, which are issued in the Russian Federation are equivalent. This means that someone who is a master in the Republic of Serbia in Russia will get the title of magistrate, and yet on the other hand, there is no or at least I have not seen in these ten members what will happen to the people who gain the Master's title in Serbia. I don't see any mention of what title they will have in Russia, if those who have a master's title in Serbia in Russia are given the title of a magistrate who seems to me can't belong unless the master's title in Russia is something else, which is nowhere in the law. When it comes to an agreement with Macedonia on the same thing, it is more of a principled character, there is no word in it on which titles will be recognised in the Republic of Macedonia. What is the issue that is being raised, I think Mr. Halimi has already spoken about it, what will happen to diplomats who, for example, were acquired in Kosovo and now we're signing an agreement with Macedonia, does this mean that we will also recognise diplomas that were acquired in Kosovo even though it was not a practice so far? I now move to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design. We've had many times to talk about it, it's actually a law that is very much in line with EU directives in this area. But what it is is the first thing I'd like to ask, the same thing we've already talked about. It is about Article 7 amending Article 8 of the Law. Now that provision is, just to find it in my proposal, says this - Article 8. – exclusion of protection due to technical function and now we add words to this bill – and contradictions to public order and morals. Another intervention offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to add another position to this article, which says - industrial design cannot protect the appearance of products whose publication or use is contrary to legal order or accepted moral principles. My question is – what does it mean and who decides? I understand that this has been taken over from the European directive. In light of this change, it just says that it was the European Commission's request. However, it should be kept in mind that European legislation knows very well what these things mean. In the end, they have such a legal order that on the basis of judgments, there is a case law on which decisions can be made in the following cases. So the specific question is, who decides whether something is in line with the accepted moral principles and whether something is in line with the public order? What does that even mean? When it comes to the use of, say, state symbols, it cannot be explained because it is governed by other laws, in the end, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been arranged in what way state symbols can be used, and it is very unfortunate if such a solution remains without any explanation of who decides, in which case, it might be interesting to hear what examples of what is meant by this and how it will be assessed whether something is in line with public order and accepted moral principles. That's why we've given an amendment that we're proposing that the government be closer to sorting out the way they're going to decide on these things. Is that acceptable to you, we hope it is. If not, we are ready to make some kind of amendment or supplementation, but we really think that there is a need for this field to be arranged because there may be major abuses. Does this mean that tomorrow someone can declare that they are contrary to public order and generally accepted moral principles? Does this mean that someone can ban the logo of some organizations? It's just very, very dangerous things that can get in the field of human and civil freedom and rights, and that's why we think it's a great danger if it stays this unsettled and undefined. The Bureau has sent us as a committee several amendments which we will consider at our next session and probably propose them as amendment committees to improve the draft law. What is extremely bad, and what is not also happening for the first time, has already become the manner of this government that you are practically changing the entire members of the law to which some MPs have submitted amendments, and these amendments are becoming meaningless. One of them refers to Article 9 where everything cannot be registered as industrial design. There's a lot of, I'd say, strange things. Among other things, it is also said that under this law protection cannot be approved by industrial design, so it says one - which does not represent industrial design. I really don't know how we can have a sentence that protection can't be granted to industrial design that's not industrial design, etc. But we're going to consider the amendment committees and we're going to talk about it. A large part of the law dealt with what actually happens when industrial design does not have an individual character, that is, when it comes to the so-called. plagiarisms. There is one large part of 15 or 20 members of the law dealing with the court in these cases. I'm not sure it's the right place for those members in this law. Perhaps this could be defined by some other laws because court conduct is usually a matter governed by other laws. However, Article 39, which adds a new member of 66a, says - the court can set a temporary measure immediately following the receipt of a proposal to determine the provisional measure and the irrevocable statement of the opposition party, especially if there is a risk of delaying the proposing that suffers irreparable damage. Well, if the lawsuit isn't filed, so on and so forth. Then Article 41 says - the court can determine the provision of evidence immediately after the receipt of the proposal for the provision of evidence without a statement by the opposing party etc. We don't usually know what it means that a court can determine something, which means that it can and doesn't have to determine it, so it's unclear in which cases the court will do it, and in which cases it won't, in which cases there will be a statement by the opposing party, in which it won't, etc. So it's another one of the suggestions that these things don't go free, but to be one way or the other. Since it is a kind of intellectual property, i.e. that these rights are, in fact, the legal protection of industrial design falls within the scope of some copyrights, there is a question – what would happen, in other cases, that someone contests the authorship of one's works, such as doctoral dissertation, and that the court acts in this way and determines temporary measures without stating the opposite? I'm not just saying this in my head and hypothetically. We have had opportunities to hear here questions of authorship over certain scientific works by many of our officials, interior minister, mayor of Belgrade, etc. What would happen, and why do we not have the same criteria when it comes to all intellectual property and why in all cases the court does not react equally to the protection of industrial design in one way, and when it comes to authorship of doctoral dissertation reacts in a completely different way or does not react at all, what was the case? The last question for Mr. Minister is – is it how we can be sure that this law, in fact, these three laws, he proposes to us freely and willingly since we came from yesterday's statement by Mr. Minister, and that is not the explanation he gave on the board when he explained these laws, we could hear that he withdrew the Law on textbooks because of the pressure? This is very dangerous, because it would mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is subject to the pressures of bookstores and the issue is being raised -- is there then any agreement with that pressurer, so the law has been withdrawn to meet their demands about which they are pressing or whatever? That's why, Mr. Minister, when we talked about your personal integrity, if you're a man who's under pressure, and a statement from the government went out yesterday, as far as we can tell...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28040	Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28041	... that any law you propose has not been made under pressure and that you suggest it by your own will and by standing behind it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28042	Thank you. Is anyone else answering from the authorized representatives? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28043	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen National MPs, are now on the agenda to amend and supplement the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design and Two Agreements, i.e. two Laws on Confirming an Agreement in the field of Education, these are bilateral agreements of the Republic of Serbia signed with the Russian Federation, i.e. with the Republic of Macedonia on Mutual Recognition and Equivalence of Public Procedures on Acquisition of Education and Scientific Names. In the beginning, I will say that the SPS Group will vote for all three laws. When it comes to the Act on the Protection of Industrial Design, i.e. amending this law, it is important to point out that the envisaged solutions primarily aim to comply with the rules applicable in the EU and to address certain perceived shortcomings that have resulted in different interpretation and application of the law. Although it is a matter of changing the termological nature, they should allow for a more precise interpretation and more efficient application of the applicable law. The fact is that, as with the protection of intellectual property in general and industrial design, there is a problem in the application of the Copyright Protection Act. Therefore, this law amends and complements the part currently related to civil and legal protection, with a view to establishing an effective system of legal protection of industrial design as part of a national system for the protection of intellectual property rights. The amendments to the law define in this respect a product subject to the protection of industrial design. Namely, this change in product definition, in addition to the parts intended to be combined into a complex product, product packaging, graphic symbols and typeographic characters, adds the total visual identity of the product. Otherwise, the amendment of the law also prescribes periods for which, with the payment of the prescribed fee, an extension of the validity of the protection, and periods of five years of a total duration of 25 years, as long as industrial design can be protected. It is significant that amendments to the law prescribe who can represent foreign persons in the procedure before the competent authorities. The law stipulates that a foreign natural or legal person who does not have a residence or head office in the Republic of Serbia in a procedure before the competent authorities must appoint a representative from the order of the persons registered in the register of agents run by a competent authority or a domestic lawyer. In other words, if a foreign person has a residence, or a seat on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it will not be obliged to appoint a representative. Then, amendments and additions to the law define the maximum number of industrial designs that can be sought for protection and define multiple applications for recognition of industrial design, which so far did not exist. The law simplifies application procedures for the recognition of industrial design. The descriptions of the industrial application design will refer exclusively to those elements of industrial design that make it new, not all of the elements of industrial design, as derived from the current provision. In this way, the submission of applications for recognition of industrial design will be greatly facilitated, since the provisions so far required the assembly of very large and often difficult to understand descriptions. Next, the changes arranged the content of the presentation of industrial design. The display must be so designed as to make it clear how the outer appearance of the subject of protection, as well as its parts that are visible continuously or at the time of its regular use. A good solution is to pre-register industrial design at national level, i.e. in the Republic of Serbia, it is not a prerequisite for its international registration. The law also regulates the scope of industrial design rights. It is important to define the scope of the right for the recognition of industrial design for its titler to be granted a monopoly right from which the content of the rights in terms of authority is derived to highlight its right to third parties. At the same time, the amendments to the law are also prescribed to restrict the rights of the rightholder to industrial design in relation to the actions made for private purposes, not only for commercial purposes, as the applicable provision determines. The fact that an action has been carried out for non-commercial purposes does not necessarily mean that it has been carried out for private purposes, for example, because it is possible for a third party to use protected industrial design by making a product according to protected industrial design and giving it away without compensation to third parties or making it available to the public in any other way that has no commercial purpose. Finally, amendments to the law prescribe mandatory procedures for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. For example, it is prescribed that by the day of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, the provision of this law relating to the availability to the public of industrial design will apply even if there was no reasonable possibility in standard business flows that business circles specialising in the territory of the EU Member States or in the European Economic Area would find out about the discovery of industrial design. In general, these amendments to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design also represent a more precise definition of some institutes and procedures and necessary alignment with EU legal assets. When it comes to bilateral agreements that the National Assembly should ratify, i.e. to confirm, I think it is worth pointing out their importance. The Republic of Serbia has a highly developed bilateral, political, economic and cultural co-operation with the Russian Federation, with which we have eternal friendship, relations and co-operation. With Russia so far, he has signed a large number of bilateral agreements, starting with the Free Trade Agreement, signed in August 2000, which freed Serbian products from customs when they are intended for the Russian market. Only at a time when Ivica Dacic was prime minister, a large number of bilateral agreements were signed with the Russian Federation, including an agreement on the establishment of a Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis. Only during one stay of Prime Minister Dacic in Moscow in 2013, seven bilateral agreements were signed, such as the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of rail transport, the Agreement on the Status of Military Memorials in the territory of both countries, the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation, the Agreement on the Exchange of Statistics on Foreign Trade, the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of agriculture and the Agreement on the Co-operation of Customs Services. Among the agreements signed at the time is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents on acquired education and scientific names. It is interesting to note that the initiative to sign the agreement was launched by the Russian side in 2009. It should also point out that the decades-long co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the Russian Federation in the field of education and science can be assessed as very successful, both in terms of size and quality, so that the validation of this agreement further provides a legal framework for institutional continuation and improvement and co-operation. The agreement confirms both sides' desire to further develop and encourage bilateral co-operation in the field of education, which is raised at the level of mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents on acquired education and scientific names issued in the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. The agreement sets out concrete forms of co-operation and how it will be achieved. They will mutually recognise diplomas of acquired education at all levels, from basic to high, including doctoral studies. The issue of equivalent public documents by the competent institutions will allow for the exchange of experts, i.e. the completion of education after each acquired level of education in one or another of the signatories. This agreement with the Russian Federation is just another form of bilateral co-operation with this friendly country, which is our friend, but also a major business partner, both in the field of energy and in the fields of agriculture, construction and certainly in the fields of culture, science and education. Also, I would like to point out that on 10 April 2013, in Moscow, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the then Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic signed the agreement. The second agreement on mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education and professional academic and scientific names, which we are discussing today, is an agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. The initiative to conclude this agreement, which provides a legal basis for mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education and professional academic and scientific names, launched the Macedonian side in 2010. The agreement confirms the two sides' desire to develop bilateral relations in the field of education and science, according to the 1997 Lisbon Convention on the recognition of qualifications relating to higher education in the region of Europe. The fact is that our two, otherwise neighbouring countries, have a mutual interest in regulating the issue of mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education and on professional academic and scientific names, and above all because of the significant orientation of one another and to facilitate education for the citizens of one of the signatories in the territory of another country of the signatories. The entry into force of this Agreement should also contribute to simpler procedures for the recruitment of persons with recognised diplomats in signatories countries. Both agreements represent significant forms of bilateral co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, i.e. the Republic of Macedonia, and will reflect in the ultimate line to improve overall political and economic relations, which Serbia is fostering and is seeking to further improve. These are two more examples of such a course of the Republic of Serbia, which is on the general agenda when it comes to the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in a wider space with all other countries in the environment and beyond. Finally, honourable ministers, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out once again that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote for all three laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28044	Thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic. The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28045	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Progressive Party, I express my support for the solutions on the agenda today, as well as the proposed solutions for the legal confirmation of the Agreement on mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education, as well as for academic and scientific names with the Republic of Macedonia and with the Russian Federation, which I certainly consider to be good and useful in this regard. Once again, I underline the support of our parliamentary group and certainly cannot agree with some strange assessments that we have been able to hear today, that there is something in one of these agreements to the point of dispute that even the term "familiacy" has been used. On the contrary, nothing like this is here. I even note that it is very good for every commendation that this proposal has come to us from Moscow through the Ministry and I join the invitations to have these agreements with as many countries as possible. I express my support and the proposed amendments to the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design, a law which the proposer described in the accompanying explanation as a technical solution above all, because it is mainly focused on the terminology of the existing law. However, this is a law that I consider even more important than this assessment, in particular as regards the establishment of new standards set up by the European Parliament's directives and I believe that it is a sort of conclusion after the screening process, and on the issue of negotiating chapters seven, which relate to the protection of intellectual property rights. So in this context, I welcome the established practice of drawing good conclusions from these processes and establishing the best possible standards through part of our established European pathway. I also underline the importance of the proposed law and so much as it enables more precise interpretations and more effective application of the laws after the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions, gives the framework for better improvement of legal protection precisely through more effective protection of industrial design particularly, then, through an further improved solution to the public's accessibility issues, as far as the present issue is concerned, and in this context, business circles specialised in the given area are treated, which is important for practice, which is to eliminate existing legal gaps, which is also important for practice, and which is localised analysis of this phenomenon. So, the issue of public availability in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, it is another issue that is important for practical application. Furthermore, I welcome that the process of recognition is simplified in the analysis of industrial design, which facilitates the assembly of applications, is very important for the entities who are interested, who approach these applications and protect rights in that sense. The scope and content of industrial design rights are further decorated. All the proposed solutions were established in close co-operation with the European Commission, the proposed solutions, the comments, the suggestions that came from that side, but also all interested actors in the Republic of Serbia, which, I believe, we will agree, only for every praise. None of the proposed solutions entail new costs, whether for the citizens, or for the economy in the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, through the establishment of new stability, strengthening security indirectly encourages the development of a free market. I will look back at the very end and a few comments that we have been able to hear today from distinguished colleagues from other parliamentary groups. I will certainly not pay attention to attempts to debate a law that is not at all on the agenda, nor would I consider it appropriate, nor could I support it in any way, nor would I be able to comment on the issue of mutual recognition of public documents, as is the case today, but in a broader context that does not apply to other countries, to, as we have said, the Republic of Macedonia and the Russian Federation. It is more than clear that, at least on this issue, it is possible to discuss this kind of mutual recognition, when it comes to the work of the Republic of Serbia and those institutions, I suppose, of higher education, that it was an accent, which does not work in accordance with the system of care of the Republic of Serbia at least. Furthermore, that there is a need to carry out certain technical corrections and that certain amendments are in line with this proposal, and I agree with that, and I believe that there will be room to determine that really some of the things that are purely technical issues need to be resolved. The attempt to extend the issue of judicial protection, when it comes to authorship, to other topics, in particular, I think it was also a matter of scientific work, I find it an interesting attempt, but unfortunately completely unsuccessful, I only regret that colleagues who had largely had certain objections are currently not in the room, but I believe that they will consult the video, so accordingly, I call for the question of the jurisdiction of the courts, when it comes to the authorship of any kind. I think the differences are more than obvious and clear to everyone, that we don't deal with cheap politics on these issues. That the contents of interstate agreements can't be changed, it's certainly clear to all of us, even to whoever tried to at least figuratively put one of the topics today, that kind of conclusion he made himself. But just in case someone didn't understand the things we were able to hear yesterday at the meeting of the competent assembly board, a lot of the questions that were raised today were asked yesterday. The committee itself has provided an adequate direct and unequivocal answer to each question. Well, in particular, as regards the Agreement with the Republic of Macedonia, which is on the agenda and the possibility of indirect recognition of certain documents that would not be recognised otherwise, such a danger, ladies and gentlemen, under the pretext, is certainly a danger, absolutely no. I refer to Article 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As regards issues of public order and morals of Article 8. The law on the legal protection of industrial design, and we talked about it yesterday, so let me remind you again, maybe that day was too long for some respected colleagues yesterday. The possibility of finding examples, unfortunately, only limits our imagination. When it comes to public order and morality, only imagination can literally set a limit on how personal feelings can be offended, for example. religious feelings, e.g. National sentiments, but anything considered a standard, in line with the degree of civilization we've reached so far. All of this is adequately sanctioned through this provision, to protect the public order as well as the moral norm. Finally, I would like to thank the distinguished colleagues and colleagues who have expressed support for these legal solutions, the support that I am stressing once again by the SNS and to express a slight regret that we have even heard the words that this support will be conditioned by the adoption of their amendments. I believe that esteemed colleagues will find that it is not necessary for all the amendments they have submitted to be accepted so that they too can realize that they are satisfied with the result. I say this primarily because of one of the amendments that applies to one of the attempts that we have long considered in our practice in this room to be completely excess, which is that it is further established there in some final provisions additional control of the effects that are achieved by law enforcement, and we have already agreed on many occasions so far, I believe that there are other ways, ways that have already been established, that this kind of control, if nothing else is adequate information about the effects achieved and achieved. It is not necessary to insist that this too be adopted, in order to, I believe, support together good solutions, solutions that we will conclude are to the benefit of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28046	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the Club of Youth from Zemun, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. We are moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a common principle and uniform search. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Djeric, and let the MP Janko Veseinovic be prepared. Here you go. Mrs. Zlata Djeric is not in the O.R. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28047	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, who lost one law on his way to the Assembly, but it happens, so today we won't, although it was my wish, even though it was probably your wish, to talk about the Bookbooks Act because you have concluded yourself that it is so bad, that even amendments can't fix it. That is why we will be very happy to discuss the remaining three proposals. One is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design and two agreements on mutual recognition of diplomas. Certainly, our parliamentary group, as always, will support interstate agreements that allow for better mobility of people from knowledge and that enable the university in one country to be in an adequate way and through a simpler procedure than it was in the previous period recognised by us, or in the country of signatories, to say the same. In that part, we'll be constructive, as we've always been. However, when it comes to the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, we have a number of questions, Minister Verbic, for you. In fact, you're a man, so you're represented when Alexander Vukic, as prime minister, presented you as a minister, a man of science. You should know what intellectual property means and it's not some virtual property, it's real property, like property on some moving thing. So someone has a hectare of land, someone has a car, and someone has intellectual property. In various forms of intellectual property, one of them is industrial design. But there are, of course, important copyrights and other forms of intellectual property for us. They don't respect us, Mr. Verbich. What Honorable counterpart Orlic said earlier and referred to our amendment, which we asked for to carry out the evaluation, to say the right Serbian word, or to control the application of the law, is not a waste, it is not because we are doing "a copy of the landscape", but because you are proposing laws that are not applied in practice. When it comes to the protection of intellectual property, among other things, the protection of industrial design, according to the latest research done by a world-wide institution dealing with these issues, the International Alliance for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, has shown that our country, in 90% of the cases of intellectual property, trades with it on black. So, if only it were only 10% of intellectual property in legal flows, that everything called intellectual property and what should be the subject and income of the author, the owner, the holder of the intellectual property and tax incomes of the state, of these tax revenues, only of these tax revenues would cover the total savings achieved by reducing pensions to pensioners, salaries to educators, who have been strikers, cops, people who do other jobs and are paid out of the government register. So we have the intellectual property of the gray zone. One of the most lively zones in the economy. Why is that? Because we don't have adequate teams in the police to fight cyber crime and all forms of crime concerning intellectual property. Because we don't have trained people in other areas who could even deal with it. That's why we were declared a country with special status in the world's very top by the spread of piracy and violation of intellectual property rights. I'm asking you, Mr. Verbich, do you know that? Do you know that we are the country with the highest degree of risk when it comes to the use and use of intellectual property and that whoever wants to protect patents, industrial design. Some authors from Serbia do so abroad because they are afraid that protection in Serbia will not bring them much, so that it will not apply even in our country. Do you know, Mr. Verbic, that even in 1810, the Shabs' cafes had an obligation to pay taxes and compensation to the music melodies that were performed in their cafes? Do you know that, Mr. Verbich? It's been 200 years since then, intellectual property at our place below the level of the Sabbath bar from the beginning of the 19th century, so 200 years ago. You, the minister, have come from science, who understands the problems of science. Mr. Minister, you haven't shown this, you haven't done anything in a year to protect intellectual property in Serbia. Nothing. So not only in the area of protection of industrial design, but also in other areas of intellectual property, especially copyright. So, the authors' editions in Serbia are being copied, Mr Verbic on websites, published and copied in copycats. That's why today, apparently, almost on the verge of reason, is the man who publishes the work and announces it to one of the publishers, because he knows that this will work...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28048	Be nice, about industrial design, we're about to get the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28049	You have no idea about industrial design if you don't know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28050	I know, right, about intellectual property.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28051	Industrial design is a form of intellectual property and we're just talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28052	Yeah, but you were talking all the time about copyright. I just wanted to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28053	Intellectual property is a form of copyright.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28054	I just wanted to help you, not argue with you, that the law will soon appear before us, just to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28055	To help you, therefore, industrial design is a form of copyright and form of intellectual property. Only one of the forms and protection of copyright, i.e. intellectual property, is vice-proportional interest of the owners of industrial design to protect their rights. So if there are no competent, certain teams in the police, inspections qualified to prevent this crime, then there's nothing to protect industrial design or other forms of design. Let's say, what happens, Mr. Minister, if we say one of the, let's say, authors who don't want to work already want to copy, let's say they take as their industrial design a model of Beograda on water? Do you have adequate ways to say someone in Chačka takes that model and declares it his own. How is that protected? And modeling in Serbia, as you know, is one of the highly developed disciplines. And now, as Minister Verbic, when we talk about industrial design today to get to it, and I would say the most perfect type or form of intellectual property, besides other copyrights. It's not easy to perform the wheat of a certain type and protect it, so it's not easy to do industrial design. That's what we need students for, right, to finish primary, high school, right? They need to learn from some textbooks to deal with industrial design, and in the meantime you have lost these days the Law on textbooks. What are these kids going to learn about industrial design? How are they going to learn to work on a computer at all when these textbooks are inadequate and as you seem to say, publishing has taken over organized crime. You have proposed a law that will not lead to us providing learning at school because they have inadequate textbooks, or they have textbooks that ultimately explain in the Law on textbooks, there are some charts that have practically entered schools by giving someone bribes or by making sure that these textbooks come in that way to school. So, how are those kids going to be able to do design tomorrow, industrial design if they have such bad textbooks and you say you'll have those textbooks by August 1st that you're going to pass the Bookbooks Act. By August 1st, Professor, Minister, the students will then go to school. They should have new textbooks, obtained by another principle. Because of that, I see the presidents that you approve of this way of mine...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28056	I said on September 1st, children go to school in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28057	10th, good. This, the minister wrote that by September 1st, the Law on textbooks was adopted in the Assembly and I don't know how public procurement will be made and they will come before small students, large students. Therefore, ministers accept this amendment for the first time to be one of the ministers who accepted the amendment to sit down for a year and talk about how this law applies. Accept the good practice of some European legislators who hold this provision as a control provision. So when you make a good law and you say it's good, you show up in a year and you say -- here, I suggested this law, in the meantime it's been implemented like that and so on. Dear People's MPs, do you have any objections and do you expect any improvements? Why don't you be the first minister to accept that in a year's time, if you're not reconstructed, you'll be here in the Assembly telling us about it? Here, accept that and prove yourself above the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or ministers who have not adopted such provisions, and we will vote in favour of that law, here, on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have also told the other MPs, we promise that we will vote in favour of this law if you accept such an amendment, of course, and these amendments that are indeed in order to improve this law. Thank you. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28058	Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28059	The Rules of Procedure of Madam President, Article 106, have been injured that the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted, that is, paragraph 1. Mr. Vesenović talked about everything, everything that occurred to him, from Novi Sad to Belgrade today, and about the leaves, and about design, and I don't know what, and whatever came to his mind, only the points of the agenda didn't come to mind. I have, as a rule, been well informed in the Assembly, so I have looked and received, and here I am grateful to the services of the National Assembly, when and what has been withdrawn from the procedure in the National Assembly, since the subject is why some laws have been withdrawn. Two laws withdrawn in the entire 10th term. Two laws in a year. Madam President, Mr Janko Veselinovic withdrew the motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija on 8 September 2008, and withdrew the entire motion for an extraordinary meeting on 30 September 2008, and the draft law on the ban on discrimination was withdrawn. That couldn't be fixed by the amendments either, so it's the disastrous government of Boris Tadic who bombed us with such bad proposals. Also, in 2009, the Data Securitisation Act was withdrawn from the procedure, the withdrawal of the 2008 final budget account, the truth, the former regime never passed the bill or gave it to them, it didn't matter. The draft decisions of various people, the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency 2010 have been withdrawn from the procedure. In 2011 The Rehabilitation Act was withdrawn from the procedure. On 20 October 2010, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the PIO system was withdrawn. Please, when we add to all this the Law on Railways, which we are here at the National Assembly in 2010, forgive 2011, and debated both in detail and in principle and never voted, never entered the procedure, never had the courage to declare in their legal proposal, please do not let them talk again about what is going on in their minds. Please, Madam President, one more sentence, remind me, I don't know if Mr. Veselinovic knows that he's been in power for 12 years, that he hasn't done anything in intellectual property for 12 years, that he's only been developing piracy in Serbia for 12 years, and also remind him of what the official and the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia is doing, what he did yesterday and how many people have been processed in the action "Armedion".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28060	Thank you. Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. I agree, but I am aware that the MPs are obviously who have spoken earlier have not prepared themselves on these points of the agenda and then a little awkwardly explains it all, but if you want us to vote on the point? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. I thank you. Can I help you? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) This is the Rules of Procedure. You've torn out the cover, so I don't know what it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28061	I didn't rip out the president's cover. I have an original edition of the Rules of Procedure that was somewhat more modest, so that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28062	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28063	I'm reporting under Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, by which the People's Messenger can speak, point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and speak for two minutes. You have allowed the head of the parliamentary group to speak almost 30% of the time longer than it was possible under the Rules of Procedure, and in addition he did not explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, he didn't say what I hurt the Rules of Procedure, but he was dealing with statistics that he normally does when he can't get into matter, when he can't answer why the laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28064	Ambassador, I'm gonna have to interrupt you for a little while. The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not exist, so you are now doing all of this the same thing that you are hating others. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and take a stenogram, you're just talking today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28065	It's not like that, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28066	I'll let you go, talk as much as you want about it but a little intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28067	I see that you have an understanding of the position of the opposition more and more and that we will be able to say something, but that is not possible because, for example, someone during the breach of the Rules of Procedure, time for breach of the Rules of Procedure, say harming the dignity of the National Assembly or doing some other injury, an MP may point to that. There's no replication to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not that there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure's injuries. I just want to finish. So, I don't think Mr. Babic spoke, explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that he spoke to other times and that you should have warned him and that he should have stopped this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28068	Thank you. Do you want to vote after I really hurt the injury... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28069	The dignity of the National Assembly, Madam President, would not be repeated by Article 103, because Mr Veselinovic also spoke longer about the violation of the Rules of Procedure than guaranteed two minutes, but these are the double arches that are approximately applicable to some people in our society and those rules that Mr. Vesenović tries to take after himself, that what applies to him does not apply to others and vice versa. On the other hand, I'm here declared by Mr. Veselinović who has no such title or expertise necessary to assess whether anyone knows or knows the matter, but what I do know is with my humble knowledge, recognition, humble knowledge, not a single minute in 12 minutes how he bombed us with all kinds of nonsense, and it's not the first and last time... (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this? )......................................................................................................... but it's more than one thing to worry about, Boris Tadic, and about that he's been pushing for such things, not a single gesture, not a single sentence he hasn't talked about on the agenda, accusing this government who's had responsibility for a year unlike Boris Tadic who's had 12 years of responsibility and has done nothing but play basketball and did nothing but run marathons, as Mr. Vesenovic has done nothing but raise his hand here for various laws that are now his statistics. Where's the Law of Prohibition of Discrimination now? Pulled out of procedure. Where is the railway law Mr. Veselinović was talking about? Pulled out of procedure. Look, for Mr. Veselinović this is statistics, it is a demeaning of the dignity of the National Assembly, this is the life of the National Assembly. Look at the whole paper of the law, dozens and dozens of laws that Mr. Vesenovic has withdrawn from the procedure because they are written by the hands of ignorants, snotters and someone who had no good intentions according to the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28070	Don't talk like that about an MP, please don't talk about a colleague like that, please. The word is Irena Alexic. Let's get back to the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28071	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, today we are discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design. In fact, it is about amendments and additions to the current 2009 law, and the main objective of the proposed changes and additions is to create one of the most effective systems for protecting industrial design in our country. When the existing law is in force, it has been observed that there are certain shortcomings, especially in its practical application. It was then observed that there are certain shortcomings in terminology. In fact, some definitions are not precise enough, unspecified, so that, as such, they leave room for different interpretations which simply, when it comes to the law, should not be and it is simply unacceptable, so that the proposed changes and additions change it. So, this termological ambiguity is being erased, and of course it will result in a more effective application of this law in practice which, of course, is the ultimate goal. Also, one of the reasons for adopting or proposing amendments and supplementing the current law is that our legislation would be brought into line with EU legislation. In fact, the existing law is well in line with EU legislation, however, during the negotiations of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation, it is necessary to change some things when it comes to this law, which, of course, is done with full respect for all the recommendations the European Commission has made. However, what has drawn particular attention to me and what I think is very good at this law is that it insists on efficiency and, above all, on the efficiency of judicial protection, which I think is crucial. Now, with these changes and additions, it is maximum work to protect the right holder in all possible ways and that in the process of the lawsuit itself, as well as in the time period before the action is filed, which is nothing less significant. Also, what is a newspaper and what I would especially like to praise is that the current article of the 66th current law is complemented by the fact that it is now possible for the court to react on time, or the court to determine a temporary measure and without having previously heard the opposite side if there is one real danger, one realistic assessment that it will cause irreparable damage to the rightholder. I think it's a great thing to do it like that, which is counterproductive. I think that in this way the court is given practically certain hands to react effectively, to react quickly, because any slowness is simply unacceptable in these situations, so I think the deadline proposed for this means that it is done for ten days, that all of this goes in favour of creating a really effective system of protection, which, of course, will raise one level of legal certainty in our country. Also, what I think is good is that the Institute of Intellectual Property through its Centre for Education and Information will maintain a series of activities of an educational character with one single goal, means that it shows how to properly apply this law, so that it actually lives in practice, which is ultimately the goal. Then, today, two draft agreements between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation are on the agenda, between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Macedonian government in the area of education. And I think both agreements are very good, that they are very good, that they will certainly contribute to raising our countries' co-operation when it comes to education to a higher level. With regard to co-operation with the Russian Federation in the field of education, the co-operation is already at an envious level, and this proposal creates practically one legal framework to further improve this co-operation, further develops. Otherwise, I think that agreements are always a good idea, especially when it comes to education, because there's always something new to learn, it can always be an exchange of experiences, by exchanging information, everything, so that's one thing that's alive and where, certainly, when education is, and of course, other areas, but especially when it comes to education, I think there should be as many agreements that are good, which are as good as these. They will, of course, always get our support. Otherwise, at the very end, I would like to point out that neither the bill we are discussing today nor the proposed agreement requires additional funds for our citizens, nor our economy, which is not so irrelevant, not at all. So we're getting something that's good, we're getting something that's quality, and we don't have to invest any extra resources, so I think we should always support it. The Serbian Progressive Party will, of course, do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28072	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28073	In the beginning, I would only say that when we talk about industrial design law, somewhere we all forget that the basic objective of lawmaking and copyright protection is to establish a single order, when we talk about getting finished products to achieve better competitive values in the economy. So, education in this case and the protection of copyright when we talk about industrial design simply aims to develop economic activities. That's the aspect we haven't talked to before. We did not talk about that design is at all a large set of creative activities, and that when we speak at all about the product itself, and the product is both goods and services, all that is produced on the capital market, it is essentially, in a narrow sense, about the product itself, and in a broader sense, industrial design is already a kind of multidisciplinary kind of science that is connected today. So, today's topic is not to be ignored at all, because it represents one of the conditions and when we talk about negotiations, when we talk about Chapter 7 and through exploitive and bilateral screenings that were related to Chapter 7, we had to go through and commit, especially when it comes to industrial design, for a particular order in this area, and trust me that in the last term, when a European delegation came and all the European Parliament committees about the SAA and about the rules that we should slowly introduce to the Agreement with the World Trade Organisation, this topic has always been somewhere below all the issues. It may not seem to many today, but one of the conditions of all business activities will be just to protect copyright in creating a brand, in creating a market game, when we're talking about economic activities at all. The design today is one of the components, and one of the main characteristics and dimensions of product quality. What you are going to market with today, the quality of the product reflects the quality of the organisations, i.e. the companies that produce the product. So when you come into the situation that you need to go to the market, you have to have a precise system and in a certain way defined industrial design through both trade marks and stamps and through a competition. Therefore, the protection of competition on the market itself can only be established if you have defined copyright, so if you have a protected trade mark. What's the condition you're going out with is the price and the time limit, and the price is created based on supply and demand, so we're all part of that one market, and when we want to buy a particular product, we always turn to whoever has a certain kind of protection. Therefore, today's topic and this law relating to legal regulation and copyright shows that, as customers, we will participate in this order, but those as producers who come out with defined copyrights for industrial design of a particular product, and even for the ultimate purpose, when we talk about packaging, we simply participate in all this. In this order, we have come to the conclusion that through this legislative proposal we will also adopt EU directives, which are prescribed both in 2004 and in 2007 by the European Parliament. We will come to this situation that we will adopt what you have proposed, which is all the mechanisms that you will establish efficiency in this process, that we will have one unique register on this issue and that this transparency that insists on it will be much greater. So far, we haven't had a case until 2012, that even in the area of copyright, order has been introduced at all, but since 2012, it seems to me that although there are strong resistances on the market when we talk about branding, because we are aware that by inaction by 2012, many of our brands have protected many other countries, many other producers. We lost that game at the start, so we have an example when we talk about our Serbian Kajmak as a trade mark, about ajvar. So, we have come to an entirely unenviable position that our businessmen cannot at all protect this kind of brand as their product, as an authentic Serbian product, but must bend, in a certain way transforming their brand differently to get out of the market with an extremely finished product known in the world that we are the best producers. I mean, when we're talking about intellectual property at all, about that idea, it's kind of a neglected topic somewhere. It simply implies that patents and some idea solutions that our scientists, including our inventors who don't have to be in the status of scientists somewhere must be protected at the Institute of Intellectual Property, but always somewhere to protect them with a kind of restraint out of fear that they will be partly plagiarized. This is what you are now trying to introduce order, trying to establish a functioning system in this area, which is exclusively related to the end result in the economy, and by which you, as Minister of Science here, show that this symbiosis between the work of scientific institutions, education and today-to-morrow of all business activities of the manufacturer should be stronger and simply will give some of your dizziness in the economic activities of opening new small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, I thank you for coming today, despite all the pressures, when we're talking about the laws that have entered, and then withdrawn from the procedure, which you're still doing a hard job when it comes to both science and education. I thank you for coming and simply showing that this government, regardless of all the pressures that exist in society, is going to fight all the challenges that have come to collect after these 15 years of not doing much in society and that simply when we start from copyright, it will certainly be supported by the SNS and will certainly bring order to the next day and introduce order in many areas that are related to your portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28074	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28075	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, three laws are in front of us today. The first law concerns the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design and it concerns two draft laws on agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia concerning the recognition of public documents on acquired education and recognition of acquired titles. First of all, I will focus on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design and I will say that, based on the follow-up to the implementation of this law, the competent ministry has seen certain shortcomings and failures and that in order to eliminate these shortcomings and failures, among other things, these amendments and additions to the law have arisen. Apart from the shortcomings observed by the Ministry during the implementation of the law, in any case, Serbia is on its way to the EU and on this road it is necessary to bring our legal legislation into line with EU legislation, as regards this law specifically with the European Parliament's 1998 directives and the European Parliament's 2004 directive. Apart from harmonising with the European directives, I cannot, not to mention, these amendments and additions to the laws also concern compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Security and Enforcement. What I want first to point out is that the description of industrial design is simplified, and that is how significant, because in the description of industrial design, the accent, or focus is placed on what is novelty, on what is novelty, on what is an individual character. So, apart from simplifying this simplification and this focus of news, it is also important for the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property, but it is also very important in judicial proceedings, especially in those cases where skill and judicial skills are necessary and the findings of a particular profession. So she's also meaningful in judicial protection. What I want to point out, and what's new in this law, is to represent foreign faces in front of the authorities. The proposed law put our citizens and foreign citizens in an unequal position when it comes to the exercise of their rights before the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property, which is certainly not in accordance with Article 43. The law on general administrative procedure, which determines that all persons, except those who are deprived of their business abilities, can do business on their own behalf. In that sense, the changes refer to foreigners, so that those foreigners who have residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or their headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia can carry out their own actions in front of the competent authorities. Also, I want to point out that this law and how the efficiency of courts is improved. Apart from the efficiency of the courts, the legal protection of those operators of industrial design has been improved, above all, in the fact that they are afforded the compensation of non-material damage, and that the court is obliged to value certain factors which are crucial for determining the level of compensation of immaterial damage. This certainly makes it easier for judicial authorities to work. What I also want to point out, and as regards the efficiency of the judiciary, but also to increasing the legal certainty of industrial designers, is certainly the adoption of a temporary measure. Namely, there were two institutes, which was the Institute of Security of Evidence which could be carried out without a party hearing, but also the Institute of Temporary Measures which could be filed before the action was brought, was not regulated in an adequate manner, or was not regulated to be implemented without a hearing of the opposing party. It is now clear and precisely determined that 10 days, but in order to avoid the abuse of this right, it is also clear and decadent that a deadline is set in which it is necessary to file a claim for the protection of this right, which is 30 days, because otherwise some individuals or groups could also abuse this right. What I also want to point out, which is about Article 403. The law on litigation is that the revision in these cases is possible until the judicial judgments are passed in the second degree. In this way, civil and legal protection of users, i.e. the applicant of industrial design, is surrounded somewhere. Agreements concerning the recognition of acquired education between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, in which all education is taxed, all technical arrangements, as well as professional names, on recognition of equivalence, should be commended in any case. This is one way of expanding and improving our co-operation on the educational and educational plan, and these agreements are also a good legal framework for further institutionalisation and further integration of our countries with both Macedonia and the Russian Federation in order to improve knowledge, acquired knowledge and calling. The Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day will support all of the above-mentioned laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28076	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28077	Dear President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a set of laws before us today. I will try really briefly to talk about the agreement, i.e. the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents, on acquired education and scientific names. At first, I would like to say that the very initiative to sign this agreement was launched by the Russian side in 2009, and that the agreement itself was signed on 10 April 2013. Of course, it's an agreement between the two friendly countries. There was a mutual desire to achieve full co-operation in the field of education and to respect international norms and the principles of recognition of the ICJ. The agreement itself contains 10 members and what is important I will point out in a few sentences. First of all, diplomas acquired in the Republic of Serbia and diplomas acquired in the Russian Federation give the right to those who own them to enroll higher education institutions in Serbia, or the Russian Federation, of course, with an appropriate profile and that this applies to all levels of education. It should be said that those who want to enroll in a higher education institution must meet the conditions for enrolment in the educational institution itself, and if they want to engage in professional activity, they must meet the conditions prescribed by the receiving party legislation. This Agreement should further set out Articles 3 and 7. It is noteworthy that diplomas on completed vocational studies, which is referred to by Article 3 of this Agreement, issued in the Republic of Serbia and a diploma on secondary vocational education, are equivalent in the Russian Federation. Then the degree in the acquired scientific calling of science doctors in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the doctor of art, is equivalent to a degree in science candidates in the Russian Federation. In the end, I would say that the realisation of all the activities related to this bill and this Agreement, I hope that in the day of voting and to confirm and vote, as well as these other laws that are on the agenda, will not produce any negative effects on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28078	The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28079	Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following our debate today are on the agenda of three draft laws. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design and the other two points are certain agreements. When we talk about the first item of the agenda that involves certain changes and additions, I must say that the protection of industrial design has been regulated by a special law and that is the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design since 2009. These amendments and additions to the laws, as we heard from the Honorable Minister above all, and then from fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, concern first certain terminologyal clarifications, because there were misunderstandings. In order for this law to be interpreted and implemented more effectively, it was necessary to address these termological misunderstandings with these amendments and additions. What is particularly important is civil and legal protection and these changes concern civil and legal protection, I would not repeat myself because we have already heard the details. This law, amendments and additions concern both precision and certain regulation with the EU, but this is another thing that this law adopts and that is public availability, description and presentation of industrial design, the scope of rights and the content of rights. We heard how important design is at all, and I would say that these amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Industrial Design Protection concern, above all, all legal and physical entities that are interested in protecting industrial design. Just to add that the realization of these changes and additions will not bear the additional costs of our citizens and businesses. As for two important agreements on mutual recognition of acquired knowledge in education and recognition of scientific academic titles, this concerns the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. The initiative came from the government of the Russian Federation in 2009, which is the mutual interest of the two governments. The co-operation has existed so far, but this agreement will further improve. We don't need to talk about how important our country's partner relationship with the Russian Federation is. Another agreement similar to the content concerns an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. Before I say anything about this agreement, I need to make my point on current events lately in neighbouring Macedonia, to support all efforts to prevent such unpleasant events. The agreement is another contribution of good co-operation between the two neighbouring countries. The initiative for this agreement was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in 2010 and will affect our bilateral relations and improve their quality. These agreements have more precise ways and content and co-operation. Finally, to say that, of course, I will vote in favour of all these laws, amendments and additions, as well as agreements together with all my fellow SNS deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28080	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Paulovina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28081	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, members of the ministerial team, honourable MPs, in my opening part of the exhibition, I will mainly commit to the amendment and addition of the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design, which is addressed to the Assembly procedure for adoption. I'd like to take the next one out. Given the fact that many individuals and businesses in Serbia do not have a very clear idea of the role and importance of intellectual property rights for everyday life and business, and that in regular business flows and did not meet these issues because they are businessly committed and occupied with other interests and businesses, in this regard, for the sake of the wider public, I would like to set out a number of relevant aspects concerning this area. The history of legal regulation of industrial design began in Europe in the mid-19th century and came from the idea of connecting artists with manufacturing processes in the area of industry. The aim of this integration is to simplify the process of production to achieve the greatest usability and functionality of the subject, with respect for the material from which these products are made. Basically, every innovation has an idea. The idea is always a starting point for something new and better. In this case, it's products. I would like to remind you of the words of the great humanist, novelist writer, drama writer, poet and politician of the Republican Maria Goo when he spoke to the MPs in his speech – what leads and draws the world is not locomotives, but ideas. From a legal point of view, we can call all the creation of the human mind an intellectual property based on the ideas of innovation and creativity of the human mind and spirit and it is the generator of its development that basically springs from the idea. In this regard, there was a need for legislation to regulate relations in this legal area in a way that respects the principles of absolute news that implies the availability of public industrial design anywhere in society, which imposes an obligation to adopt such an exception under the applicable rules and standards. Following the proposed amendments to this law, he would have previously noted that the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design came into force in 2009 and was the result of Serbia's overall integration processes on its way to the EU, harmonising regulations with EU regulations. This law, which follows in Article 1 of the Hague Agreement on the International Registration of Industrial Design, is in line with other provisions and regulations of the EU, Guideline 98 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Ministers, the European Commission's 2002 Regulation, etc. In Article 5, there is a change compared to the current law which is now in force, where the individual character of industrial design is specified by the external appearance of the product and its work defined by visual characteristics, three-dimensionally and two-dimensionally, lines, contours, colors, shapes, textures and materials of which the product is made up or decorated, as well as their combination with its external appearance. It's an important and overall impression that he leaves on the informed user. The subject of protection is industrial and craft products, from the pattern on the ceramic tile which I, for example, state, because there is one object in the Higher Economic Court that is being slowed down, to parts of large machines, engines, etc. Protection can also be sought by natural and legal persons, individuals or groups by enrolling in public books that have a constructive character. In a language sense, all registers which are available to each person without the need to prove legal interest in insight shall be marked. We do not have a built legal category of public books, which means there are no legal norms prescribed for public books in general, but there are special standards for certain types of public books. The importance of enrolment in public books can be different from constitutive to declarative when it represents only a record, not a basis for obtaining or ending rights. Article 8 regulates the restriction of the right to protect industrial design, which we have today had the opportunity to hear, in which it is prescribed that protection of industrial design cannot be carried out, whose external appearance of products is such that publication or use is contrary to public order and accepted moral principles. It's also new that it's Article 8a. the prescribed equalisation of foreign legal and natural persons with a domestic condition of reciprocity. With regard to the time period of protection, which we had the opportunity to hear, according to the applicable law, it lasted 25 years, now under this regulation, according to this proposal, the time limit is limited to five years which, with the additional payment of the corresponding fees, can be extended to up to 25 years every five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28082	Thank you. You haven't yet? I'm sorry, I can't hear you, so I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28083	When we talk about the description of the case in this law, one shift has been made, because it is unlimited exclusively to all elements, but to individuals that are different from the previous ones, which contributes to faster regulation and registration. As regards the rules concerning the case before the court, I think this is about one extensive regulation of the legal framework concerning judicial proceedings, including all the methods of trial in terms of emergency treatment in the case of temporary measures. The right to appeal shall be limited within three years of the date of knowledge of the infringement, and the objective period shall be five years from the date of the infringement, including in the judicial proceedings all forms of acquisition of the right to determine the infringement, prohibition of actions which protect the legal parties, compensation of property damage, publication of judgment, exclusion from legal traffic, etc. The law stated that it was an emergency procedure, which is a novelty compared to the previous one, because the backbone of all court decisions in these cases I consider to be related to the opinion of the experts or arise from the findings and opinions of the super-artisan that are necessarily being initiated in these proceedings. The Court of Justice has also been given special powers, that it has the right to impose third parties involved in the process of collecting relevant information and providing information which is a kind of principle of investigation, which completes one more effective protection of these rights against the competent authorities. I'd like to mention a member of 74. which the colleague mentioned, which is a revision which is allowed to be prescribed in other cases under the Law on litigation and Articles 44 and 103. The bill provides a significant contribution to creating more effective protection of rights in the area of industrial design than is the current law which, due to modern business movements, is not functional, overcome, thus the bill contributes to a more effective system of protection of industrial design creators' rights, which, thanks to the proposed newspapers, will provide itself with a higher level of protection of their rights. Consequently, this proposal changes and complements the more efficient and complete legal gaps in this field of intellectual property The proposal for a law fits into the existing pre-composition in the socio-economic and legal movement in Serbia, which is the product of new reform and modern political action. Due to an outright and general stance under this law, I call on MEPs to vote in favour of the law on the day of voting, which will be done by representatives of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28084	Thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic, and let Marijan Rističević prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28085	Today’s session of the congregation is unusual for many things and a new practice has been established, quite dangerous, which is that we are running out of laws. When we got the council there were two other draft laws that were first and second, probably by priority. One was the Law on Protection from the City, and the other the law on the amendment of the Law on textbooks and in a strange way disappeared. We've heard about this textbook law one two, three statements why, different and diametrically opposite, but regardless of what's not on the agenda, there's only one sentence about it. I think it's very important to pass the Law on protection against the city because it's an area that's completely undefined and that our farmers have great damage. It's simple to pass such a law. It's easy to create and apply, it just needs to exist and I don't understand why it's not there, and it's not even being called up for a new session that's scheduled for Tuesday. So it would be good for the authorities to investigate that mystery where laws disappear in Serbia. Now there are three laws that have survived that mystery of disappearing, and practically better not. If we allow these agreements with Macedonia and the Russian Federation to be a little illiterate and a little unspeakable, and let us say for the sake of greater interest, let them be adopted, and we will act as MPs of the New Party, and let these agreements be adopted, and they will probably be complemented by some changes, or perhaps in a legal-technical reaction they will also be described. The law on industrial design is a special case I think I don't need it, that it's better that it's withdrawn from the procedure or mysticalally disappeared than we're discussing today. Why? It explains that it is primarily changed because of the European Commission's directive. It's perfectly fine, but I don't think that these directives have been applied well and that these amendments that have been given in this law are even more complicated by the process of protecting industrial design itself, and somewhere there is a much greater chance, much greater conditions to be abused. Article 9, which some colleagues have already mentioned, which together with Article 8, are practically the basis of these complications. In Article 8, the last position says that industrial design cannot protect the appearance of a product whose publication or use is contrary to public order or to accepted moral principles. So moral principles are something valuable in one country, but they are immeasurable in law in court. They have to be precisely defined. Moral principles should be the most present in the monastery of any religion, especially in the women's monastery, but there's a keyboard there, and that's how you know who's doing what. So moral principles must be written. About the definition of public order, it's a special story I don't want to get into. In Article 9, an even bigger problem is that three last positions are deleted which voted not to protect the industrial design that represents, or contains a person's character, i.e. that it can only be protected if that person gives his consent, which is now deleted. That means someone can take our minister's character, make a product with it, and he can't stop it. Even worse, this design can now contain a dead person's image without the consent of parents, spouse, wife, or children. That means there's a great possibility of abuse of people who are part of our history. There is also a third position that says that now it is not forbidden to prohibit the design that represents, or contains a character of historical or other celebrities. We now have the creation, of these changes, by eradicating these three positions of members of the 9th possibility of mass abuse, of mass abuse of living, dead characters, to say ordinary or supposed historical figures. I think that's enough reason for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure with the same or stronger reasons why it happened to the Bookbooks Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28086	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28087	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I am obliged to say as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture that tomorrow we hold a session of the Committee dedicated to anti-urban protection, the protection of crops, so that we have not forgotten the law, and it has been delayed at precisely the request of farmers who are asking for it to be better completed and that the matter, with their participation, is being better engrossed, so that future local self-government and the Republic will be satisfied. These are the reasons why we as a Committee, at the request of farmers, asked for the law to be removed from the agenda, which does not mean that there is no existing law that regulates that matter. With that in mind, we will tomorrow process all the demands of farmers on the Committee on Agriculture. I also understand my colleague's concern, given that he was in agriculture, but he has no reason to fear, since he cashed in his vineyard, he got rid of it and turned it into an apartment worth 500,000 euros in Vrakar. So, if there's a town, there's no harm done to it. It'll be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28088	MP, I ask you to enter from the replica into matter, the Industrial Design Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28089	I'm trying to do industrial rocket design...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28090	Please try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28091	... And I'm trying to figure out the Industrial Design Protection Act from the law they were talking about. And you didn't react. They were talking about protecting intellectual property, which is not the subject of this law. This is the subject of the Special Rights Act in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. So they completely mixed both laws, and in doing so, one of the speakers was talking about protecting intellectual property instead of protecting industrial design is a doctor of law. Now as a farmer, I have to teach doctors the rights to speak entirely of the wrong law, and you are correcting me only because in a certain way I corrected from the speech of the previous speaker that I thought our citizens should know. As for the protection of the industrial designer, I also had practical experience with it from 2000 to 2003. It was about protecting the industrial design of the Montecarlo cigarette and it was about protecting the design of a cigarette called "Ronhil", which during the reign of my fellow farmer tried to cross it into Ronville, and in doing so the cigarette "Montecarlo" and Ronville had the same design, had the same look, had the same letters, had the same letters as cigarettes that were already registered abroad and whose owners of stamps, brands and designs could sue us for multimillion-dollar damage. Only after alarming the public and relevant professional services did I manage to refuse such an attempt to register such cigarettes within the government within the ministry and thus support the smuggling of cigarettes of those years and to cause damage for which the state of Serbia would certainly be sued. So there are also practical experiences that I have faced in the protection of design and this basic law of 2009 has been complemented by this 2009 amendment and addition of the Industrial Design Act and in a certain way guarantees to the authors of industrial design more rights, greater protection, by saying that industry as a branch of the raw materials industry, which has made products for broad consumption and products that have been the means of production almost disappeared thanks to the rule of those from 2000 to 2015. So, I don't know which industrial design, which industry we're going to protect, given the inherited situation, that the wild, predatory privatization of the workers is wiped out by the industry. Of course, I will vote in favour of this law, but it should be noted that both industry and workers have simply been cleaned out of Serbia as a tsunami, 400,000 jobs have disappeared. Instead of protecting industrial design and jobs, we at this point almost have no industry, since one savage privatisation was carried out that damaged all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the recognition of diplomas, since I have listened here to some doctors who mix basic laws, instead of the Industrial Design Act talking about the Law on Intellectual Property Protection, I am concerned about what the Russians will get in the possible exchange of expertise, academic titles and titles, since it is obvious that some doctors are only by calling doctors of law, and by intellectual abilities, they are far from it and I think they have to be careful when they consider the possibility of recognising certain doctorates, given that this is not a confirmation of a certain amount of knowledge, but a confirmation of certain amount of money and also political protection. That's why I don't give it the right for those who have salted our minds, mixed the laws, those who have doctoral titles, and in doing so, farmers train them to know and to know the laws and regulations, I think they're the last ones who can honor us, and I think many of them need to wish for good health and happiness, it seems too late for brains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28092	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28093	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, distinguished guests, respected citizens, I expected the minister to say at least something to the suspicions of my previous colleague who spoke of the lack of academic integrity when it comes to, I suppose, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state summit, that there are some who do not deserve it, and carry the calls of a doctor of science and others, have various degrees, but so much about the government's policy on this matter. What our authorised representative Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov said today was specifically addressed to Mr. Verbic, who avoided saying what our fundamental objections were, in fact, addressed to the minister, addressed to these laws, and therefore the minister kept quiet to the specific questions that Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov asked, not only Minister Verbic, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have a situation where, since it is on the agenda between the other and the draft legislation on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Macedonia and the Russian Federation, when it comes to the recognition of public documents on acquired education and scientific names, and when it comes to the recognition of public documents on acquired education and professional academic and scientific names, we have a concrete situation that concerns the interest of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Republic of Serbia does not recognise diplomas from Kosovo, which are, for example, Kosovo. garnered at one of the universities, private or state-owned, in Pristina, but also Macedonia recognises and noses such diplomas as a special subject, and on the other hand, we now recognise the very ones recognised by Macedonia by this Agreement. We've got a problem where he's sure to show up, for example. Perhaps even a tourist agency that will lead interested state or other officials to visit some of the sights of Kosovo and Macedonia from five to 10 days, and will also receive a degree at one of the private universities in Pristina, and will meet in Skopje a few days later to recognise that diploma, and then reach Belgrade in a few hours where the ministry will re-recognise those diplomas recognised by the Macedonian government. This channel, if built, through Morava and Vardar to Thessaloniki, will be able to carry out all of this on one cost through that channel by boat, sailboat, ship, etc. So we are interested in what your answer to this, for example, is a legal void, which you obviously did not take into account when you proposed today this law, which, however, you did not say a single word, but did not answer the questions raised by our authorised representative, or Mr. Zivkovic, who spoke on several occasions on this subject. When it comes to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, for example, not to mention the laws that you yourself have withdrawn and you haven't had a chance here today to say a single word about them, here I am now making the situation easier for you and asking you the next question. Legal protection of industrial design. You say it is very important through these changes and complements to bring this law into line with EU legislation, which is absolutely correct and of course we support you there. Then, you say that we amend certain provisions of this existing law and supplement them by amending them in accordance with EU directives. Also, in line with Serbia's negotiations on membership in the World Trade Organisation, which is not disputed either, but you yourself said one word in the light of this law and delivered it to us in writing somewhere. Here, on this occasion, if you will allow me, I will read this: “A further precision of the termological nature is being made, which is intended to enable its more precise interpretation and more efficient application. “ So, according to your court, this is the objective of amending and supplementing the law when it comes to the legal protection of industrial design, and I fully agree with it. However, in the law itself, in Article 7, I am trying for the fifth time to ask you the same question, as some of my predecessors did, in Article 7, I quote: “Industrial design cannot protect the appearance of the product, whose publication or use is contrary to public order or to accepted moral principles. ” I'm not sure I'll get an answer. I'm not even sure if you know how to answer this question. You can defend yourself with as much silence as you want. It is, of course, your right, but it also speaks of how much you are actually introducing double arches, although you are calling for the harmonisation of the existing law with EU directives. Here's why. Moral principles are not the same, nor are they in EU directives on Serbia, our society and the society of European states. For what? Well, academic honesty is one of the moral principles in the EU, but it's not in Serbia either. You know it best, because next to you in that government, there are colleagues who are very controversial from the point of view of academic honesty, and that doesn't bother you at all as a minister. So we do not have the same moral principles, Mr Verbic, we in Serbia and those in the EU. We advocate to bring these principles into line, that what moral principles are for the whole world, developed countries and societies, be moral principles in Serbia as well. It's a major and basic problem. You can propose whatever law you want and apply to European legislation, but unless you respect those moral principles recognised by civilizations, developed societies, every law will remain a dead letter to you on paper. With today's attention, and I'm sure not only after yesterday's events when you pulled the Law on textbooks out of the process, and not only when it comes to the strike of educators and the reduction of salaries in education, but also when it comes to this Law on the Protection of Industrial Design, you've had the opportunity to see, ministers, for the first time, after how long, I don't know how many empty benches of the ruling majority in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia and with what interest and attention SNS MPs have to you, according to your laws and your suggestions. After all that's happened in the last year, the only thing left to you, not to embarrass yourself until the end, is to resign, in addition to the kind of relationship that the ruling majority with these empty benches points to you. Although the opposition is such that always asking questions to you in some way gives you recognition and has a relationship with you as a minister, the ruling majority and MPs obviously do not. Learned texts by heart and recited by some papers are not enough for you to retain your authority as minister, so that the next day you will be ready to implement a truly reform of education as Serbia deserves, and younger generations in particular. We live in a country where over 75% of parents support their children's education and employment abroad. Among other things, that's your problem, because you are a resolutely in charge of the minister and in that area. We have situations today that parents are urging their children, if, of course, there is any option, and it is not material, that they are seeking scholarships and that they are fleeing Serbia, that education be the excuse number one, that finding a job is an excuse number two, that the establishment of a family and the future is an excuse number three. In this situation you are Minister of Education, you have not implemented a reform of education, you are objecting to educational workers on the streets, you are putting bad laws on time, you are withdrawing time from procedures, and you are allowing for a new purchase of diplomas from Kosovo and Metohija. It's all something that represents an unacceptable situation when it comes to our society, and your position as minister makes it unsustainable. I think it's primarily for your own good to resign as minister, because I don't think there's any...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28094	Mr. Bozovic, I'm asking you to come back on the subject. I think you can speak better of Belgrade than you are now fully off-the-book and refer to the minister for something that our guests in parliament don't deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28095	Thank you, Mr. Becic. After all the questions asked for the proposed laws in...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28096	Don't do it like that, don't go off topic, go back to topic, I'd ask you to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28097	As a People's MP, I have the right, based on the poorly proposed laws and poor conditions on these proposals in our country, to seek the resignation of the minister, as a MP and representative of the citizens. It's not out of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28098	You know how it's done, very well, you've been an MP in multiple convocations. You know how to do it, you know when you can do it, when you can discuss it. Please return to the topic now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28099	Thank you. When it comes to the attention with which we have listened today to all the bill's proposals, today it speaks enough about the credibility of your ministry when it comes to these bill proposals. In that sense, it's not the first time, but I'm sure it's the last place somewhere, that the Democratic Party's MPs on this subject will end up with you being sure to start the process when it comes to your resignation, first asking that question, and then entering a concrete procedure. Why? Because these things today are largely jeopardising the future of all those who still feel that Serbia has something to offer them. I think that while there is still time, you as someone who has run for moral principles here can, for example, show us a moral principle and resign. Finally, none of the proposed laws will get the support of our parliamentary club, for the simple reason of this change, not only are they not clear enough, but in no case will they take a single step forward for all those families, parents, who think their children have to leave Serbia as soon as possible, to school there and to work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28100	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28101	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Art. 106th and 107th. At the very least, Mr Bozovic's hypocritical behavior, which complains of empty benches, acts. If this criticism is addressed to his Democratic Party who, for days, weeks or so, not to say, and since the beginning of this call, has been disdaining the National Assembly by not attending the National Assembly, I believe it's an attempt of some virtual policy run by the Democratic Party, and something they say is not there, and something they don't have is said to have. At any moment in the National Assembly Hall, which cameras can see, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see, there are dozens of SNS MPs. The demeaning of the National Assembly when someone is using the lie, not to tell the lie, and it does so not only to you, Mr Verbic, not only to the chairman, Mr Becic, but also to the other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is hypocritical, Mr. Chairman, when someone cares about the fate of children, and they care about the fate of children who have burned our children's future through, say, five million more, who have only been kidnapped to renovate King Alexander's Street in Belgrade. They say and take care of the future of those who burned tens of millions of euros through Vojvodina Development Banks, through the Capital Investment Fund...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28102	I beg you, Mr. Granny...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28103	... through all the things Bojan Pajtic does today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28104	... do not use reporting after injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28105	I use life terms, which are national and which are citizens of Serbia, Mr. Chairman, under this authority of the Democratic Party, unfortunately. In Vojvodina today they live and feel. They worry about Serbia's future, those who have driven tens and hundreds of businesses through unfortunate privatisation, and left people out of work with robbery privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28106	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr Babiću, I do not think that at this point the Rules of Procedure was violated by the chairman, because I warned Mr Bozovic not to talk about the subject and that he could not in such a way abuse the parliamentary post, attacking the minister and speaking outside the topic, but Mr Bozovic understands it. He cannot say what he wants in the right way beyond the topic of Belgrade, so I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Mr. Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28107	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Unlike you, I don't think Mr Babic has even advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in that sense, I would like to point out that you have violated Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the way MPs, who want to show you that you have hurt the breach of the Rules of Procedure, should talk about it. Mr. Babic cited the pro-forms as members of the Rules of Procedure that he believes you have violated, and then replicated to Mr. Bozovic, speaking of some money that was robbed... (Zoran Babic, from the scene: So you admit they were robbed. )......................................................................................................... about the humiliation of citizens, about some citizens who unfortunately live, that's exactly what they're saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28108	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28109	... and said and I only ask you not to allow the peoples of the majority to abuse what they call a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to actually replicate the people's messengers. It doesn't take any great skill. That's what any of us could do if you allowed that kind of behavior. You know what your options are in case you notice that some MP abuses the breach of the Rules of Procedure and actually replicates instead of advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to take these business powers and resort, since we cannot work in the Assembly in which MPs of the ruling coalition are allowed everything and MPs of the opposition nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28110	Look, Miss Jerkov, you're wrong. First of all, I expected you, as a longtime MP, not to do what you just did, to abuse reporting for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I never interrupted you once, while I interrupted Mr. Babic and warned him that he was violating his report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as you reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure at the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I also believe you could not, but I patiently allowed you to explain why you think you should speak. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Yes) The word has Minister Dr Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28111	Thank you, Chairman. There have been, on several occasions, comparisons of the agreement with the Republic of Macedonia and the problems of recognising diplomas from Kosovo and Metohija. These two things are not in, not in a direct relationship, but in fact, a relationship. The reason I'm reacting this time is because we can't afford to talk about the educational system of our neighboring countries. This metaphor with tourist tours and the acquisition of diplomas in Macedonia is simply not something similar to this home, so I would like to pray that with a little more respect we treat the country with which we have just signed a diploma recognition agreement. When it comes to recognising diplomas from Kosovo and Metohija, the process was simpler while the European University Association had its own office in Pristina. Now this situation is different. Whether the material reasons are at stake or not, however, we're going to have to simplify that procedure and suggest another way to solve it. Whatever. All recognitions of diplomas for labour needs will be carried out by the ENIK/NARIK Centre which is established and which will work in full capacity from the first October. The ENIK/NARIK centre could work at this time, but we think it is much more important that employees at the Ministry now undergo adequate training and that the archives of previous recognition of diplomas from the university move to the Ministry of Education and Technological Development, so that we can talk competently and quickly about all requests for recognition of diplomas for employment. What is certainly in our interest, I think, is to show how quickly and efficiently we solve recognition problems, especially with neighbouring countries, and we will try to give it special importance, especially in the first weeks when the ENI/NARIK centre is working at full capacity. Once again, I repeat, it'll be October 1st, and that's exactly October 1st this year. As for the Industrial Design Act and the principle debate, I'm glad that came on the agenda. I see a number of times repeating and mentioning compliance with morals. This compliance with morality is certainly a very important topic, but it is mentioned only in one member of the law. I call on the MPs, if they think this has not been resolved in a good enough way, to propose an amendment. It's just one member of the law. We are very much working that, if there is a better formulation, and yet compliance with European directives, to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28112	Thank you, Mr. Verbich. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not in the O.R. Then there is Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. He's also not in the O.R. The word is by Dr Vladimir Orlic, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go. You called in the replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in response to the words we heard from the speakers in the order of those who spoke before these references to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, which was completely inappropriately mentioned by the SNS, its MPs and, as he said, a number of states and their interest in participating in today's debate. Totally inappropriate. Well, neither by grandmother nor by uncles, but by the justice of harsh mathematics. I would like to remind you that the total number of SNS MPs who have entered this National Assembly is eight to nine times larger than the total number of MPs of the Parliament group to whom the esteemed gentleman belongs, and if he looks at the number of MPs present in the hall now and looks at our number here, he has us, brother to brother, 25 times more than they do. As soon as the first of them gets out there, there'll be 50 times as many of us. So much for the relationship to this place right here. The most part of the work is what he said after. So, our carelessness, how can it be measured? By giving answers to everything he just repeated, what we heard in the first part of the session, and we were responding, and what he, of course, doesn't know, because he wasn't there, and he wasn't interested in finding out, nor do I believe he wants to understand at all. I don't even know what he wants, that I'm the falcon of these shows and I'm trying to be provoked? Second, by commenting that the minister did not say a word about any law. Where was the MP when this session began? I think that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dusko Radovic said those words – a message for those who want to change the world, let them change the lamp in the apartment first. So, let's start by ourselves first, so an esteemed colleague can look at his MP group first, but what's much more, much more important -- himself personally. The worst thing that happened today is him himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28114	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. You have one minute and 40 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28115	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, honored guests, MPs, respected citizens, today we are discussing four points of the agenda, from the proposed six that we have received. So, the bill of defense against the city was removed from the agenda, the draft law on textbooks also, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, I would not talk about it. My colleagues said a lot. Depending on the acceptance of our amendments will be our determination, Mr. Minister, whether we vote in favour of this bill. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and registration of public documents on professional education and scientific names, I do not think it is controversial and that you will likely receive support from our parliamentary group. But the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of public documents, etc., since I do not have much time, you have tried to explain something, either I did not understand it or you did not explain it well. The question was simple. We don't recognize diplomas at the moment, as far as I understand you, coming from Pristina University. I think I'm right, because we don't have an appropriate office that needs to confirm the credibility of possibly academic calling and ID, whatever you're using in the recognition of these diplomas. Macedonia recognises diplomas from Pristina University and the question was whether we would recognise the recognised diplomas of Kosovo University in Macedonia, Skopje?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28116	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28117	Are we going to confess or not admit it, or are we going to fence? If, I apologize, the chairman, it's very important if we fence ourselves, why don't you put it in an agreement so that diplomas from Pristina don't come out until the programmes are in sync...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28118	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. You have five minutes and 38 seconds. You don't want to. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. You don't want to. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go. He's like the last registered speaker. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28119	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard criticisms at the expense of these laws today, at the expense of Mr. Minister in particular, representatives of a Democratic Party. Mr. Verbić, you have settled in the ministerial chair at the most difficult time, the time in which the educational and educational process you have found full etatization, politicisation, red tape, antipedagogisation, commercialisation, sorosification, testomania, quasireforming, a wide field of corruption, inefficiency, poor and expensive textbooks. That's where you're sitting, and you're complaining about those whose ministers brought the education system into the situation we're in. So much for that. Dear People's MPs, I'll just say something about the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents and on acquired education and scientific names. Before that, allow me, Mr Minister, to tell you that this law, I also warn Mr. People's MPs and also the Serbian public, has its foothold in the exhibition of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whom he submitted to us, the MPs, in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April of the Lord 2014. Of course, let's not forget, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most comprehensive, most precise, most analytical and qualitative of all 72 previous exposés of the Prime Minister, since the time of Prime Minister Mateja Nenadovic, 1805, to this day. Ilithyi, the exposé is the most comprehensive, precise, largest, most analytical and concrete of all in Serbia's modern history. On page 48 of the said exposé, besides the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic said, "Serbia will never be able to give up friendship with the Russian Federation, and it would not be moral. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This bill is in the mutual interest of two friendly and brotherly countries. This friendship, respected MPs, was built on historical, cultural and spiritual ties. I'm going to say something short on this, so that we can understand why this law is very important and why I suggest we adopt it unanimously, both the position and the opposition. The Russians in Serbia, architects, artists, scientists, literally rebirthed Serbia and left an extraordinary mark, making a major contribution to the development of Serbian science, Serbian university, ballet, opera, architecture, heraldics, if you will, and comics. King Alexander and Karadjordjevic was considered a friend of the Russians. With his support and Serbian patriarch Varnava, the Russian home, the oldest cultural centre in Belgrade, opened in 1933. Let me remind you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are 64 Russian homes in the world, but it is only Belgrade-based for the gathering of Serbs and Russians. Some of the most beautiful buildings, if you want houses, have just been designed by Russian architects in Belgrade. By 1925 17 Russian schools worked in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. Serbs and Russians as two peoples have never been in a war conflict. I repeat again -- Serbs and Russians as two peoples have never been in a war conflict. On the contrary, many Serbs, threatening and following a sign of Orthodox religion, fled the union and settled in the 18th century two areas in Tsar Russia, Novaja Servija and the Slavic Serb Republic. Furthermore, Russia was Serbia's only foreign political ally from 1804 to 1813, so during the Karadjordjev uprising. Dear People's MPs, Petar the second Petrovic, sent to Peter Cetinjski – praying to God and sticking to Russia, was held in St. Petersburg by the ruler of Montenegro and the hills on 6.3.1833. About 20,000 volunteers from Russia participated in the 1876 Serbian-Turkish war, of which 1,000 officers. In the Balkan wars, the Russians were in Serbian ranks the day after the Austrian ultimatum to Serbia in 24.7.11914, Serbian King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic asked Russian Emperor Nikola other Romanov, who sent a famous response in 27.7.11914, quoting Russia in no way will leave Serbia. It's a finished quote. Russia's role in World War II is immeasurable over 26 million lives of the Russians gave life and freedom from fascism and built their lives into the foundations of freedom, and each third and fourth Serbs, respectively, built into the foundations of freedom, and for Belgrade's freedom gave 1,000 lives to the Russians. We and the Russians are nations of the same root, of the same blood, of the same faith, of almost the same letter, of the same language, and that connects us. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the famous Dositej Obradovic was the source of attempts to reverse the spiritual life of the Serbian people in a Central European, pro-Western direction. He's a counselor, he's a Westerner, he speaks several languages. He admires English culture, he claims that English women are the best women in the world, and as soon as he crossed Serbia after he called him, who was, as you know, prone to Austria, told him, quote - turn to Russia. It's a finished quote. Dear People's MPs, in order to understand this agreement, the background, I must tell you that what you know about Russia is a great country. It's a great Russian culture, science, literature, it's a great Russian education. Serbia is a small country, but has great culture, great literature, great science and education. They persecute, supplement. How much really Russian culture and Russian education and literature are great, let them illustrate these words that I am about to say. If the world's painting were to be removed from Russian painting, the world would be darkened. If Russian music were removed from world music, the world would be deaf. If Russian literature were removed from world literature, the world would fail. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Serbia should adopt this law on certification and we MPs, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Russia on mutual recognition of the equivalence of public documents and on acquired education and in scientific names, as it will benefit the most from two brotherly peoples, two states and two intellectual elites. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, especially from the opposition benches, to vote for this law, because at least a little, even so, you will contribute to the affirmation of mutual friendly relations between Russia and Serbia, and as a former regime you have not done so at an envious level, and speaking of this country in these benches, in this National Assembly, that the former MPs have been working with the gobbery. You will also contribute in this way to the modernisation of Serbia, which is working well with both the east and the north and the south and for which the Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the state of Tomislav Nikolic, most of the MPs in this high house and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are going to contribute. In the end, Mr. Minister, you're wrong about those who tried to criticize you today. So first, because you put order into inspection, and the previous four ministers didn't. Because you, Mr. Verbic, have introduced order among the chiefs of the school boards, and the previous four ministers are not. Because you, Mr. Minister Verbic, have introduced a systematization of jobs in your ministry, and the previous four ministers are not. Because you, Mr. Verbic, have prevented red tape from one part of corruption in higher education, depicted almost in the violent desire of the Dean's third term, and yet you have prevented it. And, Mr. Verbić, you have prepared an extraordinary debate on the Law on textbooks, thorough with all subjects and I hope that we will soon consider it in this Assembly and that it will be a great defense for corruption in education and education. In the end, I must say this sentence, thanks to you, Mr. Minister, and also to this Assembly and Madam President, and to the chairman, you have provided the legally formed National Council for Higher Education, because the predecessors did not do so, because in the national councils, and you know it, were those who were not really allowed under the law. In the end, you provided the legal procedure for the transparency of study and the defence of doctoral studies, which indeed the previous four ministers did not want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28120	I thank you, MP. There are no more logs on the lists. Is anyone answering by article 96? Rules of Procedure? The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28121	Thank you, Madam President. So, the shortest recapitulation of the situation, I would like to thank everyone who participated in today's debate and reiterated that since all the objections we have heard in the meantime are, in fact, part of what we have provided the answers to in the first part of the debate, and in that sense, I repeat the call to the distinguished colleagues that if the content of Article 2 continues to be disputed, The agreement we have with the Republic of Macedonia and which we will believe to adopt. On the other hand, those who have expressed some coldness in terms of public order and morality many times today and after the answers we have provided, to look at the text of the law that we are changing the amendments to the laws, to find Article 9 and to look at point 1), a little help on my part, everything is on page 29 of the material that we have. It will be more than clear that nothing new is introduced with this kind of formulation. She already exists right where I just said. There is a law published in the "Official Messenger" under regular number 104/09, so let's guess what year it was and whether it's only the one who hasn't read it now, I can only conclude who doesn't know what's in the material that we're discussing today, but unfortunately we haven't seen many of them stop to give themselves the right to discuss. I also remind my colleagues that they are a direct consequence of the European Commission's recommendations on the composition of Article 9, i.e. erasing the latest views. Those who have pointed to this as a potential problem have voiced support for the European Commission's recommendations by calling for consistency, may that be no reason not to vote together in the end for this bill. Finally, seeing as he's not here again, if someone accidentally meets a colleague who today has tried to make up for everything else, those words that he won't vote for these laws, none of them, they should be honored today along with all these things I've mentioned, which show not only that he didn't understand anything, but that he didn't even read. Once again, to each and every one of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-13-0.u28122	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a common principled and unique search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2, 3 and 4, it seems to me, or 1, 2 and 3, depending on how it is now numbered in the consolidated agenda. We still have time to move on to these staff issues, which is the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the motion for a decision taken by the DS parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups to sign up for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want to discuss this? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Another staff issue, Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. You received a motion for a decision, which I, as president of the National Assembly, made on 7 May 2015. Please, if you have not already done so and have not, please report to the MPs immediately for the discussion. I guess you don't want to. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. As a proposer, I have nothing to add, except for what I wrote. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. This is what we've done today's work. We'll proceed to the amendments Friday at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 94 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 117 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dejan Radenkovic and Stefana Miladanovic. We move on to a search in the details of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
