ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31785	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the number of Members of the People's Parliaments' presence, I find that the meeting is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 117 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Marko Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31786	Thank you, Mr. President. I would take the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister a question. Will it prevent a harmful job that the Ministry of Mining and Energy intended to do? On July 8th, less than a week old, the Ministry of Mining and Energy launched a negotiating procedure without publishing calls for the supply of fuel for the job reserves, which is foreseen only by the 2015 budget for 6.8 billion dinars. The terms of the contract are, on the basis of which they should be answered, on which a call was sent to the seven addresses to answer the following. To fuel, 12,000 tons of gasoline and 28,000 tons of diesel per month, obtain optional and warehouses in Germany. This job in three years, as foreseen by this tender to be agreed, is, I say, only for this year 6.7 billion dinars, and if this is projected for three years, it is a sum of over 150m euros. The ministry made a call to seven companies. Five are large-scale companies, Shell, Total, Exxon Mobil, British Petroleum Europe and OMW. And that makes sense somewhere. But calls were made for two companies. One is called Euro-New Energy, the other is called Coal Energy from Cyprus. Euro-Nova Energy was registered last year in Geneva, as the daughter of Euro-Nova Energy d.o.o. from Novi Sad, which exists for three years and which, according to the latest APR data for 2013 had a business income of slightly less than 12 million dinars and a profit of less than two million dinars and four employees. Now the company is calling for more than 150m euros in fuel supply. The call for public procurement without publication with direct negotiation is referred contrary to the law. The law on public procurement and the opinion of the Ministry of Emergency when the way the law is interpreted, when and in what conditions an emergency procedure can be used and a reference to publication of public procurement without publication with direct negotiation. In the way this deal is foreseen by the contract, all domestic companies have been eliminated. Fuel storage is scheduled in Germany. This fuel will also be paid for storage fees, and the companies in this short time period are completely unrealistic to expect large world firms to report within five days on a job like this, so it is clear that this job is intended for a particular company. I call on the prime minister to do something to prevent this eclectic example of corruption and abuse. We ask the question – why is the negotiation procedure used without publication when there are no legal conditions for it? Why are all domestic companies being discriminated against? Why is it that at a time when the price of oil is on the world market, today it's a little over 52 dollars, means almost at some record minimum, why aren't derivatives processed in Serbia stored here in Serbia? Why was an invitation also sent to the addresses of these two phantom companies that have been doing business for over a year and have no traffic, and I don't know how they can qualify for a job like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31787	Time. Thank you. Thank you. Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31788	My question has been addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, since our country has long been without ambassadors, and some of them contain diplomats whose mandate has expired, I believe that, and we will probably agree that it is unacceptable in some countries for more than two years that Serbia does not have its representatives in the rank of ambassadors. It actually sends a bad message to these countries and others. Let's say, if this country is an EU member, that we are not interested in intensive diplomatic relations, it makes it difficult for our diplomatic consular representations to work, it also creates the impression that we do not have adequate personnel solutions, i.e. that it is impossible to reach an agreement within the government or on the relation of the Government -- the President of the Republic on these appointments that are really necessary, because of the total 69 of our embassies in the world, Serbia currently does not have ambassadors in 17% of the embassy, or in even 12 countries. These are Germany, Croatia, Argentina, Greece, from EU countries, and then we have no representatives in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Syria, Iran, Ghana, Indonesia and Qatar. Let's say, since July 2013, the then Serbian ambassador to Berlin, Ivo Viskovic, has been recalled, we do not have an ambassador in this country. In Zagreb, we have not had an ambassador since October 2013 when Stanimir Vukicevic, who has been in Sarajevo, has been recalled from that post. So, in these countries, we are represented by job messengers, but they have a limit in their work, given that job messengers cannot accept the president of the state or foreign ministers. In six countries Serbia's ambassadors, they were not replaced by a new one, which is Norway, Cyprus, Albania, Cuba, Libya and Poland. So my question to the foreign minister is, when will new ambassadors be appointed in these countries? Regarding this question, and how many ambassadors and consuls have met the condition of going to retirement and when will they be replaced by new ambassadors? Also, the question addressed to the foreign minister is, how many Serbia currently has economic advisers in our diplomatic and consular representations around the world? In 2010, when they went to work, there were 28 of them. In the meantime, some have been returned to the country but I am particularly interested in the effects of their service? Were they by any chance higher costs for their salaries, for housing, for transportation, for schooling children and for the other costs of the effects that they have achieved by attracting investments from the countries where they are located, into our country? We know well that it was the initiative of the then Minister of Economy, Mladjan Dinkic, to name them so-called. "economic advisors" at our embassies and consulates. Unfortunately, now, five years later, when their impact is subdued, we come to the conclusion that the results of their work are minor, that some have practically not brought any investors into Serbia. I've seen some reports they've been sending, so some of our representatives have been instructed to do visits, wine fairs, or one of their main activities was to monitor the daily press. It's also interesting that many of these so-called. "economic diplomats" were not economists by profession but lawyers, philosophers, philosophers, psychologists. What concerns, however, is that only their salaries amounted to a million and 800 000 euros annually, that their salaries ranged from 2,600 euros to even 4,600 euros, that some 300 000 euros per year from our budget were allocated to their housing costs and that they were determined to represent us in Moscow, Berlin, Munich, Stuttgart, Rome, Milan, but some did not achieve almost any effects. To mention that there is almost no investment from Macedonia where we were represented in Skopje or in Kiev or Podgorica, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31789	Time, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31790	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31791	Anyone else want to ask a question? (Yes) The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31792	I thank the president. Serbia does not give up regional co-operation and reconciliation, but Serbia does not give up seeking information from Sarajevo, or Bosnia and Herzegovina for an investigation into the attack on Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, on July 11th in Potocari. My question is addressed to all competent institutions in the state of Serbia. To what extent is the course of the investigation monitored? What information is being obtained and what information has been received so far, as it has been 72 hours since the attack on Serbia's prime minister and delegation in Potocari on July 11th? We have information that only one person has been arrested. We still don't know what the motives of the attack were, how many people were involved in this, why was the passage of the Prime Minister and the delegation cut short, why the fence wasn't repaired? So we're asking Parliament for information from our competent institutions on the course of the investigation. With the responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sarajevo, we must not give up until we have received complete information, because I believe there have been a lot of apologies, convictions, excuses and transfers to each other. Republika Srpska's interior ministry has filed a complaint against nn persons and has begun to conduct, I would say, a separate investigation. Thank them for that, but they're not responsible for the attack that happened because they didn't have jurisdiction. This is the responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in order to carry out the investigation and obtain information as soon as possible and to include the international community as it takes to get full information as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31793	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31794	Thank you, Madam President. First question for Prime Minister Vukic. Mr Vucic said in a statement in the list "Today" in May 2013 the following – the Law on the Origin of Assets will be adopted by 15 June 2013. This was two years ago and no law on the origin of property has been passed, my question is when will the government adopt the Bill on the Origin of Assets and when will it be delivered to the Serbian Parliament and will the law cover all related persons with whom this law would apply, not just marriage mates and children? The next question for Zorana Mihajlovic to tell us exactly when will Corridor 11 be completed because this corridor awaits and awaits all of Western Serbia? They have high hopes that the completion of Corridor 11 will improve the economic situation and employment in that part of Serbia, and since we have heard for months about great progress and progress on the construction of this highway, we would like to hear with precise deadlines and data from Ms. Mihajlovic when exactly and in what extent will it be completed or which part of Corridor 11? Next question for Minister Vujovic and Minister Sertic. Since the new government has abolished the exemption of businesses from paying taxes, if profits are used for investment, is there any consideration of revising this decision and allowing those who invest in investment in investment jobs to get a certain tax exemption if we know that up to 10,000 euros per job is allowed for foreign investors, why is the same not possible for our businesses? A question for Minister Udovicki, what will and will do in the future about the specific case of the city of Nis which has increased the price of heating in the city of Nis, leading to the protest of the citizens of Nis in front of the municipal heat and to see how this practice in Serbia will in future prevent any local self-government in which the Progressives can rise prices in the sky for all possible municipal services and lead to the situation that, as in Nis, citizens will rather exclude themselves from the heating system than to endure such a thing after private perpetrators are now working overtime. It is the only branch in Serbia that works overtime and seizes the property of Serbian and Nis citizens are rightly concerned that this will happen to them too? A question for Minister Vulina, how, by what specific measures do you think you are increasing the employment of Serbian citizens who are already getting unemployment today in Serbia, regardless of your falsified statistics and how in the coming period, what concrete measures and within what time do you do something to get Serbian citizens busy without being over the ruling party's membership card and not in the JP or JP you control? The next question is for Minister Sertic, Minister Vujovic and Minister Vulin, how do you think you can solve the situation with over 50,000 non-paying employees and working in Serbia today, and how do you think both by means and how do you solve the problem of late payment in the private sector for more than 600,000 employees, since the endemic pays them late every month? So how are you going to solve the inequitableness and general non-payment that exists today in Serbia? The question for the interior minister is – what is done specifically, what are the measures and when will be the results for solving the numerous murders that have taken place, especially in Belgrade in recent days, and when will the handsome young perpetrator of the assassination of Milan Bek be revealed, as Minister Stefanovic said? A question for Minister Ljajic, the Association of Consumers of Serbia, said food from March to June has collected 4% on a 54-food sample this year. That's about 200 dinars more for the consumer basket. The most usually paid in Nis, 1,060 dinars for flour, sugar, rice, pasta, pasta, pasta and oil. How do you think and how do you solve this problem and the fact that our food in Serbia has accumulated, that you have reduced wages and pensions, that unemployment is growing? So, what will Mr Ljajic do and whether he is considering reducing VAT on basic food products and whether the IMF and foreign creditors and banks will allow him, as well as this government, which is unable to solve Serbia's endemic problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31795	Time. Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31796	Thank you. I would like to ask a question for the province's Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic and the president, for the time being, the current Democratic Party president, I do not know how much longer he will be in the post. The AP government's competition to allocate funds to public works in the Vojvodina territory has allocated certain funds, funds from Serbian and Vojvodina citizens to certain associations, groups, initiatives to the close regime of Bojan Pajtic and the Democratic Party. Some associations were founded two days before the public competition was called, so they received 119 million dinar funds. For example, the citizens' initiative "Uzdin" received 950,000 dinars and was founded two days before the competition was called. A large number of these associations, it turns out that the link directly to the Democratic Party, to Bojan Pajtic, and that she financed the Democratic Party, so I'm interested in where the money of Serbian citizens that was so easily shared by Mr Bojan Pajtic went? Also, I would ask for malfeasances with the construction of Kamenica 2 and the acquisition of the apparatus, where a series of tenders fail, while the people on the lists die, sick people waiting for the province's power to be installed in the purchase of the apparatus, so that some of them close to them take some money, in order to succeed in financial support while people die, and Serbia is the first in Europe on dying lists. We all know the situation in Kamenica, at the Institute of Oncology in particular, but the regime of Bojan Pajtic, who for 15 years is ruling the Vojvodina, successfully draws the funds of Serbian and Vojvodina citizens and takes funds from citizens, so that he will fill his pockets and pockets of his party comrades, so I am interested in where the money taken from the citizens of Serbia and Vojvodina in all these competitions, in all these tenders that he has not acted as a good host of Mr. Bojan Pajtic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31797	Thank you. Does anyone else want to exercise their right under Article 287? Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan Sutanovac, Vladimir Pavicevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Milana Ćorilić, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurovic. We continue to work and move on to the principle search of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending Law on the Laws of the Police pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Interior Minister Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary Milena Vukovic, Interior Minister Natasa Milidragovic, legal adviser for normative affairs at the Ministry of the Interior Secretariat and Milan Andric, chief police inspector at the Criminal Police Administration. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Police Act. Does the proposing official, Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31798	Dear National Assembly Presidents, honourable MPs, the MUP has been working intensively throughout the year to prepare a new Police Act, which is currently being translated for the purposes of sending to the European Commission. Since the preparation of a comprehensive law, which in a comprehensive way regulates the internal affairs area, a long process that is being carefully implemented, has shown the need to address some of the current problems facing the ministry's amendments and additions to the current Police Act. We believe that the adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the Police Act contributes to the greatest extent to legal certainty, as well as the security of citizens and property, the protection and discovery of missing persons, the effectiveness of work, better defining the organisational structure and improving the governance process. The draft law is motivated by the needs of the Ministry of Emergency Response in relation to the need to prescribe a legal basis for police handling in situations of increased risk, the adoption of a part of Tijana's law, as well as the implementation of the rationalisation measure in the engagement of human resources. What attention is paid to building this system is also the fact that the education of the human resources sector is under way, which will have a career advancement and monitoring of employees from the moment of working relationship, within the ministry, until the end of their working age in the MUP. The Human Resources Sector, in coordination with other organisational units, creates and implements a strategy for the development of human resources in the MUP. The sector takes care of the application of the system's measures in the field of employment, promotion, creation and implementation of the system for assessing the performance, development and maintenance of the human resources information system, development and monitoring of quality indicators of the impact of employees and the organisation itself. We believe that functional integration of human resources management will contribute to better exploitation of existing human capacities in the ministry, as well as the availability of a wide range of specialist skills applicable to specific tasks. Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law, in addition to establishing a legal basis for the education of the Human Resources Management Organisation, is also educated in the sector for international co-operation, European affairs and planning, which it organises, analyzes, plans, proposes and implements the work of the Ministry in the field of international co-operation, European integration, then strategic planning and project management. The sector is responsible for planning and organising the process of European integration, management in the directions and objectives in the priority areas of the work of the MUP in general in the affairs of European integration, planning and management of projects financed from EU funds and other international sources and other international co-operation activities. Reasons for proposing Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Police Law was also contained in recent developments in the Republic of Macedonia. When there were indications that public order could be violated in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there were some threats and terrorist attacks. In the emerging situation, which in its legal nature does not imply the declaration of state of emergency, the necessity of creating a legal basis for the work of the MUP in changed circumstances has been observed, and based on this Police Act. Followingly, the provisions on the engagement of special forces have also suffered changes. The units are defined and prescribed, a way of recruiting them, which implies the approval of the police director and the consent of the minister. The reason for this member's change is also the change concerning special and special police units. So far, we, as you know, had a special anti-terrorism unit, a counter-terrorism unit and a gendarme, as well as a helicopter unit and a special anti-terrorism unit and anti-terrorism units essentially had the same task with something different. We today, considering what is needed by the Republic of Serbia, what is effective and what is going to make our units more efficient, better, more ready for different challenges, we consider it better to have one special unit of this kind and we propose to abolish the anti-terrorist unit, and the fact that they're going to be called the Special Anti-terrorist Unit for a unit that will form, which is going to become not in some spectacular way, but by just having these people who are the best, and all those people who have shown the best results, those people who have the best results, which are the best in all the tests, and we're continuing to carry them out, in the last year we've had at least four or five extraordinary checks, so, all those people who have shown the best results, they will be members of the new special anti-terror unit. The other people will be redistributed to other special units that we are predicting by this law. We will only have one special and special unit, as foreseen by the amendment and supplementation of the Law before you. It would be a kind of rationalization, one of the kind of separation of that unit that we think should be the bearer of and the most difficult and the greatest fight against terrorism and some of the most significant challenges, and we leave it as special units of police and gendarmes and helicopter unit and police brigade. As a newspaper, we introduce the termination of the existence of the Security Authority, which becomes a security unit, because of the specificity of their work, and precisely because of the formation of certain specific forms of organisation within the security unit, such as "K" teams, which the current administration cannot in such a way form, and the unit will be able to form, as well as the acceptance of other people who, over time, have no more conditions to be part of special units, or special units, but can be part of the security units in such a way. So we adapt to more modern conditions the new organisational structure of the Ministry of the Interior. The units will be more efficient in carrying out their tasks and we choose the best, not the ones that are in some period, so they should stay up to a certain number of years in those units, but until the moment they meet the conditions needed for special units. Our goal is also to reduce costs, more adequate use of human resources, which will be possible through this way of organization. Article 4 in its essence is a legal basis, it is a continuation of "Tian's Law", that police can react in those cases when a person is reported missing, and that is what we have suggested, that this is not only about minors but about any person, when we can assume that the disappearance is due to the execution of a criminal offence. From that moment on, the police start looking for a face right away. I'm fully aware that this is not the only possible thing to do, but it's the only possible through the Law on the Police Department, and we're talking to our colleagues on how to speed up the process of requesting data, how to look for phone records, how to look for profiles on social networks, how to look for all the data that the court has to grant us, to shorten time between the police and the court. Of course, the court will give the final word. Now that the prosecution is leading the investigation, a competent prosecutor is informed, the prosecutor is assessing and giving the order, the court's request for a measure, the court approves its order, and it is sometimes too long. We're gonna try to figure out how to speed up these processes, and that's the job we're gonna do with the Justice Department, because they're in charge of this. However, the Ministry of the Interior and now, and without this law, on the ground, from the first moment the search is done especially for minors, and for any other hypocrite suspected of the cause of disappearance being committed, we begin the search at the same time, not for one single second. This is important to introduce as a paper into the law, it is important that it exists and it is important that it exists as a commitment, not a goodwill to anyone on the ground. Article 5 The law lays down the legal basis for carrying out security checks at the request of other authorities and legal entities which have been missing from the time of entry into force of the rules laid down in the jurisdiction of other national authorities, which are intended to carry out a security assessment in order to carry out certain tasks. According to the law on police, security measures are being carried out for candidates to establish a working relationship in the MUP, for candidates for the Centre for Fundamental Police Training, as well as for other cases, but not those foreseen by new laws. So, here we agree with all the new laws that have been passed, and where there is a legal basis for other persons, detective agencies, private security companies, customs administration, tax administration, in accordance with the law, to be able to request certain security checks and that the MUP can then carry them out in accordance with the law and in a way that will be provided for by sublaws which will define the order of all these moves. Article 6 creates a basis for the retirement of a number of job employees who are deployed and who cannot give the expected results due to previous decades of engagement in jobs that require extraordinary psychophysical efforts. It's about people who have 52 years of age and at least 30 years of experience in high-risk jobs and, of course, with risks and have a fact-finded job experience in that period. So, those who worked on police business with insurance, that is, increased internship, where the increased USO-1 internship to USO-4 counts. We don't have USO-4 anymore. So, we've had it since the previous changes, a few months ago, in April of the month, which we've achieved and certain savings at the Ministry, while USO-1 as the highest degree of the benefits have divers, or, say, special forces working only in this business. So, a very small, limited number of people. But this is about people who spent their entire working life on specialized jobs and assignments, defending the country wherever the state asked them to. They haven't spent most of their days in the station or doing regular police work, and now at 52, these people need to learn two years before regular retirement to do police work at the station, to go to courses, training that will last a year, and to retire after a year. In this way we try to show respect for these people, to give them full pension, to retire without any reduction on the basis of the need for service, but also to thank for all that they have done for the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of the Interior, as well as for those people who have already met some criteria for retirement in previous years. We have people who have certain medical diagnosis. We have people who can't carry out their duties for different reasons, and they can't solve their working-law status differently. In this way we will help their retirement to be dignified and the Ministry of the Interior be able to make younger people more able to fill their jobs. It will be several hundred officials, which is 35,000 members of the interior ministry, not a significant number of members of the ministry, but will certainly free up space for easier coordination of work. This is what we have briefly prepared for these amendments and additions of the law. As far as the new law goes to the police, I think it's a topic that certainly interests citizens and MPs. The new law on police is largely over. I brought along a copy of the law. So he's in the Draft completely done. We've taken a little while, which is not a big deal, given that we've been working under this old law for years, and it's mostly not a match until now. It took us more time than I planned, to discuss this law with professional associations, with trade unions, with an international factor, with the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, with the Council of Europe, with everyone in our ministry, with all the lines of work and the interested public. We've had more public debates, and it's been going on for several months and we wanted that, when this law is passed, it's something that we're not going to change often, something that will in a comprehensive way predict all changes related to the work of the Ministry of the Interior. Appreciation is also given to those MPs who have helped to improve this law with their opinions, suggestions, and suggestions. As far as the deadlines are concerned, I can't say the exact day, because it depends. We're ready. It is being translated at the moment and we are sending this bill to the European Commission. Following the opinion of the European Commission, the Ministry of Interior will send it to the government, and will then be in front of the National Assembly. This bill will be discussed in a regular procedure and we will insist that it be the longest possible deadline for all MPs to have time to get to know each other. Of course, as soon as we send it to the European Commission, we will also publish on the Ministry's website as we have done so far and all MPs, but also the interested public will be able to read it on the MUP site, as well as, of course, prepare for the debate in the parliament that will be, depending on the comments the European Commission makes on the draft law. So, we expect it to be, we in the Action Plan for Chapter 24 envisioned it to be by December 2015. So anyway before that deadline, I'm thinking of the fall, but I'm sorry we broke a little longer than those deadlines we set ourselves. We have no obligation to anyone to have it a day earlier, since I've heard some comments about how I said it would be I don't know this month, why it's late. Sorry, those are the deadlines we gave ourselves. We've done more work than others. This is not an obligation in any way to bring in any month. We've given ourselves an obligation to bring it to December. It is an official obligation of the Republic of Serbia through the Action Plan. By that deadline, it will be passed, but it is much more important than any date to make it a quality law that will allow the MUP to be more effective than it is today. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that in today's debate, we will have the opportunity to talk about these six points that we have discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31799	Thank you. The first speaker is Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31800	Dear ministers, respected presidents, colleagues and colleagues, the SPO DHSS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act because it is the Ministry's intention to improve the security system. We live in a country that has felt strongly the consequences of the 90s wars and that has faced many truths that have been covered up by the former regimes. Conflicts in the area of former Yugoslavia have reflected on Serbia by increasing the crime rate, and many generations have been raised to hate their neighbours. The weapons brought from the military hotspots also increased the risk rate. Today, we are building a Serbia that provides an arm of reconciliation to neighbours, who are facing the future and the final attack on the prime minister during a memorial ceremony with victims in Srebrenica will not hesitate only the correct commitment and policy of peace. It is very important because of the overall situation to know that in Serbia everyone can feel protected, that our country will not allow extreme groups or anyone else to endanger the safety of people who do not like them because of their national or religious background. To create a chance for a safe life in an orderly society where the law is strong enough to deal with the global threat of terrorism, hatred, the idea that force can achieve something is one of the most important tasks of this country. In one part, the law changes to prevent organised action and stands in the way of a common goal of certain extreme groups to bring Serbia back to the 90s. We are witnessing that these groups are well organized and that violence is trying to prevent the modernisation of our society, to oppose reconciliation policies, to oppose our efforts to become part of the EU and to create conditions for a better life in these areas. Professional solutions involved in solving these security problems should have the support of the public and parliament. Security risks are multiplied from day to day because much of the modern world is at war. Serbia is a transit station for many who run away from conflict, from poor living conditions in their countries. I'd like to say something again about inherited problems. Criminal groups, their leaders and members don't choose funds to come up with money by selling drugs or some other illegal activities. Before and after October 5, some of them became untouchable. To remind us that we are the country where Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was assassinated. We are the country where her former president Ivan Stambolic was killed. We are the country where Slavko Curuvija, Dada Vujasinovic, Milan Pantic, Judge Nebojsa Simenovic, was killed. We are a country where the assassination of Vuk Draskovic was tried twice. Four high-ranking SPO officials were killed at Ibarska masteral. Many members of our party were killed, beaten and all orders for the killing and beating up of political insinuators, journalists, were executed through official state authorities. So reforms are necessary and SPO supports. The reorganisation of the Police Directorate on and Chapter 24 of the negotiating process aims to bring our security system in line with the security systems of Western countries and to raise standards in the field of more efficient policy functioning and functioning. Terrorism is one of the greatest threats to the security of the entire world. No one feels safe anymore. Our police only through co-operation with other countries' police can provide an adequate response to ensure the safety of their citizens. In this context, structural reforms need to bring our police into line with EU standards. I repeat once again that the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31801	The word has Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31802	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like firstly to commend, on behalf of the SVM Group, the efforts made by the MUP for its fundamental work on the new Police Act, with respect to the opinions of all relevant actors, including the Council of Europe and the OSCE and the expert public. We are very pleased to hear from the Honorable Minister that the new Law on Police, Draft or Prednart, as you have called it, is in the final stage of preparation and that he will, in the near future, take an opinion to the European Commission. However, it is undeniable that due to certain circumstances in certain areas that require genuine urgency in acting, there has been a need to amend and supplement the existing Law on the Police today. These aren't big changes, though. You've explained it very closely. It is only a few members, but it is good that these changes, which will certainly be contained in the new Police Act, are in some way also a preparation for these reforms that are under way and for the application of the new Police Act that is expected for several months in the near future. In my address, I will base myself on just a few, not all changes, but three that we consider to be the most significant. One of the main reasons for the adoption of this law on changes and additions to the Police Act is the creation of a necessary legal framework for police handling in a state of increased public security risk, i.e. in the safety of citizens. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians considers it extremely important to always be a protection in the first place, to ensure the safety of citizens in the best possible way. This law specifically adds a new member who reads – Police actions in situations of increased risk. We could hear and read that at this point there is an assessment of the state of public security that it is necessary to take certain organisational measures that go beyond the existing organisational framework and regular police treatment. So, this bill defines a legal framework, i.e. a different way of recruiting available resources, which in the future will contribute to increasing the degree of security of both citizens and property, which we certainly welcome. Furthermore, the second reason is the change, which we consider extremely significant, which is a subject which has been repeatedly criticised by the public. In fact, a legal framework has been criticised for the handling of competent authorities in situations where the missing person has been a minor and an initiative has been launched to amend these provisions under the name, now, unfortunately, already known, "Tiana's Law", precisely because of the tragic fate of the girl. An amendment and addition of the law relating to missing persons has been requested. It has been specifically requested to refer to minors and, with the provision of binding emergency procedures, immediately, in terms of the use of technical and human resources, we will all agree that if the police could reconstruct the movement of potential victims in due time, i.e., as you have discussed, the supply of so-called. Withholded information - dialing calls, messages, electronic communication, time to find a missing person would be reduced to a minimum. These amendments, called "Tian's Law", are supported in the part of course relating to police conduct, by the fact that an existing law in the police has established a legal basis for the urgent taking of all measures from police jurisdiction in order to shorten the time needed to find the perpetrators of the crime, namely, victims, who, in cases of kidnapping, are of paramount importance for the success of the investigation. So the legal basis for taking emergency measures by police in cases of missing persons is defined here, not only are we based on minors, but on all of them, in fact, one is spreading the scope of potential victims, which should contribute faster to the discovery of the perpetrators, as well as where the victim is located. You, Mr. Minister, have, in your opening statement, discussed that the situation in practice is such that they are already doing so, means urgent, but the practice has shown that it is still necessary, in order to ensure this fastest response on the ground when searching for missing persons, that these provisions are nevertheless introduced in the Police Act, on the basis of which the police will be able to apply appropriate emergency measures, that this does not depend on the goodwill of the individuals who work, but that this is binding, in this way it will become binding for all. Thus, it is not legally possible to do so without a court order, it is also necessary to approve the court in these circumstances, so that, in order for this member and these amendments to be applied in practice, it is necessary in the near future to amend the laws on criminal proceedings, that is to say, that it too suffers changes relating to this area. In this way, the police's conduct in the event of a person's disappearance would be formally circled. The third reason, which I want to talk very briefly about, it is generally known that the Ministry of Interior is under reform, so the reforms are under way. Among other things, the human resources management project, funded by European funds, is being implemented. Exactly the implementation of this human resources project refers directly to those members who are changing here. That's why they have to change. The project would require, which will happen after the day for the vote and application of this law, the establishment of a special organisational unit, that is, the human resources sector, and all that work would cover what you were talking about, so-called. career advancement. Furthermore, these changes and additions relate, as I mentioned, to the organisational structure of the Police Directorate, which stemmed precisely from these ongoing reform processes. This is one of the obligations of the negotiation process under Chapter 24 and it is indeed known that international co-operation, international affairs, European integration and European affairs are already being done within the framework of the ministry, but these changes will also provide a legal framework, i.e. a specific sector that will be called the sector for international co-operation and European affairs. In all of this, the SVM parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the Police Act in the voting day, and we certainly support that police be as operational as possible, as effective as possible and that nothing can prevent security of citizens' security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31803	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31804	I thank the president. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the MUP, who, to my great satisfaction, are today in great numbers together with you, and that is good, I want to start by saying that the current Law on Police has been applied for 10 years, that you, Mr. Minister, have just said in your address to the House of People's Parliament that the new law is in the draft, that it is practically done, but that you are very carefully working on it, that you want to be applicable, efficient, to raise the operational capacity of the police and that in one modern and new way regulates the internal work of the police, which is good in any case, and I think that in such a way you should access and make new laws and additions. What I want to point out on this occasion, as an authorised representative of the NS parliamentary group, is two things. The first is that despite the fact that the new law is already in the draft, the M.P.P.D. with these amendments and additions to the Police Act shows that it closely monitors what is going on with us and in our environment, reacts on time, so there is no new law waiting, which may be justified somewhere, and it is indeed for every praise. The other thing I want to apostrophe for this occasion is yesterday's meeting that we had with you and the members of the ministry. I think it is a good practice that could be an example to future ministers, and I am glad that it comes from you, because in the previous session you were President of Parliament and that you know very well the parliamentary work. We've already done a lot of things yesterday, and I think it'll prove to be a good example during today's debate. I also want to tell you that the NS parliamentary group in the voting day will support these amendments and amendments to the law and I would like to comment very briefly on these six members. The first member is 14a, in early May of this year we had in Kumanovo, in neighbouring Macedonia, terrorist attacks. We were faced with a situation where the state police pulled members of their police forces from the border. We have further strengthened the presence of our gendarmes, which was completely justified, but the legal framework for this enhanced engagement and the provision of the proposed member is being established, this legal framework, which is in any case very important because of the assessment of the security situation, both globally and regionally. In this way, the state and its authorities must be prepared to respond adequately to all the security challenges that bring about the moment we are in. With a solution in Article 14a, a new formulation in Article 20a of the Law is also compatible, which certainly represents an improvement compared to the existing provisions, as it makes it much better to specify the internal structure of the Police Directorate. The three units are irrational from the angle of engagement of human and material resources and it is clear that this solution is an expression of a comprehensive reform that is implemented within the MUP, which is, in fact, aimed at rationalising and optimising the exploitation of already existing human resources. Otherwise, the link between this member and Article 14a is also the fact that in situations of increased risk for the security of the person and property, special units of police are expected to be engaged, whose structure is further specified by this member, and the commanding system simplifies and makes it more efficient. The relevant paper is also a member of 139a, which suggests that a police officer, a uniformly-owned official who works on specific, or operational jobs, may, if necessary, stop working with 50 years of life and 30 years of effective work in the MUP. A new member of 111a should also be mentioned, which introduces the basis for carrying out security checks at the request of other authorities and legal entities, which is clearly missing from the moment the new Arms and Ammunition Act enters into force. I would especially like to emphasise the addition of article 72. The law, which without any dilemma, came upon a positive echo in our widest public. It gives greater authority to police officers in situations where a missing person needs to be found. In practice, that's what you said, and now it starts with the investigation immediately. It is true that amendments and additions of the Criminal Law are necessary for the implementation of this article, because we cannot ask without any changes and additions to the Criminal Law of the so-called. Withholded data, but this does not mean that the court's request to the police is not being speeded up, which allows this member to do so. What this new legal solution specifically potentials is the practical obligation of emergency police officers in the event of a missing persons report, where circumstances suggest the execution of the crime, but also the co-operation and co-ordination of police with other authorities, above all with citizens, which is certainly a positive shift in relation to the existing legal solution. All in all, six short but very effective changes. Each of these changes I'd say represents an adequate reaction to certain events. So, once again, I just want to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group in voting day will support changes and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31805	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, for the need to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31806	I want to thank you, of course, for what you said. Of course, it's the M.O.P. and all of us trying to make the police more efficient. I would like to point out once again just as you have pointed out, the member we are changing, and related to Article 72, in our amendments and additions to Article 4 concerning the search for missing persons, or the acceleration of police procedures. The interior ministry owes great gratitude to Igor Juric, the father of Tijana Juric, who, with great energy and pawnage, motivated many people and, I say, launched many processes, unrelated only to this change and supplement, but raised people's awareness of everything that was going on. I hope that in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice, but of course with the Assembly above all, we will make quality changes and additions to other laws, which will allow us to search for primarily minors, but we can carry out other persons quickly and efficiently, to show that our country is not as a polygon to kidnap or steal children, but that our children in Serbia are safe. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31807	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Kružević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31808	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that the MP group of JS will support amendments and additions to the Police Act, and I will also try to give you the reasons why we have defined ourselves to such a step. Namely, how well or not does the Ministry of the Interior best show polls that have been under the auspices of the OSCE, which since 2008, during the term of office of Mr Ivica Dacic as Minister of the Interior, even today, during your term of office, the ministers say that the confidence of the citizens in the police is growing and greater. That's probably what my colleague Vanja Vukic will talk about, who is far more forward than I am. But at the very beginning, I want to say that you've been making statements in the media regarding better police status and your final efforts to find a way to increase the reception of police officers in this time in which we live. The very fact that police officers got new uniforms and equipment says that you had very serious intentions here and I have to say hello, because I know how police department workers look at what they got. Given that police officers are people who have their head in a bag for 24 hours, they should certainly be highlighted above all else and really find a way to have both the best equipment and the best uniforms and, if possible, the best pay. Unfortunately, yesterday we were witnesses that it was not only the police workers who were at risk, but we saw that they could be threatened by journalists, that they could be threatened by MPs, or vice presidents of parliament, so on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, I would like to strongly condemn the attacks against journalist Milan Djokic and Vice-President of the Vladimir Marinkovic National Assembly. But to go back to these reasons why JS has defined itself to support this bill. The rationalization through the merger of special units, which you've talked about, is certainly something that's good, and I think you've made it perfectly clear, that it doesn't take more units to do the same thing and that only by calling one of those units will all units for the same purposes drown in each other. What's really good about this law is that the competition is bound to start a working relationship. Of course, they will exclude graduates of the Criminal and Police Academy who have signed a contract with the state for each year. What I recognize at the Ministry of the Interior, and what I think should be a general national strategy, is that the Human Resources Sector is well planning the size of students that it takes to enroll in certain years for them all to get a job in the police. Why did I say it was supposed to be a national strategy? Well, just if we had one planning out of all areas, we'd probably have less unemployed in our profession, we'd certainly have a smaller outflow of professional personnel from our country, which we're facing. I think it's a great thing and it would be worth insisting that this strategy be introduced into other areas as well. The increase in the jurisdiction of internal control, which you've also talked about, is also good. By preparing for this presentation and reading various texts and, of course, commendations and attacks on what we are trying to defend today and for what we are going to vote on, of course, on Thursday, I saw that many of you as a minister can change a group of people working on internal control. I didn't experience it in any way negatively, because it often happened, not only in the police, but also in other areas that even that internal control knows to shut up, shut up and get your head out of something, and I think you as a minister are exactly the one who needs to recognize and replace such a team with some new team that will do their job to the end. I think it's extremely good that it's left as a possibility. Of course, we'll hear the criticism of this, but from the angle I saw it from, I think it's good and I'm behind it. Bringing order into career advancement is also a good thing. Why? Because we won't be able to get through the order to have situations to improve with the rank of certain members of the police administration. Of course, the division of police officers who have powers and administrative workers is the same newspaper, and we can also distinguish who does what and how it should be monitored and how it should be rewarded, and how this career advancement means that the employee is monitored from the moment of admission to the service, through his career progress, until he retires or another organisation. I also see that this law clearly defines the system of progress. So far, there's been a case that if you wanted to get someone out of a place because of the bad results in the police, you couldn't do it because he had a high rank, but you had to literally advance him so he wouldn't be in that position anymore. This law allows it to be done properly and only properly, so that everyone will suffer the consequences of their work, and everyone, of course, will be rewarded according to what he did. For each new act, what is very important and important, there must be adequate education, appropriate years of internship, completed vocational training and an appropriate annual evaluation. Of course, it won't be possible from the rank of sergeant and sergeant to become a colonel or general for three or four years, which in some cases happened. The same important thing for members of the police force is that the age pension, i.e. the border, shifts to 52 years of life, or to 30 years of unemployment. It's certainly one good thing because with new young people, fresh people we'll replace, maybe rough sounds, exhausted personnel, but the places where cops work, not only in Serbia and the region, in Europe and in the world are certainly places that require great effort, and the job with great effort certainly leaves certain clues to all kinds of human abilities. You also mentioned a legal basis for police actions in high-risk situations. Unfortunately, we need something to happen in that accident, here, I say, and part of the happiness that didn't happen in Serbia, but it happened in Macedonia, and certainly it is necessary that the police can react in regular circumstances as well as to introduce some extraordinary measures. I am convinced that you were saying that Serbia cannot do so and the attack and that we are ready and energetic action that you have deployed forces to the border with Macedonia, I think we have made it clear that we are not in the mood for this kind of activity with terrorists. The legal basis for taking urgent steps by police in case of a missing person is something that really deserves the greatest attention in this law and you've given it a lot of attention, but I want to say that in Serbia, about 1,500 people disappear on an annual basis, about four people a day. Five percent of these people are never found. That sounds good statisticalally. But, in general, 5% of people not to be found out of 1,500 is a huge number, and one is not to be found very much. The absurd thing is that the police have available measures that they can take under the given circumstances, but that administrative matters and procedures are kind of holding it back. It is certainly good that a solution will be reached with the ministry, i.e. between the two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, in which a model will be found that it will not have to wait for approval, or that it will be possible to work on the basis of the prosecutor's oral approval. What I'm saying is that the assessment of police officers in these situations is also a very important thing, because you know that when a child left home in some unserious way or when a child suspected of being kidnapped is, of course, one capital at the beginning of every investigation. I'm just going to remind you of a very short part of the text that we had the opportunity to read in the previous period. The same day that 15-year-old Tijana Juric of Sudotica disappeared, half an hour after midnight, only one year older Katarina Zaric of The Tower disappeared. Three days after she disappeared, the mother reported her disappearance to the police, and shortly thereafter Katarina was found at a friend's apartment in Pogorevec. Tijana Juric was found too late. Interior ministry members, operationally found that the kidnapping in the case of minor Stefan Ilic was not there, his underage brother admitted to the police that he had invented the kidnapping. These are the texts we met in the very close past. Media attention in these cases can also be used, but it can often go away. Unfortunately, until the police get what they need to take into action which is legitimate, I have no doubt that you are doing operational things, and until such type of approval is obtained, which is certainly good for every commendation, but until the police go into legitimate action and until they can stop all those things that are going to derail from the right path, the locals are looking for a child, to panic among the kidnappers, that these kidnappers in some situations may not do what they would not do out of fear, they can certainly bring one negative thing, one negative course of action. We at JS sincerely hope that after the adoption of this law on social networks, information about the lightning response of the police and the discovery of missing persons will be read exclusively, and we especially think about children, and this is indeed the biggest reason why JS will give unreserved support to these amendments and amendments to the law and in the day to vote for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31809	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are in principle right and these may be the hardest times when we follow up when a minor is reported missing, when a child is reported missing. There isn't one of us, I believe, in an O.R. or in Serbia who doesn't think of his closest, someone he knows and feels, it's a terrible situation. It's a really terrible situation, from the Tian situation, to the little Masha, to this last case in kickinda with this tragedy that happened. Unfortunately, we had hundreds of other cases that the public never found out about, where they were fake disappearances. He's gone, he's not answering his parents, they're reporting, the police are investing huge resources, and we find after a day or two, that person who's somewhere with his friends. Those are happy circumstances. We're happy when it happens, even though we've spent both resources and money. They're a little angry these operatives haven't slept in two or three days, but then it turns out it was a joke, but we're all happy because the kid's alive and well. It's the hardest when it ends tragically. Our job, like Serbia, is to find increasingly efficient methods. We have managed to prevent our children from getting out of the country, to steal them from our country, we will not allow it. You've seen the police solve these cases very quickly and efficiently, and I'm proud of those guys who took part in it, who really did it in a flashy and fantastic way. Of course, the more police had the opportunity, the more we'll work at that speed to find you, as soon as they start, to finish as soon as possible. Of course, it's not always easy. Not all investigations are simple, not all the same. Some get complicated in one way or another. As you said, sometimes that media attention can work out, it can create pressure on people who work, it can also alert the public in a way that the kidnappers pull out, that we can't do it in some way that we might regularly use it to get to them faster. What is, of course, good that in this year we have, in these first six months, 4.5% more enlightened crimes generally in Serbia, which speaks of increasing labour efficiency. Statistics, of course, when I talked about last year, where we recorded very good results, almost 10% reduction in crime compared to previous periods, I always said that numbers are not crucial. The numbers aren't the only thing that matters. Someone who's been stolen by TV from the house, maybe it's the biggest tragedy that ever happened to him because he's been saving and working hard to buy it, and it's a huge loss to him. Of course, I'm not talking about serious crimes. But our job is, I believe that this law will do it too, to make us better, to make our police better equipped, to be more efficient, to have more rights. I can tell you that I owe some of the people a lot of gratitude, of course, to all the associates and the people of the Ministry of the Interior, but to some of the unions. We talked, perhaps even the hardest, the strongest negotiations we had with the Independent Police Union, Mr Lukic, who were very hard. These people insisted on a special collective contract and an annex, which I hope we will soon conclude, and I always begged them to understand that the Ministry doesn't always have the means. It's easy for me to say – I promise you everything and I'll give everything, but simply, if there's no resources for it, we'll owe these people, we won't have to pay them any travel expenses or anything else. So we try to make our promises and what we do very proportionate. But thanks to the work of a large number of people at the Ministry of the Interior, and I think that this day should be dedicated to them too because these boys and girls in blue are the ones that make the rest of the Ministry more effective, thanks to you in the National Assembly because I know how serious and responsible this job is, some people don't know it, but I really, as the former president of Parliament, know it very well, thanks to you and the efforts and everything that's been done, I think we're getting more and more high-quality laws. It is essential that it be in one law, that this law be applicable, that when we pass a law, when it is adopted, that a state body, that citizens can apply it and that we have a better and more efficient apparatus. I think that makes Serbia a better place and our society a safer place to live. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31811	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31812	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with his associates and dear colleagues, of course the SDPS will support these proposed amendments to the law and we look forward to the law as a whole. Minister, we heard the law is good. I'm glad that you said that you're a little over the deadline, because somehow in the psychological plan, that means you're hoping for a good result, because when we don't do something very little, we're going to do a little bit, and we're going to hide it, you've confessed nicely. I think it's going to be one good result for all of us and I really want it to be that way. Today's topic, or these six members of the law that are offered to us today, of course is of great importance, and I, as an MP of my parliamentary group, have defined myself to speak because I see in all the members of the law what is primarily important in every community's life, which is peace and security. If these conditions of functioning of one society are not provided in a proper and adequate way, then other problems are created and then we do not do what we think we always want to do. Therefore, the world is changing, and we are very aware of all these circumstances. We're aware of all the events in the environment, we're aware of the dangers we're in. Personally, I think that what is now proposed will largely allow the police, that the MUP, can carry out the tasks ahead of it in due time, in order to protect the property and the security of its citizens. In that sense, I think I simply want to commend, this member of the law, as regards this fill-in of the interreggies from the moment it is found that there has been an increase or a change in the security situation, to the point where an emergency is to be declared and the military law should be applied, if I am not mistaken, Article 39. I think it's very good that we have a solution now, which is known when, who and how to act, is everywhere the force against any evil is used, and that force no matter how much it wants to do good can get into a certain problem, of course, unless the rules and procedures are clearly set up. The bottom line of all that I see in the proposals offered today is that the rules of the jurisdiction procedure are clearly defined, that we do not come to a problem that in our intention when we want to respond in time and prevent something, to get into an even bigger problem, to say, a more delicate situation than, of course, all of us as a society have the damage. I am pleased that the Ministry of the Interior participated in the Tiana programme and this service, or sectoral service, that will take care of human resources, of course very important. Why? Because as in every segment of society, all those who choose to do certain work must, above all, know what awaits them in this work, what are their rights, what are their obligations, how their careers can be monitored, how can they affect their careers and what is waiting for them? Is there a reward waiting for them, is there a promotion waiting for them, or is there something contrary to that? That's very good because, I'd say, what we're kind of forgetting, and that's also healthy human relations in collectives, because everywhere there's some promotions going on, it doesn't matter now whether it's just this sector, but wherever someone's got something that most people think maybe they shouldn't have done, there's something that's not good for the whole engagement, nobody even the whole service is doing it, of course, some damage. In that sense, we really commend this change that is about to take place. What's also very important, is that this change in the member's urgency of acting in search of missing persons, I think it's simply a central topic somewhere, maybe there will be our discussions today. We all remember these unfortunate 13 days of July 2014 and this society, after this terrible accident and the tragic death of the Tijana girl, received a new homework assignment. I'm quite sure that this change today in a member of the law that happens is just one in a row waiting for us, because I'm quite sure when I say no ministry of force, no best law can prevent what the whole society needs as a prevention to participate and what it simply has to be offered as one partner relationship. Of course, if it's even time for me to remember some of the old times when kidnappings only happened because girls wanted to get married, because the boys were taking them, we're going into a very big and dangerous time, a crisis in every way, when trafficking is like a new crime that we might not yet be completely sensitive to, and as a society I'm talking about. This is something that as a great challenge awaits us and I am just saying and I hope that the new Police Act will also help us to feel safer in this sense, that the police will have enough instruments in every way to give quality of their activities. When we talk about this member of the law, about the search for the missing, I simply have to say, why did I say after all that it was a domestic task for the whole society, simply because there are many reasons why younger minors or senior minors leave their homes. Sometimes it's a conflict with parents over a period of adolescence, dissatisfaction with poor success, peer violence. It can be, of course, some personal frustration, not to mention how much domestic violence, problems with alcoholism in families, etc. So again I say this is a homework assignment for the whole society. I hope the practice until the final amendment of the law, the new law on police will change when it comes to reporting a missing person, I think we have to have a fully defined who is, as determined by the missing person's status, so that we don't have, of course, a lot of missed alarms and some raising of a police organisation where, of course, it didn't happen the most that we care about. What's also important is that police officers who receive these first applications, who most often come from closest relatives, from parents, I think we should consider whether maybe we should include someone else in the number of those who can file that kind of application. So police officers must be very sensitive to what they have at some point reported by a concerned parent. Not only after your long-standing practice, because what you ministers want to achieve in the human resources sector right now should help one better expertise, one better follow-up, let me say, the overall state of service and everything that changes in society so that the person to whom the concerned parent is coming can really get around, hears and reacts rightly. If that first man, so to speak in the chain of failure, we did nothing, and we don't want to do anything anymore. What this change of law has offered is, of course, that the judge, let me say, acting, can now in one, without saying, these long-term written correspondence to give his order, so that he can go in search, that he can follow his face, that he can use the listening technique of the phone and so on. It is very important, but in any case, as you have said, further co-operation with the Department of Justice and amending criminal law will most significantly give adequate support to what the police are doing at this point. As much as we've been waiting for this "Tian's Law" to come to the debate, I think we're all quite aware of the very responsible behavior of the police in the event of the disappearance of a small Masha, which, regardless of what happened then, to say, is a member of the law that we are about to change now, the police have, of course, managed to save the child very quickly, and what is probably the biggest panic of every parent, is the disease and the disappearance of the child. All those who lost a child on the beach for five minutes, at sea, never forget that moment and, of course, always, in some mood, return to it. So, I think society should, when it comes to the safety of all its members of the community, when we talk about any age, we are particularly sensitive to children, but don't forget, adults are also missing. The fact that they're older, that's one fact that they say that they have more experience of someone in life, but simply, it's about people who are sick, senile, who can also find themselves in a very invisible position, and can't possibly be defined by the age of someone who's gone, that we react faster or even faster than we might otherwise. That's why I'm appealing, because in order for us to be safe, we all have to worry. The state has to say, instruments, it has to methods, it has to be law, it has to provide material resources, but the family is very important in this segment to take care of children. Among other things, not because our country signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and we are members of a civilization that respects that fluid, I suppose, as a state, but as individuals, not only because of that, but simply, the message of parents, when we talk about creating a safe culture, goes first from home. The second situation is the school, and it might be very good to think about that in some period that follows, that parents at the beginning of the school year, through professional school associates, through a director who will have co-operation with the police station commander who is in his nearest area, to get some information on how to guide children to safer, or less risky behavior in any circumstances, whether on the way from school, whether on a trip, whether on vacation, whether on vacation, with everything anyway. Life is always just as precious and we always keep it the same. What I also think is important, it's social work centers. We have a lot of family problems, which is why a lot of, I'd say, missed opportunities to take adequate care of our children, give them the right instructions. I think where the family's insecure and not doing enough of its first and primary assignment, which is childcare, I think the social work centres should really be a little more up-to-date in that kind of support. What I would appreciate above all is much more if I believed that in our society there was the most, and that is the question of our interpersonal solidarity. We all read, a few days ago, that a girl was waiting for a bus at the station, there wasn't even a deaf time of night, she wasn't alone, she stopped the car, and two guys tried to get her into the car. She, unfortunate, defended herself as much as she could. To horror, to her personal horror, and I will say mine, that no one at that moment has helped her. We must call upon the feeling of mutual solidarity. We need to understand that the same troubles everywhere can be met and in this sense we have to build a much more responsible society, because, again, the best law will not prevent any evil, unless people understand in the best possible way what it is and if they are not in a partner relationship with their own country, or themselves, through various sectors and methods of organization. Unfortunately, it was a time when we believed that only by, let me say, the good practices of old times, we could live. We can continue to live very peacefully and peacefully, but we simply need to adopt new skills and new knowledge. In that sense, Minister, I hope you will make a full contribution, and also all other segments of society, and I repeat, without peace and stability, hands are tied.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31813	MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31814	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, for this time of year, in line with your announcements, we were expecting a new draft law on police. You said, when the draft law was presented in parliament in mid-April, that you were expecting a debate in parliament in June. Here's the mid-July of the month, you said yourself, those are the deadlines you set for yourself. You didn't respect that deadline, now you're saying we have a second deadline, and that's December, according to the action plan. I'm not personally prepared to believe that this deadline will be respected. I would like to be denied and surprised, but the fact that this is how the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member you are, has probably contributed to the fact that from today on, the World Economic Forum has issued a list of the most efficient and inefficient governments in the world, 144 countries have analysed and Serbia is 10th, as the most inefficient government in the world. That the law should change, we agree with you. If it takes a deep change, we agree with you. What we haven't heard from you is what's common for your government colleagues to say about the former regime being responsible. You're probably embarrassed to say that because your previous one is the first vice president of the government. So maybe it's hard for you to criticise that he, as a police minister for six years, hasn't changed some of the things that were so urgent that now, a few months after your announcement before the adoption of a new police law, we have amendments and additions before this applicable Police Act. You said, you said, you worked hard, so you didn't get to finish this job in that time frame, I don't know if you were working on finding a new head of criminal police or the Davor Pasalic case, or finding an assassin on Milan Bek or on many other cases that have been happening in the Republic of Serbia these days and in recent months, where citizens' safety has deteriorated. We have some scenes we thought would never happen in Serbia again. The kind we had 20 years ago. But here we go on these six short changes that you've proposed to amend and supplement the Police Act. What I want to talk about and ask one question is a fact for Article 3 which changes the current Article 20 of the applicable law, where you have, as you said, predicted the formation of a new special anti-terrorism unit. I want to ask you, what will it be and what will be the composition of that unit? You said everyone would be all and members of a special anti-terrorism unit today, and PTJ will be able to apply and will be selected the best. I wonder what that number is. What is the structure of this new unit? You didn't say anything about when you explained the law and these changes. So, what time is this transformation going to happen? What fell out of this amended article 20, we gave that one amendment, which talks about forming a directorate, is who manages the directorship. The current member clearly has one position that he says – the director of the police is in charge of the Directorate. In this proposal, there is no amendment, and we expect you to accept it. I think it's logical that the law defines who runs the Police Directorate. The amendments to article 72 are well spoken of and it is good that they are put on the agenda. As I understand it, that is, when I look at this amendment as it is written, it does not change the existing member of the law, but gives one addition that will now allow the police to immediately know, if there are grounds for doubting that the person is a victim of a crime, that the police will be able to take all the measures and actions provided for in these and other laws. The security check now provided for by Article 5, the introduction of a new member, which is due to the adoption of some new laws in the previous period is good and necessary, in order to comply with the laws, but we often have this problem to change or pass some laws that are then contrary to some other applicable laws and we are having a hard time harmonising all changes and I fear that when the new law comes about the police that we will find ourselves in a situation that some things in some other laws will have to change, and we will wait again and we will have some discrepancies again. You said about this article 6, which adds a new member of 139 who allows early retirement, that this would allow respect for the members of the MUP and their dignified retirement, that it would be several hundred people, and that it would be necessary to find an additional 180 million dinars in this year, in order to pay off their retirement. I believe that retirement is worthy of every citizen's wishes, whenever he welcomes and acquires legally prescribed conditions for retirement and that this argument is not good enough. I think that this introduces the inequality of members of the MUP compared to other Serbian citizens, to other public sector employees. As much as I appreciate the effort that the M.O.P. spends on a daily basis, we also have a number of doctors, professors, government employees who work their whole lives, not of course at such risky jobs, but they deserve to retire with dignity. Unfortunately, it makes it difficult for them to keep changing the pension law, and the pensions that are waiting for them are less and less and less and the citizens of them are increasingly difficult and harder to live, although you have announced in the pre-election campaign that there will be no cuts but an increase in pensions, the fact is that pensions less than a year ago have been reduced by 10, 20, 25%. You said this departure would free up places for new members of the police. However, it explains that under the government's public sector rationalisation programme, funds will be allocated and no new employment will be made under the programme. So that's why there won't be any new employment, you said there'll be room for new ones, so I'd like to hear if there's going to be any new ones, or not? It shouldn't be, but you made a statement, so you got me a little confused with that statement of yours. These amendments to the law are necessary, we agree with you here, and for that reason we will support them. We gave a few amendments, I was talking about one amendment. I think it takes changes to the law on police, that it took a long time, but that your predecessor wasn't so interested in working on these things and these changes somehow avoided coming to the Assembly's agenda. It's going to be bad, I welcome your announcement in that sense, I think it would be bad to continue the practice of passing the law by an emergency procedure, you said the law on police will not be put into practice that way. You were the speaker of parliament and you know perhaps better than some other ministers how parliament works and why it is important that we do not discuss the laws of urgency and that these laws, which are discussed here in the ordinary procedure in parliament and adopted as a rule of quality, because there is an opportunity to point out certain shortcomings or places where the law can be improved. I hope that by the end of the year, according to this Action Plan, for chapter 24, we will get the Police Act more recent, complete, that we will discuss it, as I hope that what you have announced in response to one of my fellow MPs will happen, that a special collective agreement will be signed and there will be no reason to strike the police, because today we have been announced that a strike has been announced by the police union for 27 July this year, unless after months of negotiations with the Ministry, an agreement is reached on a special collective agreement and that we will avoid this situation, especially in this complicated, complex, security situation in which Serbia is today due to various things that my colleagues have spoken about and which I would now not repeat, because I think that there are many problems, the security challenges facing Serbia today. I hope that we will also discuss this new Police Act when it comes to the agenda in a constructive atmosphere, that we will find the best possible solutions, that we will modernise the work of the police, make it effective and that it will not happen, as now that we do not have a Commissioner of the Criminal Police for more than a year, the Administration of the Criminal Police for more than a year and that despite your announcements, Mr. Minister, here is the case of an attack on journalist Davor Pasovic for more than a year has not been resolved, that scenes from the 1990s occur on the streets of the cities in Serbia, that as you announced a quick resolution of some cases prolongs and does not solve months and months backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31815	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31816	Thank you. As far as the new Police Act is concerned, it's a law on which we work together and through working discussions we work with the whole society. I am glad that such attention is given to this law and it makes me happy, because I see that one part of the public is extremely concerned about what is happening. It's very important to us, because the police must be more efficient and better at their work and that's our job. In any case, we are passing these laws for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and it is always best to bring them into one long procedure in which all the participants from our society, but of course also from the international public, will have the opportunity to say what they think and to correct the text of the law, rather than bring them to a shortcut. Then we repair these laws a thousand times, as has happened many times in this National Assembly, many years ago. So this should be a good and quality law which I hope will, like this one today, accept the entire National Assembly, show that it supports the work of the Ministry of the Interior, because that's what the Assembly can do, and I say executive bodies can't and I think it's something that's going to be good for all of us. We have really made progress, made good results in Action Plan 24, which has been accepted by the European Commission in its third working version, therefore, much better than most countries in our environment. We've done a lot of good results in that regard. Sometimes I just have a dilemma about whether MPs ask me to engage directly in investigations, that as a minister, I don't mind, that as a minister, they don't transfer me if I get involved in some operational things to say -- what the minister was there, etc.; or whether they ask me to do it as a minister, and that I, as a minister, control their work. So if so, then they ask me about investigations and what I did, did I go to interrogate suspects, etc., or, if that's what they want, I'm willing to, and if they want to, then let me take it operationally in that way. So, joke aside, the police were pretty effective. I commend the work of these people, no matter how hard some in our society tried to speak ill of the police, of their work. Are there any people who are bad here? There is. We've filed criminal charges against over 150 people, and in the previous year, in a recent action, we arrested 29 people suspected of certain things at border crossings. But in such a big machine, it takes constant control of society, constant police control and prosecution of the work of police authorities. We do this, we show that by fighting corruption we fight not selectively, we fight fully committed and we show that all those who disobey the law cannot count on a badge, no social position, no political belonging, no social status, no one. Whoever is suspected of any crime will answer to the law and the courts will decide what will happen to these people. As far as the CIA and CTU are concerned, what's going on? It happens and it's connected to that issue you asked about reception, so it's not just about new reception strictly in terms of new people, but when you have a member of a special unit that's 50 years old, it's not realistic that this man can meet all the requirements that the unit puts before him. Why was that so far? I don't know, but it's not always a good age threshold, and we need new people in special forces. All over the world, this is usually determined either by the age criteria or by applying contracts of three years within the body in which they work and after a year, two, three, depends on how in which unit, special checks are carried out to determine whether this person can continue to remain, whether it is similar to being a member of a special unit. We'll try to get a part of the people who are leaving, to fill in from the police force, because a member of the special unit can't be admitted just off the street. At the moment that we'd like to see one officer, he has to complete a course of COPO that lasts a year, he has to finish his six-month internship. So, he's only a year and a half from this moment on becoming someone who can be admitted to the police with the rank of a junior officer, so, in his first police act or, of course, if he finishes the Criminal Police Academy after four years. Then if it took 500 cops, we'd have them in a year and a half. In order for that man to make it to a special unit, it takes, I can't say how much, but roughly for at least five years. Even if we wanted to receive 10, 20, 50 special forces, it would take a lot longer than people even assume. These people are recruited from the ranks of the police or the military, but above all from the ranks of the police, from those units that already exist. What will be their composition? Units will be approximately the size of today's S.I.E.L.D. First of all, it's a job to be done by professionals. There's a team of professionals working on it. It is not my place to determine how many units are needed for Serbia, how their weapons should be, what their characteristics should be. That's what people do and I leave it to them. As far as the law is concerned, in this section that speaks of the Director of Police, we have in law a section that speaks of the Director of Police, where it is said that the Director of Police is in charge of the Police Directorate. It's not disputed to repeat. We'll accept that it says the police department is run by a police director. It is not at all disputed and this is in no way questionable. After all, who else would run the police department? It is not disputed that I accept such an amendment. As for the money, the severances provided, they are already provided in the budget in the position that exists with Minister Kori Udovicki, therefore, at the Ministry of State Administration, the money provided for in the severance and the retirement of one part of the people. It's already something that the government's plan is, and that's what we're talking about. So it's not about the imbalances of the M.O.P. members compared to other people. It's about the specificity of the work these people do. I've visited a lot of police stations all over Serbia. One of the most impressive things you see when you walk into a police station lobby, you see photos of people, 10, 20, 30, depending on the station to the station. These are the people who gave their lives, those are the people who died. These are the people who were killed by terrorists. These are the people who gave their lives for us sitting here today and our families to be safe. That's why it's special, that's why it's different, and that's why they're going to retire before, because these people, doing their job, literally every day, are risking their lives, and that's something we have to say hello. It's something this society has to value and it's something this society has to reward. Respecting everyone's work, this is the most complex job. This is a job that requires people to give their lives sometimes. It is something that the Republic of Serbia wants and must respect at all times, and I hope this National Assembly too. As far as pensions are concerned, unfortunately, pensions are a reduction when your irresponsible government has made such economic moves that in fact destroyed the pension system, which led us to borrow ourselves without any economic justification, and then after a few years, we get to the point that we can no longer pay our pensions or salaries. We have a record low budget deficit today. Today we have much better economic indicators, which everyone admits to us. There is no one else in the world or in Serbia who can't say anything good about the government's economic moves anymore. Everyone said well, from the IMF to Angela Merkel, and that's something that's internationally recognised. Anyone who wants to say otherwise can say whatever they want, but those who wonder, those who are absolutely invited to say their opinions, say the government is leading a good economic policy. That's a fact. As far as the union strike is concerned, whenever it is announced that we will soon sign, let me say, this annex, we have already signed the last collective agreement with the Independent Police Union, which has negotiated the longest with professional people, whenever we announce, and otherwise the MUP has 26 unions and whenever we announce that we will sign something and when it is expected to be, say, at the government session tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, then a union appears which day or two before that says so – we now demand that, otherwise we will go on strike and you when you sign it, they say – see, our threat strike pressed them to take some points. And I get that, and it's okay. It's their way of fighting. They think they're doing good. We don't think. We consider, in cooperation with those who are serious, who want to make their contribution in the most responsible way, to make it together, because it is in my interest that every member of the police is paid better and has more conditions to work. We had cases of Smajil Taric in 2008, Lazarevic in Valjevo, where the three murders on the street were in 2008, in Valjev wounding, throwing a bomb, a laza bomber called, tearing down cafes with a banger, arson. At least no one's house is being torn down on the street in Serbia and the state is watching and watching, so it takes one six months to organize to react. If I didn't tell you all about it, I could be making more cases here right now. So whoever killed themselves, who planted the bombs on whom, knocked down the bugger, organized the paramilitary police, at least that's not happening to us in the state anymore. The worst condition we had was 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. These were the years in which we had the highest number of murders, after the '90s, the largest number, drastic cases of murders. Not to tell you about all those tragic murders that happened, with descriptions, etc. We don't need that as a parameter. I rarely mention it. That's what I mention when someone says to show them there's a counterargument, if we're going to talk about it, but the execution of serious crimes is the execution of serious crimes. It's important to us that all those who commit these serious crimes are found, sometimes it goes fast, sometimes it doesn't go fast, sometimes investigations are related to other investigations. We can't tell the public about this directly. But you saw in the end, for everyone, for the most difficult murders we found all the perpetrators. There's only one or two loose ends left. I believe that in the case of these serious murders, we're going to expose that thing. For these cases that we often talk about in public, I say, I refused to comment on the course of the investigation, because whenever we talked about it and whenever we were giving some more concrete information, when we wanted to convince the public that the investigation was moving and that we were doing something, these data were being misused, and in these abuses we might have had, to say, slower investigations. I decided not to give any more hints. Of course, we never talked about data that could damage a criminal investigation. Sometimes no one does it officially. Sometimes it's done in good relationships between the media and members of the police or the prosecution. I can only appeal not to do that. That's what I appealed to my media colleagues. If there is no interest in publishing the data that will damage the investigation, then there will be no interest in anyone to give them that information or vice versa. I begged police officers, ordered, pointed out the legal consequences that any disclosure of the data from the investigation could damage the investigation and that the investigation was badly done. I hope that we will succeed, as a society, to fight, it is not a matter of you as a parliament, but rather a matter of executive authority, mentality, social situation. We need to teach people that the data from the investigation is something they don't need to publish, that the data from the investigation is something that can warn the perpetrators in any way and that we don't do these things. In any case, we will try to improve our work in the coming period, earn Parliament's trust, because we answer to the citizens of Serbia and to this parliament. That this trust that parliament has in us is justified, regardless of political membership and the number of MPs that supports this or that option. We're going to try to justify our trust as a MUP and really show it, and I'm not telling you that as someone who's a minister, but as someone who wants to represent these people who are doing the hardest job in Serbia today, that they deserve your support and trust. We'll try to provide them with more equipment, new uniforms, vehicles, modernize them, make it easier to carry out their tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31817	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31818	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, distinguished ministers and your associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a debate, at least so far, moving in two directions or, since matter is like that when you talk about police and its wide-ranging activity, then you come into a situation to go wide and deal with all security issues, etc. On the other hand, we had those who discussed the proposed changes specifically, which we should do the day after tomorrow in the amendment. I'll try not to do either. What I'm trying to say is that police as a service are certainly the most important segment of the internal security system, or internal affairs, that police are one of the most important segments of the country's overall national security system, on the one hand, and on the other hand that the police segment of security that is most direct, more direct than any other segments, touch co-operation with citizens and directly turn to them. It is a segment whose work, on the other hand, citizens see the best daily in their immediate surroundings. On the other hand, we have a police law that was passed 10 years ago. Now a new law is being drafted on the police after 10 years in a completely or in many of the changed and socially special security environments. I don't want to go to the breadth that today are the characteristics of all the provinces of crime unlike 10 years ago, etc., etc. So, all of this imposes the need for an absolutely serious approach to the creation of a new law on police, and in this sense I welcome the definition of this government and the Ministry to make this law, as the minister has just said, consult the most numerous social structures and the fastest structures in order to just make a law that will respond to needs and moments, while at the same time anticipating all possible future developments in crime, etc. On the other hand, when we talk about these proposed amendments to the Police Act, I think it's a good idea to make these changes and supplement them for two reasons. First, it seems to me that this has succeeded, not waiting for a new police law to be passed immediately, spotlessly improve the conditions for more effective police work, such as reorganisation or the reorganisation of certain segments in the service of the police or the sector, etc., such as the question, if you want to do so, and the status of performers of these security tasks that the police are carrying out. It is very important that in the context of these changes and additions we have strengthened, it seems to me, along with the amendments, as much as I have looked at, the role, which is very important to me, the minister in considering the global security process covered by the police. It seems to me that lately, in recent years, it's been a little lost, so the interior ministers knew to say - I had nothing to do with it, it's a police matter. It's specifically said here. If it is estimated that in one segment of society, in one part of the territory or in the whole territory, there are conditions that will make the situation very much worse, then the minister must be the first to assess and be able to react if both government and ask for a performance, not to leave, so that the man is the Director of Police. The Director of Police is an expert manager, not a political one. It's very important to me that it's recognized at this point, and I think that such a solution will improve police work. On the other hand, I think you've recognized some escalating crime, especially in the last few years, and it's been mentioned a lot here, because for me it's a crime, we're talking about kidnappings of minors or adults, etc., but it's a crime. So, it's been recognized and now we don't have to wait for a new law to be passed. What matters to me, when these amendments and additions to this existing law are given, it is that these are not the solutions offered right now for this moment, but those are solutions that will certainly, I think, Mr. Minister, as such, find a place in the new law. Data are quality solutions, not in a hurry and not in a short time, and that's what's worth in these changes and additions. What's important in the last part, I think this new law that we're making, which shows these changes and this debate today, the law on the police is going to impose a new imposition on the need to amend many other laws, especially those that treat other and different security services and those that make up a complete security-intelligence system, etc., will have to be found. Therefore, many other laws and amendments will suffer, and on the other hand, even if it does not initiate this law changes them in these laws, they need to be changed in order for them to follow all of this, and all of this, when you see these changes of all the laws, then we come to one roof thing, and that is also to ask the Minister that he as a significant factor, i.e. a significant function in the whole system, has in mind and supports it. All this will impose and impose the need to join the development of a new national security strategy complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31819	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31820	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in an attempt to contribute to the debate on amendments and additions to the Police Act, I have at least two good news and a few less good news, or critical remarks and questions for clarifications and solutions offered to us in amendments and additions. The good news is that, in total, the Law on Amendments and Supplements can be voted on and I can vote on the condition that at least one amendment is seriously considered and that we clarify what I will ask as a question. The accompanying good news is that Minister Stefanovic has a practice of consultation in the Assembly. I would like to say that this behavior is contagious for other ministers, but I would also like to mention it specifically in the context of this debate because it has not been marked anywhere by a particularly defined obligation of business, but it is a gesture that implies that dialogue, that dialogue is understood and that it is necessary to create it in the Assembly if it is already understood. The consultations the minister offers and requests and asks MPs would really be good to be contagious. I don't expect you to speak to your colleagues at all as a subject that would be good for the government, whoever supports the government, and by the Parliament, whoever is the opposition or the ruling coalition in the Assembly. What are less good news and remarks, perhaps you'll say they're critical, and what are the most important questions? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1, 2. and 3. amendments and additions to the law are changed internal structure and organisations and competences within the I don't see, I don't, of course, slow down, but I don't see the need to argue that we have seen that there exist as long ago -- non-state sectors in our border areas, that there are terrorist groups, semi-terrorist groups, and that's motive for these provisions to be made. I consider them good whether we have any kind of terrorist action in our region or not. For the amendment submitted by counterpart Marko Djurisic, it can be repeated, to know what is the police director's jurisdiction, and this, as may be said, will help to shake up the system that has been deployed entirely unnecessaryly in several different sectors of competence, to pass the procedures in which people prove they can also be members in new sectors. What would be more important to me, and it can't be in the law, but I would like these three first members of the amendments and the addition of the Police Law to bring innovation into the sector. We MPs and the public are generally prone to the skeletal traditional perception of what security threats are and what they are all about today in the world. What we think has nothing to do with what's happening in the world when it comes to security assessments, security threats, but it's natural. The public's used to something that I, with sympathy, call a dresser's way of thinking. We're not used to adopting new knowledge quickly and looking at some black-and-white world that knows who's the good guy and then we tend to have that kind of attitude towards our own security forces or people who work at the MUP. It hasn't been like that for a long time. I'd like to say that it can't be a topic of law, but that through this sector it's simply being promoted in the entire security sector, not only when it comes to the MUP, but in the whole of what has long been practice and knowledge in developed countries as we want to become. The amendments that Alexander Jerkov and I have submitted concern members who follow, Art. 4, 5 and 6 changes and additions, and I'm not talking about amendments right now, so to say that they are a condition for me to vote in favour of the law, but I think it's good for all of us to have the ambiguity I see and which is why the amendments are made clear in the principle debate. Article 4 speaks of an attempt to enforce the law that we have passed, which concerns the reporting of a missing person in circumstances in which there is reasonable doubt that the person is the victim of a special crime and we say that police officers are obliged to take action immediately in collaboration with other competent authorities, associations of citizens and citizens. The amendment I have submitted is an amendment giving the deadline. I know the lawyers say we all know what it is right now, but I also know that everyone is willing to interpret what it is right now. I know this is immediately in the sector arranged for protocols, but for at least two reasons I have submitted an amendment adding words – immediately and within 24 hours at the latest. The first reason is that this member cannot be applied without amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and then our debate, agreement or disagreement on the introduction of a deadline would also be a guideline for amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. The second reason is that with the full respect of legal arguments to know what is right now and that only we who are not lawyers are looking for deadlines, I think it would be good until this member is in place, until the Code of Criminal Procedure is changed to be a time limit. This is not specific for me to vote for the law or not. I will support the introduction of such a provision for the simple reason that it is the basis for the change and the way the security sector of the MUP refers to citizens and to their demands and that a dialogue is established which is clearly established by the introduction of this member of the amendments and the addition of the Police Act. Why am I saying we need a debate? Because I also participated in the adoption, voting and debate, the March 2013 "Maria Law" where we brought provisions on the DNA database of pedophile where we made it clear that there would be very strict mechanisms against the part against the semi-freedom of minors, etc., which in two years we failed to bring sublegal acts and failed to create a base. Please don't take this as a criticism of the opposition government. That's our common problem. It's a constant problem for every ministry and every law. One of the reasons why I signed the Resolution on the Legislative Activity of the Serbian Parliament is that in this Resolution, which we adopted together in 2013 it is said that the draft legislation also includes a proposal for sublegal acts. The explanation – so we do not know how to write a sublegal act is very simple to clarify. Write it down as if the law were to be adopted in the form proposed, so when amendments were changed, because no law in this Assembly, at least while I testify to the lawmaking process and participate in it for the past 15 years, did not come out of the Assembly in the form in which it entered, except one, which is the National Security Services Act, and this law, the minister would have to put very quickly under the bat and that it would change. These are the particular reasons why the law passed without amendments. So it would be good for every law to have accompanying and sublegal acts, not because it is a pleasure for Members to read, but because it allows the law to be applied. You can't apply the law without sublegal acts. This member, which refers to the application of a person's disappearance under special circumstances, will require not only a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure but also a change in sublegal acts. We heard here between colleagues that you should exclude the courts from that procedure, that if it's such a thing, then you can tap the phones and everything you do, because it's the disappearance of a minor. That's a good point, from which I would like to remind all of us that very rarely in our field of work, the Ministry of Security sees itself as a human rights sector, and he is. He is. And the more through dialogue we have this way of discussing the provisions of individual laws, the more clear it will be for all of us to know what the job of people we all pay to do for all of us who live, so that we can be safe, safe, that we can send children to school carefreely, that I know that someone cares about local criminals, that I know that someone cares and risks his life. It is also a job to protect human rights of any citizen who is in contact with police officers or anyone in the Security Sector. That's what we rarely talk about. We have a little perception here-- the military, the police, the security, that no longer, unfortunately, exists. The more we educate ourselves on how important it is to have a dialogue about what security is, the better it will be for all of us. The next amendment I submitted along with my colleague, Alexander Jerkov, concerns security checks. This is not the amendment I insist on, but he simply, as far as I'm concerned, was inevitable for me to endure it. So, the attitude that changes is within the scope of the attitude where security is spoken of and the person who wants to be employed at the Ministry of the Interior and I don't have any objections. The position to be added that the security check is carried out and based on the request of another body or legal person in cases where it is prescribed by a special law. If it is not clear that this does not apply to persons who are employed, then we will have a problem, because it must not apply to persons who are employed for the simple reason that there is no way for another body or legal person to possess information about a person who wants to become a police officer, so he wants to get a job. He's being cleared for security. So, that's all I'd ask for is an explanation. I know which other authorities or legal persons are entitled under the law to request security checks, and that's why I mentioned a law that was not subject to amendments, along with my big protest and I stayed in the minority, which often happens to me, but just because I'm in the minority doesn't mean I'm wrong. Because the way security checks are done in the EU and what we're going to have to do is a little bit like what we're doing. So, just an explanation. The last amendment we submitted concerns article 6 which speaks of introducing the right to an exception to the Law on invalidity and pension insurance for members of the police, for police officers, which comes down to the fact that a person can be 52 years old and 30 years of employment in order to make the decision of the minister retired by law. Why did I submit the amendments? Because similar laws or provisions have been passed in Slovenia, Montenegro and Macedonia, I hope with completely different motives than this member. So it was called the Special Retirement Act, and I have no doubt that the minister knows the moment, for example in Montenegro, Slovenia or Croatia, when it happened. But what matters to me is to make sure that by introducing this obligation to persons who are 52 years old, with an explanation that it's an extremely stressful job and exhausting, which it is, I don't dispute, that they are no longer after that year, so my printers aren't even fit for training, they may not be physically ready, although it's always for discussion, and that simply by law enforcement, they need this solution. What's my first amendment? As far as I know there's gonna be legal interpretations that it can't, that if it's all an explanation, then it says in this law that he can't do similar retirement jobs. I have a long list of reasons why I ask it to be in law. The rejection of this amendment will not be a reason for me not to vote in favour of the law, but I think it is good for the system to accept such an amendment. Let's make it an exception, but they can't do anything like that. The second amendment submitted to the same article refers to their rights as being introduced as an exception to the right, to be retired, to establish pensions, because as it stands in the pension law, they are established in accordance with pension and disability insurance regulations. Since I have great experience with the interpreters of legal provisions, they prefer to interpret legal provisions, I tend to suspect that there are interpretations that will give them a reduction. This reduction is almost 14%. If it's going to be a 14% reduction, then we have a problem, because he's not making a decision, or she's, anyway, to take advantage of the law, but by force of law, his working relationship ends. It's about my critical remarks, which is my assessment that I need to explain these things because of the social groups to which the provisions apply. So most of these changes and additions apply to members of the MUP. I deeply believe that we will all understand sooner or later that the Internal Security Sector, as well as the intelligence section, is an indivisible part of the Human Rights Sector. And, as I think there must be human rights defence in that sector when the police are in communication with those whom they serve and who guard, so I think they must also be respected and human rights by those who are members of the ministry or service in any part of it. With the hope that at least the amendment that determines the time limit of what is immediately or at least an oral explanation of what it means, I am not asking for an assessment of when this will be applied because it is not the obligation of the Minister, it depends on the agreement with the Minister of Justice when there will be an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I can only express regret that we have not included, in the context of these amendments and additions, changes and additions concerning treatment, or special procedures for violent persons in domestic violence. Since I know that, if anyone, the Ministry of the Interior has made the most of it, and the greatest results are in the fight against domestic violence, I have no doubt that that part, therefore the obligation that the bully, whether he was a woman or a man, was the husband, father, daughter, however, violence does not choose gender, violence choose people, or people choose violence, that he would be away from the common household, or away, however, as the members and signatories of the Autonomous Women's Centre, who consider it necessary. I'm sorry it couldn't have been included by now, but I expect it in the new police law. Just in the end for a little while. Since I know the draft law on police, which was done in the ministry led by Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, and then through a few amendments was submitted by the government, by Minister Dragan Jovcic, and remained in this form while the minister was Ivica Dacic, I hope that the new law on police will create space and the obligation to learn about what security space is today, what reforms and controls of that security space are and how connected we are within Chapter 24 and Part 23 with what we have very little information about, at least in some public dialogue. For last, quite recently a private remark, with the hope that the vice president will allow me to turn away from the agenda. I live across the street from Exit and I have a personal request that members of the Novi Sad Police Department, however much they can and however special a reward can be, because they did a great job in very, very difficult conditions. I apologize to Vice President Becic, this isn't on the agenda, but it was in front of me for four days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31821	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31822	Thank you. You're correct, as always, and I'll look at, of course, we'll help everything we can with the New Zealand police. We have launched a process of increasing security in Novi Sad, which has been fairly exposed in previous years and I'm not saying that this is ideal, but we're going towards a better state. Of course, what we talked about today is the same thing about all of it. Without career advances, without the development of that cop, without a real cop in the right place, and by the very number of people on the ground, we won't make an expected result. However, with good people and I believe in the Commissioner who I think is a very capable man and, simply to say, a large number of those brought in for crime during the Exit, above all for drug trafficking, for the enjoyment of narcotics and foreign and domestic citizens, but of course the increase in the volume of public order and peace in this period is commendable. We'll try to make it, of course, better. As far as the law itself is concerned, I want to look back at a few of the things that you said about security checks. They relate primarily to security checks on those persons, when it comes to employment, who want to be employed at the Ministry, for what the Ministry, of course, does their own checks, when they want certain persons who can't carry out security checks, and there are certain jobs that require to be checked whether that person is convicted, whether it's a criminal offence, whether there's any kind of security disturbance, to say, which is the basis for not being employed in that place. For example, from the state authorities, customs, tax police or from the private security agency, the detective agency, they can contact the MUP, and that is, let me say, this member of the law that we are making, that they are addressing the MUP and that the MUP is carrying out security checks for them, to say whether these persons have security concerns, of course, in accordance with the Personality Information Protection Act. So all that information that they don't have the right to get, they won't get. The information they have, in accordance with the law, will have the right to receive it. As for retirement, so in this case, it's about people who are only literally a year or two ahead of retirement. These people would go on regular retirement in the MUP in two years, at 54 years and four months. It's about people who spent most of their lives in jobs where their internship counts for increased duration, precisely because they did complex and difficult jobs. We, in order to succeed now, especially in these redistributions and organisational restructuring of the ministry, that one part of the people who belonged to certain units and no longer have the basis to be in those units, and it is not correct to put them in the cells, I talked to them. I went to talk to these people directly. I made all the units of some group meetings, where they told me – sorry, Minister, we never went into the station in our lives, we didn't work at the station, our business was completely different. Today, to go back to the station and do this job that we don't know well enough and we're not good enough, and we're going to retire in two years, we just don't have a motive for it. They're just not even motivated. And the fact that they're getting paid and sitting somewhere on the sidelines, filling up a number, it's not good for the police or for the citizens of Serbia. Then, it seems to me, the best solution is to ensure that these people go into retirement with dignity, and that the MUP gets a chance to get out of their ranks, with some people who slowly climb or fill in, more capable, younger, faster, more efficient, that's inevitability in special units. It's just that no one can be angry that someone more capable of coming, that these people fill those places and be prepared for all the challenges. As far as this goes, you're absolutely right. We have made a special member in the new law, it is the conduct of the police in the case of domestic violence, where police officers are said to be obliged, in co-operation with other competent authorities, to immediately take the necessary measures and actions, in accordance with the law, in order to prevent further acts of violence, which may result in physical harm or life deprivation. So, we have introduced a brand-new member of the Police Act that will talk about the police's behaviour in the case of domestic violence, as well as, of course, the sublegal acts that the police already have rules on handling in these cases. Of course, this is an important topic and we'll talk about it some other time. I just want to say that I also appreciate the efforts of all the people in parliament who helped in this regard because I think that distracting and opening the eyes of the public that this problem exists is the first important item that has happened. No one can deny that it exists as a problem in society, I was saying it. It's not a police problem, so now the police have to solve it, the saddest thing is when it comes to being solved by the police, but it's a whole society problem, thinking about reporting or not reporting violence, whether it's a victim or members of a family household or friends or neighbors who see and hear it, of course, that when a woman is a victim and an economic exploitation because she has nowhere to go, she agrees to go back to the bully, because she has nowhere to live, she has nowhere to go to continue her life, pulls those criminal charges, all of it, and then we have a problem that, in fact, the police remain tied hands. You know, when the victim withdraws criminal charges, the D.A. interrupts the investigation and we stop acting. What the police are going to do anyway, and it's in our rules, on any application, we immediately preventively confiscate the weapons that exist in legal possession. Unfortunately, crimes are often committed by some tool or weapon that does not need to be registered in any way, or illegal, so we rely on it to improve it through the work of society. As far as these remarks of yours are concerned, we'll look at them. A dozen amendments have been submitted to this bill. We've already accepted some. Mr Kovacevic suggested some during yesterday's consultation and thank you for your correctness in this regard. During yesterday's consultation, we realized that there are better solutions for some things. Mr. Zivkovic suggested one change which I would accept, which was also quite good. A few of these things we're going to look really to fix because it seems to me, from what I've heard, people have been convincing, with these changes the law will be better. We'll try to adopt that. I need to see with my colleagues what we've considered so far, what we've adopted. I'll see what we can do with this. Of course we'll apply some provisions. What you just said about the inability to do another job after retirement, there's a little constitution bothering us, in terms of the equality of people to perform any action. On the other hand, there are some laws, such as the Private Security Act, which in fact foresees the possibility that someone retired in the MUP has certain advantages that there is no need to carry out security checks on this guy. But, of course, over time, I'm always confident and I've seen here, I've witnessed that we've passed a lot of laws, and time has fixed us, and it's seemed that, as the circumstances have changed, we're different, we're more adaptable. Sometimes it takes time. It's simple, and what's done so far, I think every move like this is better for the Ministry and the State, and then, of course, we'll see how the situation develops and in some earlier years, as circumstances change, adapt to it and make even more and more life-saving suggestions. Of course, we will also see how the Private Security Act will live. We're in for the realisation of the Arms and Ammunition Act. These are all major and important laws that make up the security system. I end up with, what Mr. Kovacevic said, that's, I mean, something that's missing, and that's an internal security strategy, as part of the national security system. We've never brought that before in Serbia. I hope we have it, together, that we'll make one internal security strategy, since no one predicted it, for example. where the FTO system, or security agency, is in the internal security system, and who knows how to hire these people in case of need, and that's why that part of security, as you said, is no longer some bogeyman, security service, police, military, so now this is one ministry that talks primarily to people about efficiency. The more efficient we are, the better for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31823	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has authorised representatives of the SPS MP Vanja Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31824	I thank the chairman. I would like to point out one fact at the beginning of my discussion. In this assembly of parliament, therefore, in the 10th Parliament of this National Assembly, there are today two parties that have so far had interior ministers, i.e. two parties and representatives of the two parties that have so far had interior ministers, since the start of parliamentaryism, the introduction of parliamentary life in Serbia, are SNS and SPS. Also since 2000, the so-called changes have not occurred and one of the strongest parties has taken responsibility for the security of citizens in Serbia and appointed its interior minister. Everyone wanted influence, but they didn't want responsibility. They wanted to run the Ministry of Interior and Shadows. They wanted to run the Ministry of Forces and Shadows, they wanted to have their officers, they wanted to have their inspectors, they wanted to have their own investigations to influence their political opponents on coalition partners, and even their party colleagues when it wasn't in their interest. This could have led to a disturbance in the security of Serbian and Serbian citizens. However, in the period from 2008 to 2012, thanks to then Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, the impact has dropped dramatically and the reputation of the ministry and police has been raised to a higher level. I have to remind you, that is, to comment on some of the cases you said that happened in 2008, most of these cases were solved by the police, but on the side of the judiciary they didn't. The people who committed these crimes were either released or released after a short period of time in custody. On the other hand, some of them are still in custody today, so I repeat in custody in front of a special court. It was a reflection of the situation in the judiciary during that period. Today the situation is very different. Today, the interior ministry is headed by a minister who comes from Serbia's strongest political party, which opens up the possibility of proposing in one quality way, not only amendments and additions to the Law on Police, but also to adopt a new Police Act, which I hope will soon happen and that a new Police Act will be found before this assembly of parliament. I would like to correct my colleague Marko Đurisic, who is not here at the moment, and to say that in 2011, in fact in 22.11.2011, there was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Police, which was chaired by our colleague Gordana Komic. Today we are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act and those parts concerning the creation of conditions for police work, then, police actions in a state of increased risk, organisational structure of the Police Directorate, an article relating to the search for missing persons, so-called. Tijana's law, security checks and how police officers retire. I must tell you, as an authorised representative of the SPS, that we will vote fully for this law. Adding the conditions necessary for the work of the police in Article 1 of this law creates the possibility of forming two new sectors. The sector of European integration and international co-operation and the human resource management sector. These two sectors are extremely important. As far as the Human Resources Management Sector is concerned, it is possible as you yourself said, career advancement in the service. In this way, I assume that the change of systemisation in the sector will be the Human Resources Administration, the Police Training Centre, and that a major contribution to future staff planning will also contribute to the Criminal Police Academy. Regarding the new sector of international co-operation and European integration, it is very important for the Ministry of the Interior and the Republic of Serbia in the coming period, because we know that we are facing the opening of one of the most difficult chapters in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, which is chapter 24 of justice, freedom and security. In addition, the interior ministry has signed numerous international agreements on police co-operation, both multilateral and bilateral, thus giving the sector one easier and more efficient way to continue the international activity of the interior ministry. As for Article 3 of this Act, which amends Article 20, I would like to stress that currently there are three special units in the Ministry of the Interior. Special anti-terrorism unit, counter-terrorism units, helicopter unit. I believe that one of those two is, I believe that one of those two anti-terrorism units has also been created as a result of political bickering in the past. There was always a question of whether two almost identical special units in the MUP were needed. The answers were different. One of the answers was that one was in charge of rural action, an anti-terrorist unit, and the other was in charge of urban, or urban fighting. But reality was completely different. Both units were engaged depending on duty. One was hired one week, the other was hired another week. One was engaged in the security of one embassy, and the other was engaged in the security of another embassy. Regarding the airport, the jurisdiction was also divided. One unit called and secured the airport for 12 hours a day, and another 12 hours a day. This way this problem is eliminated. One is formed, and I could say, one special anti-terrorist unit remains. A special anti-terrorist unit is a long tradition unit, formed in 1978, and for the past 37 years, it has carried out the most complex tasks that have been set before it. Its members belong to the world's most trained, with a large number of awards and awards. They participated in numerous competitions where they won first place in tactical exercises, precise shootings and so on. They have one of the best and most equipped training centres in the world and deserve to be mentioned. Also, members of the PTJ have achieved successes both internationally and internally. They are conducting trainings that are at an enviable level in line with the world's world's top standards, which also contribute to the overall security of the Republic of Serbia. As a senior official of the MUP, and later as State Secretary, I witnessed a number of successfully realised actions both by the SJ and the PTJ. I feel a moral obligation to, as someone who has worked closely together, highlight the importance and effectiveness of the members of these units in the security system, but also to support the proposed legislative solution because I know to what extent and how their engagement can be more effective. As MPs of the SPS, we were thinking whether the helicopter unit should be part of this new special anti-terrorism unit or be a special unit in the MUP or should remain as already proposed as a separate special unit of the MUP. And we've also been thinking on the basis of certain definitions that we've managed to find, regardless of the unique definition of special units where special units are said to involve, above all, those units that carry out tasks that essentially give up on others in the first place, the way and the place of execution and the necessary equipment and the weapons. However, after consulting him, which was held yesterday in this building in the home of the National Assembly, we gave up these amendments and we believe that the proposed solution is that the helicopter unit be a special unit, first of all, that the helicopter unit is used not only in special actions but also in other actions such as evacuation of injured and sick, traffic control, fire extinguishing and other emergency situations. On the other hand, however, we were also considering the amendment that you, as minister, are giving a warrant to hire a helicopter unit. Also, after the consultation, we gave up, but we intervened with the amendment that when special units are hired to immediately and without delay, the Minister of the Interior will be informed of their engagement. I hope you will consider this proposal, and we will discuss it in more detail in the discussion of details. We also support the formation of a personal and object security unit instead of the current administration at the ministry's headquarters, but for some future time we have a duty to remove the witness protection unit from the MUP. We are aware that such a thing requires amending other laws, not just the Police Act. We believe that this unit is a burden for the MUP, both in financial and organisational terms and in formation. The logical solution is for it to be moved to the Justice Ministry, which is a practice in most modern democratic states. In Article 4 of this Act, Article 72 is amended as follows: The law on police to whom the new position 6 is added, which is unfortunately the result of a tragic event that occurred in the near past. Unfortunately, the tragedy has forced our deputies to discuss today, in the day of voting, I hope with all our heart to support the addition of this attitude, which police officers undertake to immediately take action to find the missing person who is the basis for the suspicion that he is a victim of a crime. The paper is that police officers are obliged to organise the search not only with other state bodies, but also with citizens and associations, as it makes it easier to find missing persons. This way I'd like to thank everyone who helped to find a solution to this situation. We owe you Mr. Minister, your associates, the professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, associations and experts from different fields, public and media, and ultimately a great debt of gratitude to the father of the brutally murdered Tijana Juric. Members of the law relating to security checks, relating to compliance with the laws already passed, such as the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, the Law on Physical and Technical Security, which is in line with the practice of European states, are also amended. As regards Article 6 of this Act, which amends Article 139, which is added to Article 139a, we will support this proposal and this member of the law, given that we fully support your reasoning submitted under this law. In the end, I'd like to say that the SPS in the voting day will support these amendments and additions to the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31825	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31826	I just want to thank you for yesterday and today's discussion. I think that through the experience of people and you who have performed this function in the MUP, in the previous period, and you have insight into a lot of things that happen in the Ministry and what our organisational structure looks like, through good consultations, through good and quality exchange of arguments, we have come to a good legal solution. I'm going to ask all the MPs, and I'm going to ask you, of course, as someone who understands it better than anyone who hasn't done this job, that when it comes to the new law on the police, we take a good look at this law, that we try to apply all the best solutions, that we don't reduce the operational ability of the police to do their job, and that we actually get something that's more effective and better than it was before. Anyway, thank you for the correct discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31827	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the mandated representative of SNS National MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go, Mrs. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31828	Thank you, Chairman. Honored Minister Stefanovic with his associates, dear fellow MPs, is somehow being set up after each other, but whenever I am authorized in front of the SNS for a certain law, agreement has been reached and everyone in parliament votes in favour of the bill. I would not attribute it to happiness, rather I would like to join the comments of previous MPs who have confirmed that there is serious, long-term work, dedicated work, not just working groups within the MUP, but all of us MPs who have worked intensively on this bill in the previous days. When I tell us MPs, who were working on the preparation of this bill, I mean the process of getting to know each other, because Minister Stefanovic and his associates during yesterday, and also today, because during the afternoon we had a Defence and Home Affairs Committee, where we also talked about this law, really made it clear that there were many ambiguities that existed with MPs, then some other illogical things that had been done to the MPs. The consultations we had yesterday, as well as today's committee, have contributed to the fact that many amendments that have been submitted have been withdrawn before the debate, which I think is a really good sign that we are seriously committed to working on the bill's proposals. There is an intention to correct something in the bill, and after consulting the minister and working group within the MUP, amendments are withdrawn to make us as effective, constructive in our work as possible, in order to save time at the end of the line. I am saying all of this because I want to, and I want to do so in every presentation and every presentation of this high house in Serbia, I want to fix the picture of both the Serbian Parliament and the MPs, especially the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know, every step made by the People's MP of the Republic of Serbia whether it's a woman or a man is strictly assessed, especially in the Serbian media. I think that every negative comment about us always gets times ten space, to try to highlight those good things as did colleague Gordana Komic, as did Vanja Vukic, as many who spoke today. We should tell the citizens that together we are introducing some practices that are not prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but which have proved to be extremely useful to us MPs in the first place, who ultimately vote for the form of the law that we agree on during the debate, either in principle or in amendments. We have received 14 amendments by the beginning of this debate, which is not a large number, and I do not expect a particularly difficult debate tomorrow either. I expect her to be in the service of clarifying the new details of this bill. What could have been heard, and in a conversation with colleagues who told me what they were going to talk about later, or tomorrow when we discuss amendments, or Thursday, I see that they feel both opposition and position, that more and more laws are coming into line with the needs of citizens, that usually the government has been trying, that's nothing new, that's happening everywhere in the world, that in the first place, that we put ourselves in office, that in the first place we provide ourselves with opportunities and privileges. More and more laws in Serbia meet the needs of citizens, in co-operation with NGOs, associations of citizens, trade unions, the voice of civil society is increasingly being built into Serbia's legislative framework. I think it's one value, a new democratic value that needs to grow more and more. None of it can survive on paper if we don't want to live that principle. If we don't want that principle, it's a adopted rule that we apply through our daily lives. What concerns specifically the bill's proposals, this time I wouldn't talk much about it, because here's the last five hours we've been hearing about it, all our colleagues have really repeated the changes to the law. What is the point is that these amendments of the law only provide a legal basis, a legal possibility that what imposes on us practice and daily life can now be done without being in conflict with the law, or that we are covered by a legal document within the legal framework we are moving. All these changes only cover, i.e. they find a legal solution to the current problems that the MUP encounters on a daily basis. There were also questions why, when a new law on police is being prepared, we are now doing these amendments to the law, we could hear it in the presentation of Minister Stefanovic, that it is indeed a very, very detailed and complex process of making a new law to the police and that it is currently in the translation phase, in order to be addressed to the European Commission, and after that I think that what has been heard by fellow Djurisic that we should all insist and put as much pressure as possible, especially us from Parliament, in order to get to the agenda as soon as possible, because we all need it. So, these changes to the law of the existing police are just an emergency, so what makes us live daily. Of course, the SNS, or our parliamentary group, will vote in favour of this bill in the voting day. I would like to point out once again that everyone in the Serbian Parliament will support this bill, but what is more important, we will certainly talk about it Thursday when we talk about the amendments, is that we are all really living that story that we are going to vote for on Thursday, especially when it comes to "Tian's Law", which my colleagues also spoke of, much more during today. I think that by creating a legal framework for the MUP to co-operate with citizens' associations and other legal entities, the NGO sector of the media, by creating only one beginning. We all have to be part of this story and this Amber alarm, or so this collective alarm, the launch of a society in an alarming situation has to be our way of acting. But, I say, these are the beginnings of some new conduct in Serbian society where we're all learning some new rules and it's very difficult to be a responsible citizen who has a certain degree of civil consciousness and knows how to use it. I thank everyone once again, especially the members of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, who worked intensively during the previous period to get the best possible bill. I hope that the media will pay a little more attention to this and see with Serbian MPs indeed have the citizens' interest in the first place. This bill confirms it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31829	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. Since there are no more reported by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31830	Thank you. In the expectation of a new law on long-awaited police I understand that deadlines do not have to be exactly respected month after month, but it should already appear and it would be good to allow us then a longer period of time to get acquainted with this law regardless of the existence of a public debate. Public debate is part of the processing of the law, and what MPs need to say about it is one other part. So I expect it to be as soon as possible. In this bill we have six or seven members, seven, with this seventh technical and that's good change. I have submitted two amendments after the consultation I gave up on one when it was explained to me that early retirement applies to all categories of US from one to four or how many of them there are, so I withdrew it, and the amendment to Article 2 which amends Article 20 of the existing law and where in the last paragraph of that law, in the last paragraph, it is written – the engagement proposal contains a security assessment and a plan which can be submitted later on in how many reasons of urgency it is. My proposal is to delete this second part of the sentence, i.e. to erase that whole position and to read – the engagement proposal contains a security assessment and a plan of activity, without being able to do so later, because if that option is kept then it is possible, in poor interpretation, with malicious interpretation that the plan of activity is given several days or, I don't know, in some period that would give the possibility that the action itself would be planned when it is already finished, which I think is bad. I think the police are safe, I don't think, I know, that the police must have enough personnel ready to make a quick plan of action as soon as the engagement decision is made. I think it would be a good idea for the Proposer to accept that amendment. For all of this, I have no objections. One part concerns "Tiana's Law", the other part concerns the definition of where human resources and static planning are now being placed. It's all right, and I don't think we have any problem with that. What I'm going to use, this rest of the time, for what of course it has to do with this law, which is a few questions that are not exactly directly related but they are certainly indirect, which is, you yourself said about commenting on the investigation and I totally agree that it's bad for the minister to comment on an investigation by the police, as it is bad for the minister to comment on an investigation by the judicial authorities, such as the president of the state, the Prime Minister or anyone to comment on an investigation by a competent authority. But if you've already started commenting on an investigation, then it should end. I think there were examples in recent history and the assassination of Beck and others where this practice should end. We have one more question that I asked you in a public hearing, and that's the question of the Chief of Staff in Nis. Not re-entering the quality of the personnel solution that is now active, means the current chief, I think that a city like Nis has enough capacity and a PU in the town of Nis has enough capacity to choose from its ranks the Chief of Staff. I appreciate that the solution to bring in someone from Belgrade at that time was comprehensive and I myself had such thinking, but I expected that Mr Grekulovic, who was then brought in, would receive a six-month or a year-long deadline to prepare his successor from the local community. That didn't happen, and I don't think it's good for the police or the city of Nis. Of course it's all in the jurisdiction of the Director of Police and Minister, but I think it's good to mention it as one situation that needs to be addressed. The last question, not to be all nice and smooth, how will the Ministry protect the members of the Gendarmes who are in front of the court in an unusual process that occurred after the conflict with the military police?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31831	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31832	Here's to a few of these remarks that you've said, certainly it's not my intensity ever when we're setting up a man from another city to keep him there permanently, and trust those people either. I've talked to them many times, and they all like to go back to where they came from, because there's their life, there's their family. Sometimes it is, we simply don't find enough quality replacement and it is, of course, their job to prepare that replacement through operational work, see which one of the people stands out and who has the capacity to be and we'll definitely work on it. I will also try to make it both in Nis and Novi Sad, that these people who are currently acting as temporary officers because they are headed to those jobs, that they return to their jobs, or their cities, and that someone from those environments who is better able to get in touch with citizens understand the whole situation. As far as this issue is concerned, members of the Gendarmeria, who, I say, are before the court, have every right like all other citizens of Serbia. So, they have the right to ask for legal assistance of any kind and any such legal assistance will be provided to them, and as far as these of yours are concerned, let me say, the advice that was related to the operational functioning of the police, not commenting on the investigation, I'm running a team and I'm only trying to provide to the public the information that is important, of course, that the Ministry shares them because of the public, but I never want to say, if we have that and that, we're keeping it on track, now we're going to, etc. As you've seen, since I've been a minister, no arrest has been announced in advance until today, any realisation of the case, none in advance has been announced, none. Very often the media were in complete error, which is why we hold press conferences, and we always hold them for maybe a few dozen minutes, but never before, always after the action is realized. So when we bring these people in, then we inform the public that these people have been brought in, at least as far as my ministry is concerned, and as far as the work I'm doing is concerned. We'll see what we'll do with future cases, but again, I'm not going to comment on these operational investigations, I'll always tell them there's an investigation going on and I can't give information like I do. But I will give information when the investigation is over and when we have enough information or when it comes to cases where the perpetrators have, let me say, when he's been detained in accordance with the law, or when the prosecution gives a warrant for his detention, and the public's most important interest is to share some information about the case, because, let me say, the excitement of the public, like the abduction of a child or something, that the public knows the police are taking on certain things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31833	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: And Article 20? Mr. Zivkovic, I apologize, but you cannot ask in such a way. You can ask Mr. Secretary on your break. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31834	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after the presentation of my fellow farmer, are left with me to uphold the law, as he did. Since I'm not the kind of police expert he is, I wasn't the federal police minister, I wasn't in charge of the police. I was a soldier. I wasn't a cop, unlike him. He just commanded, didn't have a chance to serve and listen, but he had a chance to command. I believe he's a very good judge of that from his point of view. Since he supported this bill, of course I will support him. What I like is a special unit that becomes unique, unlike 2000 to 2003, when we had all kinds of special units. We especially had a special ops unit, in which some of the members were such a caliber that they were worse than the ones they were supposed to fight, or were worse than the ones they were supposed to arrest. This eventually culminated in the killing of the prime minister from 2001 to 2003. That is why it is always important to pay attention to special forces and I like what is united, because in a unique way they will be able to monitor and control. I also like the provision that, when a person is reported missing and is predicted to be victims of crime, that in such situations they react as soon as possible, so that, and we have witnessed lately, that they were, that they would eventually be kidnapped and threatened persons saved as soon as possible, or that the police might react as best they could. As for the rest, I have to say that, as in everything else, the state needs to be built, of course, and the police and these few provisions will help to improve police work and not to be like 2000 and 2003, to suppress crime. I think the time has come for the serious state to deal with crime, and I want to support such an intensities of the Ministry of Interior, Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I believe that police confidence in citizens should grow. I also know that the problems that citizens feel about crime prevention, especially that crime which is a business type, in terms of privatisation and various abuses of authority by authorized persons, so officials, various officials, ministers, etc. I have to say, our citizens would know that the police have to work in co-operation with the D.A.'s office. I'm one of those guys who thinks our D.A. isn't very special. So, I think it's independent of this authority, but I don't think it's on its own in relation to the former government and hence many of the investigations conducted by the police have not produced results, since the prosecution has not properly initiated proceedings with the judge for the previous proceedings, or has not prosecuted on the basis of information received from the police, has not prosecuted various cases. With that in mind, I'd like to know, but I know that it's a little harder than possible, I'd like to know one day what the police are, or what the prosecution has subsequently done about the information I've been giving about a previous colleague of the speaker, about that famous French vineyard. I would also like to know what was going on, that is, what information the police have collected and what the prosecution did not do, and should have done about the various combinations of Indian government, that is, the party of the former regime that holds the government there, which during the period 2000 to 2015, pretty much robbed the citizens and came up with considerable material property, from which I will only list some: a 250 square-square penthouse, flats in Vienna of 160 squares, etc. With this in mind, I have to tell the citizens that the police who are conducting the investigation, or who is gathering information in favour of the prosecution, are not the ones who can bring, arrest and prosecute without the prosecution, and that I hope that by renovating, I call it, the prosecution, or some personal changes, if in the prosecution, what the police have done, the prosecution will succeed, because it is necessary, since this country has been brutally robbed and ripped out of the hands of citizens. So unlike any previous time, the state has to deal with crime, so that crime doesn't go against the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31835	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31836	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, the SPO has long waited for a day like this when a law of this importance will be discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and will reach agreement between both the authorities and the opposition. This is proof that the ministry run by Minister Stefanovic and the measures taken not only within the normative framework, but also according to the results of police work are going in a good direction. There were several discussions here that pointed out that police were mostly under strong political influence during a period of time, and that is indeed true, and these are not events of some ancient past. With the development of a multi-party system in Serbia, there was one logical momentum. Our police after 1945 were formed as, above all, the political police, with the task of guarding and fostering a cult of personalities and fighting the opposition then, so-called. reactions. It is, unfortunately, that impulse with the rebuilding of the multiparty in 1990 continued, in its worst form. But what I want, since I am aware that this transmission is followed by a large part of the 35,000 employees of the MUP, that the SPO has always shown deep respect for people who deal with, above all, the internal security and security of all citizens, both personal and property security. What we have constantly pointed out to recent attention is to the political abuse of the MUP, which, unfortunately, has been and is not presently available. For what? Many of them are from pitets to those people who have installed their lives recently in the fight for European Serbia, I must mention, let's say, one event, where in 1993, on the night between June 1st and 2nd, when the Socialists and Radicals replaced the then president of the federal state, Dobric Cosic, that our MP, the Kragujean vice president of the then-spo, was knocked out here in the Assembly, that it was killed by Officer Miodrag Nikolic, who was a member of the SP, that this murder and many other killings with political imposterity were never lit up, and what the SP is certain is that this murder was politically motivated because Mr. Nikolic's uncle had been speaking at the Vidovdan Assembly just outside of this home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Renewal Movement fully understands all the complexity of the affairs carried out by the MUP, from the state of security in the territory of the entire Republic, and then at the KIM, and then at the administrative border, from fighting crime, to the fight for the control of public order and peace, to the security of traffic, to border security, to the carrying out of administrative jobs, to the protection and rescue of people and property in emergency situations, to the affairs of analysts, telecommunications, informative technologies, to the operation of professional training, education and training of all employees, normative and legal activity, international co-operation that has taken place through the signing of bilateral and multilateral contracts of a good level, the reform activities that indeed Minister Stefanovic is carrying out, in our opinion, in one truly acceptable way. As a result of all this good stuff that I've been talking about, without getting into specific details, we have, except, it seems to me, in terms of high-tech crime, which is perfectly normal that there is an increase in this type of crime, we have two trends that are good. The first is a reduction in the number of crimes, and the second is an increase in the lighting of crimes. On the other hand, I have to point out that in the "Sabbe" police action, when 12,000 people were arrested, the police had police evidence that they were people on the other side of the law, but unfortunately the normative justice system, the judiciary and the prosecution were different, and that one determined action of the state, when we saw that the state was seriously affected with organised crime and with crime and corruption, could solve it quite well. That dream we had in the '90s, believe me, I have to mention it today, it's been a really hard time. Because, imagine us, the leaders of the fight "For Europe's Serbia", some gathering was organized, police only appeared to shoot at us, to throw tear gas at us, to dissipate us with sniffles, to chase us with helicopter units and with special units across the East, etc. Today is the time, fortunately, different. On the other hand, representatives of the government appear, the opposition is guarding power from the people, and today police are acting equally in these situations both towards the government and the opposition. What I'm saying is, with all due respect for the work of all police officers and all departments and units, it's that most of the cops, I know you know, I'm saying this for the public, they just want to do their job professionally. They don't care about politics at all. Unfortunately, career advancements in those poor years had those who wanted the ministry to abuse for political purposes. And not that they didn't have the support of Serbian citizens, but rather they didn't have the support of most of the interior ministry employees. And often in conversations with people who perform very complex, primarily police tasks, we are often asked – why don't you from the Serbian Renewal Movement love the police? I say that's not true. Police, the military and the Serbian Orthodox Church are, in the opinion of the Serbian Renewal Movement, three very important and good institutions. Especially the military and the police, which have made good reforms. But what is disgusting to us is the political abuse of these institutions. And that's why I needed to touch these topics. One more thing. "Tian's Law" or the changes by which the police will have a greater legal framework for action is indeed something that is good and that you are doing at the right time, not only because of the positive pressure of the public, but because you think so, because we all think so in the National Assembly. All the other measures and members that are changing are good, and what we expect from the new police law is to regulate the provisions more, and the minister mentioned earlier, which concerns family violence and greater police involvement and greater police powers to prevent domestic violence or, if domestic violence already occurs, not to be in the longer term. That is why the Serbian Renewal Movement in the Day of Votes with great satisfaction will not only support your work but also vote for amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31837	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Police and these amendments to the law were necessary, if nothing else, because of Article 72. But I'm simply not going to waste any time and I'm going to try to analyze some members of the law, especially Article 14a. Yesterday, Mr. Minister, if you remember, we spoke about it at a preparation meeting. Although we are convinced that this member of the law is being passed to secure the territory of the Republic of Serbia at any moment from all possible situations that could cause potential instability, but I personally think it is more meaningful that this article is 14a. defined as acting, when I'm talking about special units, dealing with situations that require the anti-terrorist operation of the police, not this broad. Yesterday, I was saying that the abuses of this member were possible, although I personally think it would not come to this, but certainly, the question of the possibility of this abuse is being raised. In order to use the resources of the Ministry of the Interior in situations that do not constitute an increased risk, which could possibly be declared such, i.e. Can anyone use this law, or better say this member, to abuse the material and human resources of the Ministry of the Interior against political opponents in the case of, say, mass non-violent demonstrations? For this reason, we have submitted an amendment, Mr. Minister, and I see no reason why you should not accept this amendment, where we propose that the Minister be carried out by the board of directors, i.e. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs within three days on the reasons for the engagement of human and technical resources on this basis and inform the Committee of the results achieved. This is not political, but security control of the police, in order to achieve a broader consensus between the executive and the legislative authorities in crisis situations. I expect you to accept this amendment, because it essentially doesn't change anything important from what you yourself have suggested. As for Article 20, I think that in the previous member, who is literally deleted, there was a better subordination, so it states that for the work of the organisational units he manages for his work he is responsible, so it is said, for example, the Director of the Police Administration, the Chiefs of the District Police Administration, which, unfortunately, is not regulated in this article, even though you promised to amend it yesterday. I expect it to come to that change. Also, this member is not a regulated organisation and the functioning of special units of police and the status of its members. The question arises – who now and in what acts is governed by the organisation of special units because this proposal does not state Article 20? I believe that it will be sublegal acts or regulations that the government will bring, but perhaps it would be better if the member himself, the one changing, had all of these listed. As for Article 72, as I said, if nothing, then these changes are important for this member and we are really grateful that such a provision is made under the existing law. I think my predecessors have talked a lot about this and there's no need for me to waste the time of the parliamentary group or anything else. I will return, Mr. Minister, and to the question I asked you yesterday in preparation for the meeting, although I received a precise answer, but because of the public, especially because of former members of the interior ministry living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. As for Article 139, I got the answer that, unfortunately, it does not apply to those members, but I would like you to repeat the answer you gave me yesterday, because there is a story down there that this law applies to those members, even more so that this law applies to members of civil protection. I know that, but because of the public and those people down there, it wouldn't be bad for you to repeat yesterday's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31839	I thank Mr. Bogdanovic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Dr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31840	Here's first of all just a few sentences. I accept what you said about article 20 in the subordination system. So that amendment has been submitted by the board and we will accept that amendment. So it's better defined, I agree. As far as these pensions are concerned, we talked yesterday and I told you that it doesn't apply to them because the member of the law here is very clear and he says that it applies to people who were 52 years old and 30 years old in jobs with an increased duration of insurance, where insurance is increased. So, simply, these people are already retired under a special regulation, and now you would literally retire people who have already retired, which would be legally impossible, but we're going to have to find another solution where we're going to look, not through this law, but in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour, the fighting and social issues, what are the best models and systems, given that one part of the people is integrated into KPS, and that we're actually going to have to see what we're doing with these people who are not yet integrated, so this law can't apply to that and it's not being brought in for civil protection. First of all, it refers to what we talked about during today, to the members of the MUP who worked on special tasks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31841	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has a messenger of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, as from our application for the word and from the discussion of Col. Komic sees DS will support this bill and certainly this is one of the laws that we need and that is something that all MPs who have applied for the word and spoken. My colleague, Comic, and I have made certain amendments. Our adoption of this law will not depend on how you define yourself according to our amendments, or if not you, the parliamentary majority in the voting day, but we certainly believe that by adopting these amendments, the bill would be better, especially because the minister has today pointed out and willed to accept the amendments and discuss them. Not to talk too much about what the amendments are. They refer to three members of this law. That's four, five and six. When it comes to Article 4 which is actually amended by Article 72, which is to be added to the new position 6, we believe that it is necessary to specify what it means to immediately take action measures provided for by these other laws in the event of the disappearance of a person when there are fundamental doubts that the person is a victim of a crime, that it is not a matter of little detail of what it means. Of course, I couldn't agree with what was said in this debate that in this case some other rules that exist in this country should be suspended, especially those rules relating to the privacy of other persons and are really in the field of human rights. A written warrant for intercepting someone's phone calls cannot be considered unnecessary bureaucracy or administration or I don't know what words are spoken here. It's just something that has to exist, so let this procedure be accelerated. I mean, that's the least of the problems. When it comes to Article 5, which is added to Article 111a, first of all, it is necessary to look at which article 111 is the applicable law. It reads this way – the person who wants to establish a working relationship at the Ministry data is collected in the security checks process with the previous written consent of the person and for other purposes cannot be used. The security check referred to in Article 1(1) shall constitute a set of measures and activities to determine the existence, i.e. the absence of a security disturbance. Security interference is a fact that makes it impossible for the Ministry to enter into a working relationship in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 110 of this Act and ultimately – the security checks procedure, the forms contained in the function of the procedure are governed by the act of the Minister. We are now adding Article 111a, which reads – the security check is carried out on the basis of the request of another body or legal person in cases where it is prescribed by a special law. Does this now apply to this person who wants to start a working relationship at the Ministry? In that case, how can an organ or a legal person know that someone wants to start a working relationship at the Ministry or if it doesn't apply, I can see that you're head-on, what does that mean, and what kind of security check that another authority or legal person can require? Who are those who can ask for it? What kind of legal person can ask for someone's security clearance? In what cases and if we have even four members on how security checks are carried out on the person who wants to establish a working relationship at the Ministry, then Article 111a really is not enough to write that some security check is being carried out, and we don't know whose or what it concludes, can be carried out on the basis of the request of another body or legal person without saying at all what kind of body, what kind of legal person can require someone's security clearance? So really this member or in some way needs to change or clarify or do anything with it because this is how defined he can really cause not only confusion but he can pose a real danger and may endanger perhaps some other rights that are guaranteed by these laws and in the ultimate Constitution to our citizens. Finally, Article 6 which is the last member of my colleague, Komic and I, submitted the amendment, speaks about when employees are retired in specific and operational jobs in police service, police officers. However, you said that the Constitution would prevent you from making it impossible for those people who were retired to deal with similar jobs as retired persons. But the point is that if you retire someone with a reason that he is no longer able to do the job, and the reason for such a solution is that such individuals are simply no longer able to do those jobs, how can they be able to do these same jobs as retired persons? So it's not just a matter of the Constitution and the matter of their right. If you retire them under the pretext that they are no longer able to work, then they are no longer able to do these jobs as retired persons. Of course, I will join the other colleagues in regretting that this bill did not include provisions relating to domestic violence. Whoever not only had contact with people who suffer domestic violence, but whoever had little insight into the daily press can see that domestic violence is the most common thing in the family with a fatal outcome, and that is exactly the kind of violence where the police several times and a few dozen times even reacted before that fatal outcome occurred. You are, in fact, the entire MUP has been working for years to ensure that the police who most often first encounters domestic violence no longer reacts inadequately. I think it would be very interesting to look at, say, the records made up of those cops who go into families where there's violence when a few days later, a bully kills a victim, because these are all the cases where the police came to these addresses, they come to these families, and they just seem to have left these people there to kill their wives or those they're committing violence. So I hope also in the Police Act, which you say is being prepared, but also in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code will actually be a place for this to be resolved and it certainly is something in which you will have the support of the MPs of the DS. When it comes to this Article 4, this is what concerns the already-known "Tian's Law", it is not unfortunately the first law to be passed and to be called by the name of some of the children who died in our country because of various things, whether because of the failure of the system, because of the disorganised system, because of the ineffectiveness of the organs. We had a chance to hear that we passed "Maria's Law" two and a half years ago. We don't know what that law is and how many people are listed in that pedophile register that was supposed to be made with all the DNA that belonged to it. Obviously, we have a problem with passing laws that we don't apply. Don't make this another one of those laws. I would just end up looking at a few things that you said or corresponded to one of the MPs or while you explained the law, I can't remember now, but you were talking about how this relief, or speeding up retirement, is going to open up the possibility of new people coming to these jobs. Then you looked a little hard on the pay cut for the cops. I think it should be understood that there are two public sectors in Serbia. One public sector is cops, it's teachers, judges, people who work on real jobs, where the problem is neither the height of their salaries nor their numbers. The other public sector is all those party employees who create problems both when it comes to numbers and when it comes to their salaries. It's absolutely certain when the IMF said that by 10% the mass of public sector earnings was reduced, they didn't mean cops' salaries, they didn't mean teachers' salaries of 36,000 dinars, but they meant the salaries of others, only it was the easiest thing to do was to take down 10% of everyone, not make a serious calculation of how it could be done without being wrong. Just one more thing you said about the fact that during your term of office, there was no undetectable investigation or arrest announcement. I think you're the only person in this room who can say something like that, who can believe something like that. I think everyone remembers you waving papers here condemning people in advance, like you're some kind of opposition, not a police minister, here in the Assembly, in television studios, wherever you get a chance. Not to mention that criminal proceedings are being conducted, or proceedings are not being conducted, but that criminal charges have been filed because of the fact that in the trials, which have been initiated against certain tabloids by certain people, journalists have proved that they have received information about the arrest announcements from the top of the police. It's something that, I think, could be dealt with by your ministry. It's not worth it to be surprised, I think you know what they're talking about. If not, I can introduce you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31843	I thank Mrs. Jerkov. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31844	Let me start with this last one. So, I never announced an arrest in advance. Neither you nor anyone in Serbia could have known, no one could have known that they would, for example. Tomorrow morning, you'll be arrested for that and that face. You've never heard that from me. It's not like it hasn't happened in some of the times before. Since I've been Minister of the Interior, you've never heard of it from me. You can hear after the arrest, just like I did. I always say, they're people who are suspects. We don't want to call them criminals, we're calling them wonderful people who are suspected of wonderful deeds, like this man who's suspected of a wonderful act that he robbed children distracted in the development of the Hetherland Castle in New Vienna. A wonderful man is a suspect, a wonderful man. Is there in this qualification that I said something that is illegal, that a wonderful man is suspected of a wonderful act of abuse of money from children distracted by development? The fact that he's a member of your party, a member of the DS presidency, it should be a shame for your party to have such people in such places. It's a shame. What's said in this National Assembly by members of your party, what you've said to people, how you've qualified them all, if you only took in this assembly of the National Assembly, if you took the records and the stenograms, not to mention what kind of epithets you've worshiped the people who are members of these benches here and the MPs and vice presidents of the Assembly who are now chairing, what's been said to this man, I won't even talk about it. As for employees, if we could just cut down on your party colleagues that you hired in the public sector, if only they could cut salaries, which are working in the public sector today, we wouldn't have to cut salaries or pensions, since you hired them so much from 2008 to 2012 that it was absolutely unsustainable. We've managed to reduce by 36,000 people, so much less in the public sector. So 36,000 people work less in the public sector today than in 2012. It's a dramatic downturn, which is a natural outflow, which is one part of the people we've cut off from different agencies. Not enough, I agree, but at least we didn't set them up like that, and you've been gnawing like mushrooms after the rain. So, every week, there was one new one, with the director, three deputies, 15 assistants and one 20 employees who helped each other to go to work early and up to 12 go to lunch, with salaries that were much bigger than those teachers you talk about, much bigger than doctors and teachers and pensioners. It didn't bother you at the time, not you or other people in the ruling coalition. They've never stood up to say, "I'm sorry, the directors of our party are getting us this many salaries, which are rich, which they don't know what they're going to do with the money, let's give it to the pensioners. No, that was great and great back then. That was perfect back then. That time was great for those people, they enjoyed the luxury. We've reduced 36,000 people by 36,000. Unfortunately, let me tell you, I see you've never negotiated with the IMF. So everything that's being negotiated with the IMF, their demands when we talk are very precise. They don't talk casually, they ask certain institutions to cut down because it's about the number of people. As for those people who have a working-legal basis, simply when someone is no longer a special unit, it doesn't mean he's not doing any other work anymore, but he just can't psychophysically respond to demands that are so. After all, police work is specific. Working security, the Security Agency is much less demanding than police work. So the police have certain legal powers and apply powers that these people don't have. So these people don't have to apply police powers. A police officer in the status of an authorised official is required to apply police authority for 24 hours. So when he sees a crime on the street, he has to be ready to react. No, I wasn't on duty. It was his legal obligation. Private security people don't have that kind of obligation. They are obliged to meet certain legal requirements under their law and to work for the company that hired them. After all, I think you just said rudely about these people and I really don't like it – they left people to kill someone, talking about domestic violence. It really doesn't happen that way. The police are not inquisition. We have a law by which we must act and we must obey the law. After all, you know that since October 2013, the police investigation has been controlling and directing the prosecution. We inform the prosecution of every action, we inform the prosecution of every special operation, and if the prosecution says these people aren't being detained, that we don't have the basis for their detention, we can't legally do it. The police used to have the right to decide for themselves, but now they can't. The D.A.'s office decides whether or not we're gonna keep someone or not, whether or not they'll be held for 30 days, whether or not they'll be held for longer, whether or not they'll be proposed to the judge for a preliminary procedure to determine it, but the police can't do anything about it. What the police can do is talk to that person, file a report to the prosecution or file a criminal report, and the prosecution is whether that person will be detained or released to defend himself from freedom. This is entirely and exclusively within the jurisdiction of the prosecution, i.e. the court. What the police can do and what we do, these people are taken away from their weapons if they have them in legal possession, and very few have them in legal possession. When we talked about this Arms and Ammunition Act, I can tell you that less than 6% or 7% of crimes are committed with weapons that exist in legal possession, and 93% are carried out with weapons that are in illegal possession. So, the police aren't all-powerful, and we talked about it a lot. The police are trying, these people are really trying to do hard and responsible work every day, but they can't go against the law. I know that when it is necessary for the police to engage, they would like the police to be much more powerful than they are, that there are much more legal powers, but then some others say – no, it is a threat to our rights, freedom, etc. So, the police can do what they can, the rest is on the judicial authorities, and I hope that the prosecution and the courts will be in charge. When the first one goes to prison for a year, or as long as the court decides, then the different society will observe all these phenomena. So, the police can't break into someone's house and say, "Somebody said you were committing violence." Come on, you, we're taking you to jail, that's just impossible. That's not legal. The police can come, take statements, consult the prosecution and ask what to do, whether we're holding him or not. We can take away the weapons, and we do, but most of these people don't have any legal weapons. And after that, we have the D.A.'s decision to move on with that face. We're trying, of course, to always suggest and talk to the Standard for Social Work and try all the methods that will improve the situation in that family, but that's not easy. When it comes to police, when someone calls the police for violence, it's the final stage, it's the end, then these relationships are usually violated to such an extent that it's very difficult in a peaceful way to intervene. Then we ask for the prosecution's support. As far as I'm concerned, I'm always as keen as possible. I also spoke with the Trustee of Equality, and we have reached the conclusion that we are working on an Austrian model, which the Austrian police are applying in these cases, which gives us broad authority to do some things, but again I say, as in the case of detained data, we will do nothing without a court, or prosecution decision because we can't, by law. But we can speed up some procedures and give the police more opportunity to operate. We're just looking, and as far as the data is concerned, we're not asking for it to be an oral order, because it wouldn't be legal, but for the procedure between the court and the police to be shortened and the court's written order until the police arrive quickly, so that the children or the kidnapped persons can be found as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31845	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Mrs. Comic, I'd like you to say the basics, since I haven't heard anything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31846	The Republic, as an authorised representative of the Democratic Party, based on the wrong information the minister has shared here on the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31847	I didn't hear the Democratic Party mentioned, but if you think it is, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31848	What you haven't heard, it's easy to solve, it's got a stenogram and it's read, if the minister hadn't said, I wouldn't have picked up the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31849	Mrs. Komic, I allow the possibility that I have not heard, so I asked you, if you say the Democratic Party is mentioned, then you, as an authorised representative, are right. Here, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31850	Thank you. It's not good when the police minister is misinformed. It is even less good when party devotion allows the minister to pronounce words, it is a member of the Democratic Party presidency. It's not good for the minister, not for the Democratic Party. It is not good for dialogue, for which mostly the minister has shown the commitment and respect of the talks, but it is understandable. Instead of the replica, I'll share with you a short bass about when frogs and scorpions are on the riverbank, the scorpion can't swim, the frog can swim and the scorpion says - I won't tell you anything. The frog believes and in the middle of the scorpion river is a stab. The one who is on both sides, the frog, wonders, "Why is it that the scorpion says, "That is my character." So it's not good to be prone to a character whose ease of desire is to degrade, to degrade, to disqualify, because he's a member of any party. It is not good to tolerate it, as it is not good to consider a legitimate political struggle to be the slander of political opponents, no matter who did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31851	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31852	In order to illustrate to you, the ease of sayings to be qualified by a thief, a criminal, a war criminal is just as bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31853	Time, Mrs. Comic. I'm sorry that one correct and democratic debate has now turned this replica into something else. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31854	That's right. In one piece, I agree. You have the character of some, I've never qualified people as criminals, I always call them nice people here, you're all my witnesses. There are some people whose character is like that, they can be carried on their back by frogs and turtles and anything like that, they can't help but stick their hand somewhere. You know where they're pushing her. They pushed her, unfortunately, too long. I hope she will never be pushed again, as only Serbia has suffered from that. As far as our work goes, we'll do our job. All the information I've given is true. I know someone doesn't like them, but that's the life.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31855	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Marinkovic, on what grounds are you answering? Go ahead, sign in, let me hear the basics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31856	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31858	For the sake of truth, I see that some fellow Members of the People have a special focus, when here at Minister Stefanovic's Hall and in particular have the inspiration to say what is not founded in reality and in some real facts. That, as a Social Democrats, I will argue with that when it comes to labour rights and what is said and what the Ministry of the Interior is doing on this issue. Namely, one of the few ministries across Europe that it has, notingly, the minister did not mention a special collective contract signed with the police. So much for labour rights, so much for the social dialogue that has finally come to life in the police, so much for the conditions of police work, when it comes to new uniforms, which haven't been obtained since 2000. Please, Madam Chairman, let's take this debate seriously, and we'll have an argumentary discussion, so let's discuss on the concept of reality and real facts, not on a whole variety of fairy tales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31859	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I've already said I'm sorry that a very good debate in the interests of Serbian citizens is once translated into this, but you have to understand, when someone in the shadows has to think that way. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a statement to the Assembly? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31860	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected co-workers from the Ministry, fellow MPs, since today we are discussing the Bill on Police, I will begin my discussion with one thesis that we are all aware of and very often forget about it, which is that dominant social groups, and also political factors have always sought to put the police under their control because police, as well as the military, are the most suitable means of maintaining stability and order. What is characteristic of all the countries of this region, and thus also for the Republic of Serbia, is that these authorities are a symbol of the authority and authority of a country, but they have often been in the service of those who possess power, whether they have directly managed these resolutions or have indirectly exerted pressure. By adopting the law in 2005, a step has been taken into modernising and professionalising the Serbian police. The amendments and additions to the 2011 law, but also through the six-year management of Ivica Dacic, were further structured by the Ministry, which justified its functioning in previous years. Today we are discussing a bill that, in some of its provisions, I am free to say, also rules out the interior minister, which is another step forward when it comes to the professionalisation of the ministry and the depolitisation of the police. At first, I would refer to the provisions concerning the reorganisation of the Ministry itself. It is in line with the government's policy, when it comes to rationalising the entire state administration, and certainly it involves layoffs, but optimal exploitation of human resources. During the public debate, you've also announced the division of police affairs into police affairs with and without authority and internal affairs of a more bureaucratic nature, we can say. The improbable separation stances were carried out years ago, not only by the professional public, but also by members of the MUP, or police officers. In that sense, I would like to say that the SPS will support this proposal, since the opinion of police officers must be respected, because they know best and what degree of risk exposure they face during the performance of their tasks, and of course the nature of the job. With the proposed solutions in Article 1 extending the ministry's work to create conditions for more effective police work, we will create a basis for the formation of two new sectors. The Human Resources Sector, which, as you said, several times today, will provide career advancement, and mostly based on results and merit, of course, taking into account the internship of police officers. We also support the formation of a sector for international and European affairs, as it will unite services and bureaus within the ministry. It will certainly be easier to work on improving the entire work of the Ministry, and it will certainly be easier to monitor negotiations for Chapter 24. Article 3, which amends Article 20 of the current Law, indicates that the Ministry has achieved, I can say, a consensus on finding the best solution in terms of the organisation of specialised services that the Ministry can say, are doing the most prominent work. Merging special units into one, CJ and PTJ, and setting up special units within the directorate itself will contribute to an even more efficient implementation of tasks in accordance with the competences and certainly with your clear internal protocol. As the mandated representative of the SPS has said, we have submitted an amendment to this article, because we believe it is important that the interior minister, regardless of whether he will no longer be authorised to grant approval for the recruitment of special units, must be formally informed of the reasons for their engagement, whether we are talking about a special unit, a helicopter unit, or the future security unit of persons and objects, because this is one part being protected and the authority of the minister himself. Since this is only part of the amendment and addition of the Police Act, which should be the basis for further systemic changes, which will follow in the next period, as you said by the end of the year, I would refer to, in my opinion, the most important provision of amendments in this law, as regards Article 72 of the applicable law, more specifically to the addition of this article, known in public as "Tiana's Law". Unfortunately, great tragedies unite and change us and society and laws. I want to express my deep respect for the man who, despite his terrible loss, had the strength to disrupt the entire public in Serbia. Mr. Juric, with the support of citizens and associations and professional public, has presented an amendment that will greatly facilitate the work of police officers in cases of kidnapping, but thus perhaps save a human life in the future. As I said, regardless of the other important changes to the Police Act, I believe that the addition of this member is most important. Finally, I would like to congratulate you personally, and the MUP on fulfilling the promised and deadline within which we will make the amendment and addition of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31861	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go, Mr. Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31862	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, guests, chairman, fellow MPs, I understand this bill. Security circumstances are changing rapidly. The police must adapt. This is one step between us, until a new law is passed on to the police. However, I must admit that a provision relating to the formation of a special anti-terrorist unit within me is not only a dilemma, but a certain concern. First, when a new unit is formed, one must be made serious, not only security, but a broader geopolitical analysis of what will be security risks, challenges, not only for Serbia, but also for the region. I don't know who did that analysis. In one part, I see that it has been done and it is in the light of this law and it is said to be – the reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Police are contained in the assessment and safety risks in the Republic of Serbia that arise or change with the change of risks at global level. This can mostly refer to the rise of radical Islam, especially with their origin or change in the region. It can refer to events in Macedonia in Kumanovo when there is an indication that there could be a breach of public order in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You see, the dangers of radical Islam, terrorism and jihad don't knock on our doors, she's already here. Members of these formations do not fight in a conventional way. They cut their heads off, they use suicide bombers, they use children and they require specific answers. In order to successfully counter terrorism, we need to have formations that are qualified to act at both stages of countering terrorism, both in prevention and in repression. You, Mr. Minister, said, if I'm not mistaken, that the existing C.I.A. and CTU units had the same assignments. I think that's what my colleague Vukic was talking about, but I think we should make a difference. Let's just make it clear that it's important for the future unit, because I didn't understand from this very well what an anti-terrorism unit would look like, to clarify the termological difference between anti-terrorism and anti-terrorism. Anti-terrorism implies a set of facts aimed at preventing, that is, preventing the emergence of harmful consequences of terrorist activities, and anti-terrorism refers to facts of a repressive character, i.e. those which aim to tackle the consequences of an initial or already executed terrorist act. In that sense, the C.I.A. and PTJ actually made a whole, although formations were separate and covered both stages in countering terrorism. As far as I'm concerned, whoever wrote this bill wants to break up CTU, to leave the C.I.A., the current one who will get the same name but be new, that maybe some of the people from PTJ are being added to the C.I.A., and the rest of them from PTJ to either retire or some other units. Unlike most colleagues here, in wartime action video of what is meant by a well-trained, top-of-the-line specialist, in Kosovo and Metohija, in 1998 and 1999 and in Dulje, and on the Rugolska ravine, and in Drenica, in Kosharam. But you know what's most important for a SWAT team, to be on the team. Specialists don't mean anything. They're a team. They're family. If you break one team, you'll never have such a quality specialist again when you transfer him to another team. My dilemma is just coming out of these things. So, the C.I.S. is more prepared for urban terrorism. Well, let's remember the situations we had at the border towards Macedonia during the events in Kumanov. Who was next to the gendarmes then? Counter-terrorist units are more of a preemptive character. Gendarmes, as far as I know, it also needs to be reduced. Our security risks are increasing, as far as terrorism is concerned, and on the other hand, it seems to me that the number of members of the special forces that need to be opposed is being reduced. Whether it's an accurate finding, I've seen here somewhere in the explanation that human reduction will increase efficiency. I'm sorry, but there's no basis for that in any practice in the world. Let me remind you, all teams in America are composed exclusively of veterans from the military, former Fok members, Marines and others. What's the most valuable thing in one special unit? Are the weapons, are they top-of-the-line training? No, it's a combat experience. A specialist can't be created for a year or two, and specialists with combat experience are not only the most useful in combat but also the transfer and knowledge. Do you remember the action in Ninaja, when that group of Wahhabi extremists was arrested? That's when CTU, if I'm not mistaken, did the action. Terrorists dropped a bomb in the middle of the PTJ group, only thanks to experience and superior training and this collective work. No member of the force has even blown up a bomb between them. I think we need to keep an eye on the formation of a new Special Anti-Terrorist Unit, so that the solutions that apply are such that we don't give up people of top special forces from the anti-terrorist unit. I think we should do the next thing. So, to form to apply the solution that we have in the Serbian Army, we have formed a special brigade, but the continents have now remained at the 63rd legendary Nis paratrooper brigade level, so the 72nd were left behind, but were formally united under one command. My proposal is for Mr. Minister to consider, I don't know who the people who are in the Ministry advise you on how to form this Special Anti-Terrorist Unit, I don't know their capacity as far as they know the area, I guess they're top professionals. But to think about it one more time, I think we should achieve the next solution when that new Special Anti-Terrorist unit is formed. First, not to break down existing units, to formalize the C.I.A. and the counterterrorism unit, to create an independent intelligence component for them. That's what's missing from our special forces, without an independent intelligence component, gathering information about opponents, there's no effective fight against terrorism. Secondly, to strengthen the Special Anti-Terrorist Unit in numbers, precisely because the main and security challenge and risk, in the long run, will be terrorism, firstly based on the ideology of radical Islam and Jihad, and that within this new Special Anti-Terrorist Unit, a special group will form, and I ask you to think about it a little bit more carefully, in order to implement the programme of additional training, members of a special unit, through which they would build up already acquired knowledge and skills and specialize in countering Islamic terrorism, given that Islamic terrorists use, as I said, an unconventional method in their operation, so we need to have a new level of training, one special training, with a special group of people, otherwise, if only the goal is to break down and to lose top professionals and not to think on a good path, then we don't think that we't. I think that the security of citizens and the state, in the coming period, requires strengthening our anti-terrorism capabilities and that we should be much more thorough to talk about the formation of this new Special Anti-Terrorist Unit than we have here in reason. I hope you took all of this as my very good intention, which comes from the experience I have. I have been in many places where there are very difficult fights against terrorists, and I must admit that I am very concerned about the period, along with my colleague Stojanovic, who is ahead of us and therefore we need to strengthen our capacities, and I am afraid that with some solutions we can achieve the opposite effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31863	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31864	Since you've made a few serious remarks and thinking that we're actually reducing the military's combat preparedness and response capacities, and you've actually made a critical statement, and this has been one of the most serious criticisms of the current changes and additions to the law, but I'm going to tell you that I think you're wrong. I'll tell you what I consider it to be. Unfortunately, I didn't know until I got here, nor can you have all the knowledge of the state of our combat technique, equipment and everything that it looks like in the MUP, and you can have as many equipped men as you want, if they don't have armored transporters, combat vehicles, thermal devices, you know, let them walk around the woods at night like in the 18th century, medium-trained shooters with 500 meters can take each of them off, no problem. So it's not a number, there, people. when you spoke of successes, you spoke about the successes of the gendarmes, since PTJ was formed in 2007 and was formed as the then aspirations within the MUP to establish a political balance between some units. Here are the people of the Ministry who witnessed it at the time. So, with all due respect to the people of PTJ, I'm not reducing their contribution for a second, and I've said it many times today, both for the country and for everything they've done for Serbia, for all the tasks in the fight against terrorism, and I'm also not going to cut what the boys of the C.I.A. have been doing. They're the same guys, me the exact same, as the Home Secretary. Whether someone has personal preferences for one or the other, I can't have them. They are members of the MUP, they are your special units and ours and they are special units of the police of the Republic of Serbia. At this point, it's not going to form a C.I.A., as they do, as I recognize, in your words, friends from PTJ, it's not going to be formed in such a way that the C.I.A. exists as a unit that is now such, so now we add a few from PTJ, and it's a new unit. I said, we formed a task force and I'll tell you who advised me. I was advised by General Zivkovic, who is my advisor, former commander of the Special Brigade, participant in our wars, commander of the Land Army, an extremely good professional, better than me and you. So, with much more military experience, he did it and we're talking about it. We were witnesses, he was in charge, he was working, with specific information, with a special brigade, because none of us had ever commanded a special brigade, he did. The commander is our special forces and we're talking about the concrete, I've let them predict how our units can be more efficient. Our strongest unit, because I know there's a fascination in the country with special forces. The most powerful unit is the police of the gendarmes, without a single, seven or eight times more numerous than the CJ or PTJ, without a match the police have and they carry 99% of the cargo in the land's security zone, they're the ones who are in rotations in the land's security zone, they're the ones who provide the belt. We now have, one part of the PTJ, I can't say how much but one part that's deployed there, but they serve as a support unit and never a combat unit can deal with prevention. As for some solutions here that you mentioned about intelligence components, that's where we're going to work, not only for these units, but for the system that the military has, and we're going to try to make one more serious counterintelligence element inside the police that we know that our units are protected, but not in the way that it's been until now, to say that each unit has its own unit of protection that corresponds to the unit commander. That's ridiculous. In the military it is the VBA and that the security guard, so collectively to call him, is responding from the unit to the commander, or VBA director, he is working with the unit commander, but the director of the VBA gets information about the condition in the unit and can assess the quality of the work of the commander. That's the kind of thing we're going to apply, I say, I took a capable man from the military, I took the most capable people from the police, and we're working on it together. We also have a terrorism department within the criminal police department. These people are not exposed enough and are not often mentioned in public, but they are the brains of an anti-terrorism operation. All right, the combat units, they act when something may be preemptive or seem to respond to an act of terrorism, but those people who see what happens, who assess the risk, who detect certain personalities that can cause terrorist threats, are these people. They make security assessments, first of all, about terrorism, and they're the ones who respond and give vision, vision, and we're giving orders to police units, special or special intents, to respond in the fight against terrorism. I still want to say that thanks to this, I have to say, to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and this does not say as much as any courtship, but because they had a vision that, regardless of the difficult economic times, they took enough money to start the modernisation process, because one part of the technique you could see in the Police Day, with the help of thanking the SDPR as a company that helped and recognized our needs, and thanks to these efforts, we managed to modernise one piece of technology and one part of the technique in modernization, that armored vehicles have domes that have folded cameras and anti-infantry machine guns up to 20 millimeters, without the shooter coming out of the vehicle, into the dome or any other system that monitors it from the interior of the vehicle and thus increasing the safety of our police members. We still don't have enough numbers, but we're working on it. So, modernization of technique, it will primarily improve the fighting capabilities of the police, since you can have as many people as you want, if your technique isn't at a good level, you can't successfully stand up to your opponent today. Of course I think that combat experience and that people's experiences are extremely valuable, but they can't be specialists at 50 years old, they simply can't be anywhere in the world, so they can't be in Serbia either. Not to lie to you, one part of the special task force is dealing with the security of various protected persons or objects. In which country does the Special Forces provide the facility? Not in any of them. It doesn't exist. So, I want these people, when they finish their careers in special units, to move into the security unit, as you said, all teams or our hat teams, anyway, so people with experience are much bigger than ordinary police, because people who have spent in the ranks of the units of the police will be able to deal with security, surveillance, these kinds of jobs that are an increased level of risk, but they're not for special units. Special forces don't do that. So, I want to assure you that everything the M.O.P. is doing, we're doing it to make the police more efficient. My goal as minister is that when I no longer do so, I remain behind me a ministry that is better, which is more capable, more efficient and that has enough resources to face any challenge the police should face in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31865	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Dracun, you have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Momir Stojanovic, and let Professor Janko Veseinovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31866	Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I join my predecessors who supported these amendments and the additions of the Police Act, because while awaiting the roof law, the new police law, the practice imposed the need for certain things to be amended in the existing law before the adoption of a new law on police. But I'd like to look back on the proposed changes and add more to the aspect not criticism, but as someone's suggestion. I'm glad Mr. General Zivkovic is your advisor, top expert on special forces, and I believe he knows how to make successful special units. I support the proposed changes concerning the formation of the Staff Administration. The positioning of the MUP in years behind us was, by my estimate, very non-transparent. The criteria of career staff management need to be developed, and it is necessary to define how, under which conditions, with which characteristics one can work in the MUP, because it is not usually a ministry, it is a ministry whose members have appropriate powers that members of other institutions do not have. I would ask you, while we are already at the administration and for staff and international co-operation administrations to consider that the Ministry of Education, together with the Ministry of Education, defines in the general state in which we are today, education, inflation of private universities, universities, unclear accreditation of these universities, that the Ministry of Education defines, because of its specific affairs and powers, with the Ministry of Education which colleges, which universities with which accreditations can be credible when it comes to the completion of the MUP. I'm not going to tell you, you have, as a new minister, faced safely with the practice that people were admitted to the MUP, and at the places of the hygienists, and then under protective circumstances, various private colleges, highly positioned in the MUP, which is very harmful for the security of citizens and for the reputation of the MUP itself. When it comes to defining special and special police units, I welcome this division to special and special police units, but I would like to remain as my colleague Drecun for a little clarification on the formation of a single special unit of anti-terrorism units and existing units, Special Forces for Terrorist Facts. To be clear, I fully welcome the deviation from practice that our two special units provide foreign diplomatic representations in our country. I fully support that we need one consistent special anti-terrorist unit, but I'm asking you, we had an anti-terrorist unit that numbered 150 members of which was 60 if I'm not mistaken in the 90-ac logistics in operational use of three teams of 30 people and we have a unit, a special anti-terrorist unit that counts 300 people. The existing potential and security challenges and risks and threats that our country is exposed to, a question for you, your Ministry - is it enough to stay on the 300-member figure of that unique S.I.A., or is it necessary to increase the organisation and formation of a number of states of that unit? I think this second one, that you need to increase the number of U.S.S.S. states. It takes both the relationship and the relationship between the logistics and the operational work to improve in the use of the operational work, because there are both the connectives and logistics and everything when you see, almost half the unit, it's true that they function by the team system, they're the team involved. All the units in the world today... (Milovan Drecun, from the place: don't break them.) )......................................................................................................... Which doesn't need, which throws fellow Dracun, smashing them, but I believe there are capable personnel from these two units, to make one good single unit. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, not to agree, and many of them I know, not nearly 90% of them know each other, we've seen each other at the battlefield, that a little from the Lipova forest they walk on the base of the South, that they organize exercises together with the army, that they don't wait for something to happen, but that now in peace they work intensively on their training. I know that every specialist in the difolt, and I was also the superior to the Cobra Special Unit, was also this Mr. Zivkovic as commander 72. Special brigades and I know very well the problems and problems of special units of the military and the MUP. But, smartness that we're fully trained, I don't accept to watch a helicopter jump, from a supporter to a general watching that exercise, let's have some good practice in the world, and unfortunately we've got enough, we're going over the plans and training programmes of special units to redefine our plans and programs, to push out some special units to organize exercises together with the military, to apply that practice and to train ourselves because time and events in the near past make us seriously think about a very capable, very powerful, special anti-terrorism unit. I also welcome your decision to define the special units of police, but here I must say what I have said several times in this House, is the gendarmere's strongest military formation today, including the army and the M.O.P. with about 3,600, if I am not mistaken, members, but if we are Gendarmeria, as the most powerful unit we have ever used to provide various sports events, and in this country, the football club has now become a high-risk sporting event in some secondary village. First of all, who defines what is a high-risk sporting event? Secondly, when are we going to introduce a practice that organizers, football clubs, pay to hire a gendarmes to secure a game? Any security of the average match today in Serbia costs 150 000 euros, and those colleagues who worked at the MUP know. How long are we going to fund a ride to football clubs that are unable to guarantee the safety of a sports event whose organizers they are? If they are not able, then the MUP has to deal with the situation in these clubs, what kind of fans are they, why do we have riots in the stadiums and make sure we don't have to hire for every game of the Gandarmeria? We've exhausted Gendarmeria from being in the land's security zone, remembering them from Novi Pazar to Belgrade and beyond, they've turned into people who are simply exhausted from the many obligations they have. Defining police procedures in high-risk situations. We introduced the highest level of alert half a month ago because of security challenges, risks and the assessment of the country's competent authorities, and then citizens were often making remarks -- what are cops doing with long pipes on the street? Well, that's exactly why. I welcome these changes and additions so that it can be defined that the police can act, or apply special measures and actions, and even if they appear with adequate weapons on the street, so as not to disturb the public, because if we do not put it in the law, then there are numerous dilemmas as to why the police are in an increased degree of completeness and why they carry long weapons. From that, I think the purpose of these changes is precisely to that end planned. Also, I support the proposed changes and additions that concern the most kidnapped and missing persons. You know publicly that one stain has fallen, given the lack of legislation, and these proposed changes and additions allow it. I warmly greet them. It concerns "Tiana's Law", since it is generally known that the mobile phone of the unfortunately injured girls was still in operation and that if there were these changes and additions, the police would also be able to track down the monster and prevent its liquidation. And that, since we have more and more, and the M.E.P. is facing an increasing number of people who have either disappeared or kidnapped, these alterations and additions allow the police to act urgently and apply all possible measures to find a missing person, and then, according to the law, to seek the custody of a competent court, i.e. the prosecution. We come up with a painful retirement or retirement issue if necessary. In the structures of the Serbian Army, the member also existed in the existing Law on the Army and the defence of the member existed. This is the paper. I, too, welcome, because by some estimates, if they don't cheat on me, the minister will correct me, we have the oldest fit of the gendarmes of all the units of that type in other countries. And it is true that the work in the gendarmes and in the CIA is very difficult, burdening and that a man, after certain years in that service, is unable, regardless of his desire, to respond to the demands of that profession. As we've been informed on the Committee of Resorship, we've been assessed by the Ministry of Interior to apply these changes, somewhere around 500 members of the MUP will, perhaps less, correct me, which means I'm glad, that less will go away. Thus, this will not be in relation to the total number of MIPs, nor will the PIO Fund be particularly burdened. The estimates are somewhere around, as according to the existing law, these members are being severanced, somewhere the price of early retirement in the current situation is about 180 million dinars, and we will get on the other hand, as Mr. Minister said, young, new, capable personnel who will take those positions and enhance the overall efficiency of the MUP. I'd like to look back on some of the dilemmas that were said here. Who can do this, why do these changes and additions introduce the need for facial security checks and does that haletovian dilemma penetrate citizens' rights and freedoms? I have to notice that those who ask that question do not know the essentials, do not know the legal regulations or do not know the security sector. Requests for security checks may be referred to by organisations and institutions which, in accordance with the law, have the power to request security checks. No one can do that which, in accordance with the positive legislation, does not have that authority. It's the M.O.P., it's security services, not to mention now. So no one can ask for a security check unless it's regulated by law that it's in the description of the prescribed workloads. The second dilemma was how retired persons, when unable, can work in the MUP privately? Dear colleagues, they can't work in special units, because it's very burdensome, but they can be guards, guards, and you can't give them the right to comply with the existing Labour Act. They're not capable of what they're retired for, but they can do jobs... I'm sorry I haven't heard from the Minister of Defense in the Shadow, but we could talk about it. I'm in a very good mood, at least in the security sector, that we're in the middle of anything and that some of the MPs, at least I appreciate being qualified, to be educated in the security sector, so if you want me to be in special anti-terrorism units. So I won't regret my time to do it. In any case, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Police are evidence that this government is through practice looking at the problems that walk in the application of certain legal solutions, the needs of citizens and the desire to overcome them in positive legal practice. Therefore, if we wanted to wait for the adoption of the roof law on police, we would also make these changes and additions, but life dictates something that you have to change to be effective and these proposed changes and are complemented in that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31867	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31868	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Turnover Movement will support this law. What is a serious dilemma for me is what we just attended, and these are serious objections, Mr Stefanovic, who you probably least expected from the SNS MPs, which, as Mr Stojanovic himself said, are well understood in security services, the security sector and have been placed, as you said, serious criticisms, serious objections to this part of the fight against organised crime. This looks to me, Mr. Stefanovic, to an open conflict in the SNS on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31869	Mr. Veselinović, you have not received any replicas or injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You've been given the word to speak in your five minutes on the agenda. I ask you not to interpret the speeches of previous speakers, but to speak of the agenda. If you don't want me to, I'll move on to another speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31870	I will continue, Mr. Chairman. This law in that section on child safety, regarding the obligation of police to immediately take measures to search for missing persons, seems to me that neither in the opposition nor in the position there are any serious objections to this part of the law. In that part, my only suggestion, if you want the request, Mr. Minister, is that the law be applied, or amended, the Criminal Code, as I am not sure whether the provisions of “Mary’s Law” which concerned the supervision or prevention of persons convicted, who were paedophiles, are no longer committed, or limited in that part. You have not answered whether a record has been established and whether it is necessary for this law to be changed through amendments and additions, in order to include persons who were convicted of the offence prior to the adoption of the law. Maybe it's an opportunity to think about it together. On the other hand, I commend, one of the opposition colleagues said, your desire to speak to the opposition MPs and the positions on the laws you put in the procedure. Of course, it would be better if it were in an earlier phase, so that the laws in the congregation would come as high as possible. In any case, we welcome this good will of yours and it is evident that you have been a Parliamentarian and that you know what it means to talk about the laws in which you have been involved. In any case, respected Minister Stefanovic, I believe that two words may be crucial to this law, which could still be called supplemental or "Tian's Law", which has some other elements in it, which is prevention. It seems to me that we do not work enough as a family, nor as a school, nor as a society, of course, nor as a state to prevent such crimes from happening. Of course, the impact on the creation of such crimes has a general picture they create, unfortunately, and some media that promote violence, media with a national frequency. I think, Mr. Minister Stefanovic, it is in your jurisdiction in the part concerning the prevention of such acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31871	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31872	Of course, the Ministry has no jurisdiction over the media, nor can the Ministry do anything about it. If there is an element in any individual's criminal activity, the prosecution is obliged to react and the prosecution will, I'm confident, and react. As for what you said, I have to say that sometimes I'm not sure in parliament whether we're being accused of unanimity or accused of having different opinions within the Serbian Progressive Party, so I'm just not always able to understand it. However, as you have seen, two MPs have made certain proposals, suggestions, related to a small narrow segment, which are special units, above all to combat terrorism. I understood it as the best wish for the Ministry to improve its work in the fight against terrorism, as I understood most of today's discussions. So, the desire of these people is to make it better. Of course, do they see it the same way I do? No, but I've been a minister for over a year and I've been fully aware of the interior ministry's functioning system, and that's why I answer them in a way to convince them that what we've suggested is better than what they're proposing. At the same time, I know that there is sometimes a fascination with special forces in public, but I have to say that people from the police, like two of our colleagues who are here today for me, are the backbone of police work in Serbia. So they're the ones who do most of the work: the police of general jurisdiction, police working in police stations, police in the community. That, with the Police Directorate, the criminal police, is the police who do the most work. After all, the Special Unit Police Directorate and special units are less than a week. Six-seven these guys and girls are traffickers and police of the general jurisdiction of this guy, who do police work. Police, above all, have a job to ensure the safety and security of our country's territory, to ensure the fight against corruption and crime, to ensure the safety of every citizen in our country. I can't do that exclusively for special forces. Yes, in the fight against terrorism, increased risks, the gendarmes were formed when it became a need to secure a land security zone, and to strengthen police units due to the application of police powers to that part. The military may do so, but then how can a soldier take certain measures that fall under police authority when he has no right to do so. That's why a unit has been formed that can respond to the challenges that exist in the land's security zone while at the same time applying police powers. As far as these examples are concerned, I think we can find a good solution and what MP Momir Stojanovic said about the number. I don't know right now. So it's going to be a working group proposal that works. It will certainly go in the direction of logistics being less, because otherwise it is our task at the level of the entire ministry, and that those units, which deal with this work, are greater and that they are in fact able to carry out all the tasks that are being put in front of them. However, of course, we should always keep in mind what challenges are in our environment, and so do we when we are making security assessments, we are conjecturing forces towards all these challenges both from the outside and from the inside. What's happened so far is that we had once special units of police used unintendedly, used for tasks that could be done by regular police units. We're starting slowly. There's a unit called the Police Brigade. They are a unit of Belgrade Police Administration, an experienced, good police unit, which can in Belgrade, I am fully convinced, to deal with the largest number of works in the field of public order and peace and there is no need at all to ever introduce a gendarme or a special unit, but a police brigade, which will be given more space and to say their status, we introduce this as a special unit that will be able to show that it is capable of solving such matters itself along with, of course, the intervention units that exist in Belgrade, which are quick-acting units in the event of street crime, most directly. Like I said, Cor, the police's spine is the police of general jurisdiction, the traffic police, the police you see every day in uniform. These are people who work tirelessly, collect intelligence, patrol the streets, keep public order and peace. Of course, I don't underestimate any of these special forces that have their place and role, but if we're talking about police intelligence and community work, then these are guys and girls who do 90% of the work. Without them, information they don't collect, of course in collaboration with the criminal police, but I count it as part of the police administration, without that information we don't have eyes and ears on the ground. All this remains would be just a reactive function. So, as for what you said, don't have any doubt that what we're doing is going to work in a way that the police are more effective. I believe we will have the opportunity to work through the new police law and discuss new improvements. I will make sure that this law is published on the site as soon as it is translated and prepared. The last details are coming in. This plan that's in front of me is 99% complete. I just don't want to, and I've received serious criticisms that parliament has made in the smallest mistakes we've ever had in the law, and I want to do it the way, at least when this law comes to the National Assembly, that you can't say that we haven't worked our best to do it. Whether all the solutions, I'm sure they won't come out as they entered parliament, that we'll change it in amendment, and I think I'm the minister who's accepted a large number of amendments so far, and we'll accept at least half of the amendments that are proposed. So that's the percentage, 30-40% I always accept, because I think that good solutions, even when it comes to one word or sentence that improves further, I'm always ready to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31873	The word has a People's MP Momir Stojanovic, a replica, as your name is mentioned, and after that, the replica also has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Marija Obradovic, as the SNS was mentioned. (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. ) On what basis, Mrs. Comic? (Gordana Comic, from the post: At the presentation of fellow MP Momir Stojanovic. ) Mr Stojanović mentioned the Democratic Party. (Gordana Comić, from the place: he mentioned me... ) Mrs. Comić, is your name mentioned? (Gordana Comić, from the post: He commented on my presentation. ) Commenting is not enough unless your name is mentioned. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31874	Thank you. I belong to a group of MPs who rarely report for the replica, as you know, the Honorable Chairman, but there are moments when a man must simply react, since I have been called. I am very grateful to the minister for explaining some of the dilemmas about my exposure, but who, grandma about the wrinkles, and the opposition to the conflicts in SNS. You know, my presentation and the presentation of my colleague Drecun, and someone calculated that I voted against the government's proposal seven times, which is not true, I must have voted against, shows that this party, or my party, the Serbian Progressive Party, rests on democratic principles and that everyone can freely state his opinion and does not suffer the consequences of the stated attitude. There are rumours spread across Serbia about alleged clashes in SNS, so citizens complain not to pay for the heating, to exclude themselves from central heating, so that some lobbyes give them, like my town Nisu, boilers, and then scratch them on the pellets, a pellets-making lobby, but citizens will soon see who is lying to them and who is telling the truth. So stay out of the SNS conflict. The Serbian Progressive Party is unique and you know it well. Let's do something else, because you can see that no one lynched me because I once had a different attitude or objection to the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31875	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Marija Obradovic, for mentioning the Serbian Progressive Party, for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31876	Thank you, Chairman. To refer to the presentation of dear counterpart Moma Stojanovic, we are in the Serbian parliament today are witnessing two newspapers, but in this direction will be debated in the Serbian parliament in the future, because the degree of political culture is growing, as we develop and how we become a more democratic society. We saw two things. We have seen that the opposition and the position together work, extremely committed, on a better proposal of the law, in the first place because we have seen that the task force of the ministry, headed by the minister, has invested extraordinary energy and efforts to get this kind of proposal. That's the first thing. Another thing, that for so-called. Raisers from the Serbian Progressive Party do not apply what is in the media. As much as we've heard the contributions on different televisions -- can anyone vote against the majority proposal, can anyone say anything different? Today you witnessed an extremely good example that truly appreciates a serious and good argument, a reasoned debate, that we support different proposals and attitudes, because it contributes to a better solution. The same debates can be heard by those who follow the work of our Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Because as the ruling majority, we have a large number of members and most of them, and on that committee, as well as on the other, and I have only three members of the opposition. So, out of the 17 seats on the Committee, you can't expect only those three opposition MPs to comment on the proposals...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31877	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31878	I'm just finishing up. That is why the good part, both counterpart Stojanovic and counterpart Dracun, are giving numerous discussions on our committee. But whoever listened well could hear that the minister in his reasoning, after the presentation of Stojanovic and Drecun, had just explained some of the dilemmas they had both. So, a new degree of political culture, political maturity. It's a difficult process, but we have to help all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31879	These were replicas of Mr. Veselinovic's exposure. We're going back to the agenda. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be as brief as possible, as possible, and to stick to the strict framework of this agenda point, unlike an independent MP who did not. But it's something that's slowly already becoming his manners and I wouldn't particularly comment on it. Mr. Chairman, you know, it's easy for him to act like one. He doesn't feel any responsibility, he doesn't feel responsible for either the party or the voters, especially not the voters because they're not there. But I wouldn't waste my time on him. Today we are discussing an important bill, a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. What I want to stress is that I support today's amendments and additions to the Law, which relate to changes in six members of the existing Law, because I consider them useful, affirmative, and will produce positive effects in practice, or in the functioning of the police. I cannot help but express myself positively to one practice introduced here in the National Assembly, when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior, and it concerns the consultations of ministers with parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, both from the ruling party and from the opposition. And that's what's good and that's what's already slowly giving certain shifts and results. Although it is intensively working on the new law, as someone said, of a roof police law that we expect in the autumn, which will functionally and comprehensively regulate this area, the necessary reforms continue to improve the situation in this area, I believe these changes are necessary because they refer to very important segments. As we can see, these changes provide for the creation of conditions for the education of new sectors – the human resource management sector and the sector for strategic planning, international co-operation and European integration. I think it's good and it's important because, among other things, as you said, Mr. Minister, improvements in the career advancement model in the police, movements through staff services, as well as the training and training of employees. I also view the changes contained in Article 2 positively. The bill, which refers to police conduct in a state of increased risk. These changes create a legal basis for the operation of the Ministry of the Interior in changed conditions, therefore, in conditions of increased public security risk, the risk of public order violations in greater scope, as well as endangering the security of people and property. When it comes to amendments to the Law treated by Article 3, I would point out that there is a reorganisation of special and special units of police, as part of structural reform, which aims at rationalising or wishing to take advantage of existing human and human resources in the most optimal way. And recent developments in Macedonia are something that speaks in favour of the need to regulate the area. It is important to point out that the amendments contained in Article 4, which can also be called part of the so-called ". "Tiana's Law", which we have heard a lot about today, and for which there is a great public interest. This article creates a legal basis for police to respond and take actions without delay in cases where a person has been reported to be missing, so immediately upon application. Finally, I would also like to point out that with a group of six SNS MPs, I have proposed an amendment to this law. We have proposed an amendment so that instead of the eighth day of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" law comes into force the next day from the day of publication. I hope this amendment will be accepted, and for all the other reasons that I have stated, I would like to invite you to accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31881	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31882	I thank you, Your Honor. Mr Stefanovic, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, dear colleagues, are today ahead of us to amend and supplement the Police Act. Given that we are entering the fifth hour of debate over the proposed amendments and additions, that speaks enough about the fact and the importance of this law. I'm going to try to point out some important things, important segments that are in this bill, not to repeat myself, since a lot has already been brought out by my colleagues. Although this law is seemingly small, it has six members, without the last stance on the application of the law, I would not say that these are small changes, but that, on the contrary, they are very large changes, because based on these changes, the MUP has the opportunity to adopt a completely new act on systemization. As we said at the very beginning of the formation of this government, we will support every step that is reformal, which can bring well-being to both our citizens and the functioning of the state institutions, so we are for amendments to the law and this law that goes in that direction. We want to believe you in everything that you've stated in the light of this law, that you want to introduce career progress, that you want to introduce police reform, to correct some anomalies within the systems that exist and that you've faced and you certainly know a lot better than we do about it. We want you to believe that you want to introduce the effectiveness of the police, both in protecting citizens and in maintaining public order and peace, in countering crime, in curbing particularly organised crime and corruption. We also want to support reform steps because we are aware of how difficult they are, how difficult it is for one skeletal system that has long worked, often by principles that are not in co-operation with everyday action, how difficult it is to reform such a system. However, of course we will not provide you with blank support, and we will follow our work, all that is positive, as I said, we will support, we will try to make a contribution to making both legal proposals and certain procedures that you take as best as possible. I will now comment here on certain members of the law again in the desire to make our constructive contribution. I'd say these changes of law have two segments. The first segment refers to the use of power, in fact the use and way of police handling at an increased risk, it is the introduction of a new member – Article 14a and there is nothing to object to, it is known that it is necessary, we have had a debate in society about it and it is certainly something that should function as such. The second part refers to the treatment and use of measures and missing persons' search actions. Article 72 shall be complemented by these proposed amendments. The law of the police. As a reason for the amendment and addition of this article, the inability or difficult way of police handling should the disappearance of a person suspected of being victims of criminal acts be cited and it is said that police are unable to urgently take certain measures and actions. By reading carefully, the current article in 72 is nowhere to be seen that the police are unable to take immediate measures and actions that they are able to do. Just when I was speaking in my previous presentation about the scenicity of the system, I'd say you can see it in this article. So sometimes it was prescribed that a search for a face couldn't be conducted until 24 hours passed, 72 hours, now I'm not bidding with time. Now it's been wiped out and there's a possibility of taking police action right now. However, if these actions and measures are considered to be related to the surveillance of communication, it certainly was necessary to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, which you have already pointed out, where it is necessary to issue a warrant to take control of communications by an authorised judge for the previous proceedings. With that in mind, I just want to point out the fact that recently, a few years ago, we had a Constitutional Court decision on the BIA Act and the VBA Act under the Citizens' Protectors' Initiative, where it was found that surveillance of communication could only be carried out by the judge's decision on the previous proceedings. Here in an explanation, i.e. an analysis of the effects of the draft law states that there is a possibility that the Code of Criminal Procedure should be amended in that sense that there is an oral order of the Judge for the previous proceedings. I support that, but I still point to the fact that such an attitude in so far's court practice does not have a Constitutional Court. Then, I want to point to Article 20, which changes the proposed changes and additions, it is fully redefined and as I said, this member is certainly the basis for the adoption of a new act on systemization. In doing so, I don't want to insinuate anything, I don't want to say anything bad, I believe you have a good intention, you have listed some of the faces that are your associates, and since I know the work of those faces, especially General Zivkovic, I can support it. As the SDS parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment in which we believe the position that defines the police director's department should be restored. I understand that the director of the police is in charge, but I believe there should be such a strict provision in the law and in the provisions concerning the police department there is no such thing. It's not clear enough why an attitude relating to subordination and hierarchy has been cast out...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31883	Time, Mrs. Malovic, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31884	I think we do. Which refers to subordination and hierarchy because I believe that this attitude was also the basis for you when certain police chiefs were replaced to be managed by the criminal police director. I don't know if it still is, but I believe it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31885	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic, you really don't have any more time. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31886	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, proposed by the Law on Police in the part known in public as Tijana's Law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed the police's obligation to immediately take measures and actions to find the person whose disappearance has been reported, and for whom there are reasonable suspicions that this person is a victim of a crime. I think it's a good idea, but I don't think it's enough in itself. I think it's only a first step, which is what the minister said today, and in the light of the proposed law, the same thing is already stated. I'd just like to explain why I think it's an insufficient change. If there's any suspicion that a person is a victim of a crime, then we're on the ground of criminal law. When we are on the ground of criminal law, then in a procedural sense, therefore, in terms of procedures that regulate and which bodies and what they are responsible for, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and not the Law on the Police, applies above all. That's where we'll agree. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is the public prosecutor who handles the criminal proceedings and who conducts the investigation. No, the police. Police in criminal proceedings do not have any authority to decide for themselves to initiate any act of criminal proceedings, or to decide on its own to take action, on its own, to decide to take any action or measure in the context of the criminal proceedings. Therefore, police are taking action and measures in criminal proceedings solely on the basis of a warrant or a public prosecutor or a judge. The procedure under the public prosecutor’s order refers in particular to what is relevant for the finding of a person whose disappearance has been reported, which is to obtain records of the resulting telephone communication, the use of the base stations and the location from which the communication takes place. Then what kind of situation do we have? Under the proposed amendment of the Police Act, police must respond immediately, and under the applicable Criminal Procedure Act, police must not react unless there is a warrant, i.e. a public prosecutor's request or a judge's warrant for the previous proceedings. So, what do the police do? If he's applying the Police Act, then he's practically knowingly violating the Code of Criminal Procedure. If defined for the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, then it does not apply the Police Act. Whatever he's doing, it's not gonna be good, and I don't think it's fair to the police. It's simple, the police can't be put in a position to choose which law they're going to apply, because the laws aren't cookies, so we like some of them, so we use them, some don't like them, so we throw them away. So it's not fair to the police. What's even more serious is that this creates a risk for police to take illegal actions that, under question, can lead to a full criminal procedure. As I said what I was talking about, the less the government stated in its reasoning as well as the minister today, but the minister did not answer two fundamental questions. First, why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia not make an effort to prepare and amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, together with today's proposed amendment of the Police Act, would make one logical continent, in which no body would have a dilemma that applied the law, which does not apply. While we do not have these changes today, I ask the Minister to enter as an authorised representative of the Government, and not as Minister of Interior, he says when we can expect these amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure to enter the assembly procedure, because it is clear that without these changes, today's amendment to the Law on Police in a work called "Tiana's Law" will practically remain an inapplicable letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31887	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31888	I have to say, you were almost right. It was a little short, but here, you're not this time, you'll be next time. See Article 286. The Code of Criminal Procedure. Did you read it? Yeah, okay. The Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 286 of the Police Power – if there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed which is being prosecuted under official duty, the police are required to take the necessary measures immediately and to find the perpetrator of a criminal offence, that the perpetrator or accomplice is not hidden or escaped, to reveal and provide clues of the crime and cases which may be served as evidence, and to collect any information that could be useful for the successful conduct of the criminal proceedings, and the prosecution shall immediately, or at the latest within 24 hours, but no later than 24 hours. I tell you - about taking the store, the police immediately, and no later than 24 hours after the takeover, not before the takeover, after the takeover, informs the public prosecutor. What are we doing in those 24 hours? Let the child be kidnapped, cut and killed, and we say, "I'm sorry, I'm waiting for the prosecutor to decide," and I have him here in ten minutes, and maybe in ten minutes, we can solve the deed. What are we doing in the vacuum between the moment the police were notified until the first time the prosecutor called? Is it two minutes or 40 minutes, what is this vacuum and who decides on that period, who does what, or do you suggest the police sit at home, or at the station and wait? That's your suggestion. So your proposal is that there is no immediate action, so you suggest we do nothing, wait for the prosecutor's decision. (Vesna Martinovic, from the place: That is not true. Yes, you said that clearly and I can read it from a stenogram. So you're suggesting we wait for the DA's decision and do nothing. To quote you, you said: “If the Law on the Police is applied, the Law on Criminal Procedure is violated, ” which means that we do not actually apply this standard where it says that all actions and measures are taken immediately. You suggest the police don't do anything, but fortunately, the Code of Criminal Procedure predicted that within 24 hours, the prosecution was notified, and until then the police could take all measures and actions on their own. That doesn't apply to retained data. We're talking about measures and actions I've read here, that the police can take the necessary measures, find the perpetrators of the crime, that the perpetrator or accomplice doesn't hide, don't run away, that they discover and provide clues of the crime and objects that can serve as evidence, and that gathers all the information that could be useful for the successful conduct of the criminal procedure, which is not a little bit. But as far as I'm concerned, I've been very clear here and I'm asking that we don't play with these things. I didn't ask for a moment to listen, ask for no court order, no court order, no one to play with it, no brains, I was just looking for a speed up procedure. If I have to repeat it a thousand times now after every MP, you know it's not hard for me, I'll repeat it every time. So, no illegal acts, just don't take away the police what they can do in accordance with the law. We here only, with the great effort of Igor Juric, whom I thank once again, this is the proposal Igor Juric sent, I fully support him, agree and I think this is the best solution, to give the police the obligation to act immediately and to strengthen it through the Police Act. Of course, you have the right to vote against in the voting day. I am convinced that you will still vote yes and give support to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31889	The word is Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31890	So I think it's incorrect that you're talking about something that I didn't talk about and that you're interpreting it as my attitude. So I made it very clear at first that the proposal was good, but that I think it's not enough for me, or for myself. I asked you very clearly, and you answered everything else, except what I asked, and I asked what was the problem with the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prepare, at the same time with this amendment of the Police Act, the appropriate amendment of the Code on Criminal Procedure, to which the Government itself called in its explanation. I'm just asking, what was the problem with the government preparing a simultaneous amendment with the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the Police Act, and making one logical continent. The second question was, if you didn't understand me correctly, why, if she hadn't already done it for today's session, the question was, when can we expect such an amendment to the Police Act, which I repeat, the government says in an explanation that it is necessary to comply with the Police Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31891	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31892	We have prepared as a ministry and will send the Minister of Justice a proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure, since it is a complex matter of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with criminal laws it is indeed a roof of criminal prosecution and something we must seriously consider, since every change must be the fruit of a serious debate, so as not to accuse us of doing so from the hills of the valley without anyone being informed. I suppose the ministry will still have to consider and agree and bring about these changes and additions to the Criminal Code in a few days. However, what is important is that we give these amendments to the Police Act the right to the police, so that it can immediately start acting and not even empowering, but the order to act immediately, of course, by obeying the law within 24 hours, informs the prosecutor no later than 24 hours. As far as the data is concerned, we're going to look for that solution that's gonna be most effective, and it's going to be in accordance with the law. I can't tell you exactly when it will be, since I'm not the minister in charge of justice, that I can propose this amendment to the law, I can't impose legal solutions that we've already elaborated, we've been talking about this for a long time. I have already spoken with Minister Selakovic, and I am confident that he will accept such legal changes very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31893	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, you have two minutes and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31894	For today's debate, it can be pointed out quite briefly that we are in agreement, that amendments and amendments to the law are necessary and that we agree that amendments and additions of laws will produce problems in application, in practice, without sublegal acts, without amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, when it comes to the most important member of this law which does not refer to the internal structure of the MUP itself. Today's debate revealed that we have both the strength and the will to really talk about the subject and that I would fully agree with Parliamentarian Maria Obradovic, that this is the thing that is being built. So, we're not talking about people, but people are talking about the subject, not about each other, and I think it's one of the consequences and ways in which, before entering the plenary hall, they're conducting consultations on the bill's proposals. What still remains irresponsible to me is the explanation that a person who has retired from 52 years of life and 30 years of employment, who I say is not engaged in similar jobs, retired, has been mentioned as being impossible to the Constitution. That's quite a slippery terrain. I said I can handle the amendment, so that's what we're talking about. I'm willing to discuss the constitutionality of such a solution, but the terrain is as slippery as the terrain you make an exception for someone's early retirement from years of internships and years of life. So it will hardly be a constitutional explanation enough to reject this amendment, I said I did not insist on accepting this amendment to vote in favour of the law, but I find it important. Why do I think it's important? Because it will produce consequences for us in the future if we leave it out of the reach of this law by any provision. Why am I saying that? Because I spoke to the previous Police Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, also at the time of 2010, from the beginning about the need to adapt the Law on Asylum and to talk about the migrant crisis, and I illustrate this data only to prove that being in opposition is only the state of the opposition and the government, we are the opposition to Serbia, and in this sense I ask that our solutions and suggestions be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31895	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Medaković Todorovic, then Adriana Anastasov. Just sign in, sweetheart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, one of today's speakers said that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act has six members. It is true, we would say simple work and a simple story, but behind these proposed legal terms there are terrible things behind these legal terms that our children who unfortunately are no longer with us and our children who we have to protect as we know and know. The obligation is not small, we are aware that with one legal text we cannot install, metaphorically speaking, the "Great Brother" who will constantly watch over all of us and especially our children and alarm the organs of order or come to the rescue whenever necessary. But we can amend the existing law that will reduce unnecessary administration and respect for the form and expression of the oral order given by the judge, allow people of the profession to react to the shortest time and prevent the worst, what has shaken Serbia and all its citizens over the past months, what has made us aware of this is the loss of innocent lives. The fact is that the security situation in most parts of the world, and even with us, comes together from day to day at great speed and intensity, we have heard this from many speakers today. Serbia, as well as numerous countries in the environment, is faced with a migration that can be freely called the migration of peoples, distant peoples, unknown to us and to them. We are aware of the torment and suffering these people, women and children are going through and they want their free slice of the sky. But not to be fooled, not everyone who passes through our yard is well-intentioned. Some have set out to cause trouble along the way, and some have accepted these inadequacies as slaves and slaves to exploit and exploit them. Following a route of migrants a little lower than my town of Nis, where I come from, we descend to Kumanov, where terrorist attacks occurred some time ago. We all know what happened and what it could have been. It was prevented, unfortunately, by the great victims of boys and men who wore an honorable and honest police uniform. And we're very anxious to wonder if and where some new place is going to share fate with Kumanov or are we going to be able to prevent that? All that stuff I said, I said for a reason. Compared to other countries, including countries in the environment, Serbia currently acts as an oasis of peace and, of course, should remain that way. But in order to remain that way, we must give those in charge of our security legal authority to act in good time, and to preserve peace and security and stability by preventing them. Whether we want to or not, the legal texts need to be promoted continuously in order to prevent anything bad that can be prevented. Finally, the beastly murder of the girl Tijana Juric and many other children and adults, the migration of the people from Asia to Europe whose situation and implications are worrying. The expansion of terrorist enthusiasm and the flight of the well-infected and overrun by religious fanaticism and, of course, conventional crime seen in arms trafficking, opiates and people are just a fraction of the broad spectrum of negative and worrying phenomena that the police must fight together with all of us, so in the day of voting, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31897	The word has been made by the People's MP Adrian Anastasov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31898	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, as my previous colleague said, we do have one very important law today, and of all these laws certainly the most important thing for me is part of the law relating to the application of Tijana's law. In fact, an existing legal solution in the Police Act prevents a quick police response when searching for missing persons suspected of being victims of some of the crimes. Article 4 of this proposal provides for a legal basis that in cases where a person has been reported missing, the police have the legal basis to react and apply all the powers in order to find the perpetrators of the offence and the victim, using all available measures and actions without delay. What happened to little Tijana Juric is something that left no one in Serbia indifferent. July 26th last year, she was beastly murdered, and the killer was recently sentenced to 40 years in prison in Subotica. According to Igor Juric, the father of the deceased girl, justice as a system exists in the country of Serbia. After a trial for the murder of Tijana's daughter, he stressed that Serbia really has a strong will to make things that are not good, to change and that the adoption of this bill will do a lot to improve the personal security of each Serbian citizen. A survey has been carried out on the MUP site as citizens see the resolution of this case and over 50% of citizens have really praised and is satisfied with the efficiency of police when it comes to the Tijana Juric case. That the police and the MUP do much better doing their job also shows the next disappearance, i.e. One of the cases that rocked all over Serbia, and it is a two-year-old girl who was abducted in the Belgrade village of Brace Jerkovic on 13 March. With the rapid reaction of the MUP, after only two hours of girls being found and returned to their parents and all of us who followed it, we were really proud of the work of the police who showed that they were going in step with time following modern technologies and making us feel safe in our country. As we have already heard, the draft of a brand-new law on police is in the final phase, but the urgency of such cases brings us proposed legal solutions. I must stress that one of the strategic priorities of the MUP for the period 2015 to 2018 is precisely greater security of citizens and the work of the police in the community. Police work at local level, i.e. The concept of community police is the basis of police work in most modern states, including those in the EU. In the end, I really want to thank all the colleagues who supported this legislative solution, to say my opinion that Serbia is a safe country, that citizens in Serbia are safe, that although we have problems to work intensively on them and to commend really the work of the MUP and the work of Minister Stefanovic, to say that this is a country where it would never happen that a representative of a country, a official or president of a government is attacked and that personal security is threatened, and yet it happened in another country, somewhere else, and it happened to our Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and it is for every conviction. We are building a different, better Serbia here, and therefore I call on all MPs to support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31899	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasia. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31900	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bečić, Mr. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, with his associates, honourable ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I am pleased to see you again in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which you have chaired as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the past term of extremely good, almost phenomenal. It is not only the opinion of most MPs of the position, but also the former opposition in the past term, as well as most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of the citizens, we convey to you and to your ministry, as well as to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for extremely good activities in last year's unremembered floods that have hit one part of our citizens and our country. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember it and will surely appreciate it and reward it when the time comes. Dear People's MPs, and this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who brought here to us the MPs, and also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April, in May 2014. Of course, not to forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most precise, comprehensive, most concrete, biggest, 52 densely typed sides and the best of all 72 previous ones, since the time of the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Prote Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. On page 5 of the exposé, next to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic writes, I quote, gentlemen of the People's Parliaments – "Modernisation is a key issue for Serbia in the next decade, regardless of whether we are talking about economic reforms, judicial reforms, health or education reforms or when we talk about our relationship with the EU. If we do not modernise the country as a government, we will fail Serbia." It's a finished quote. That is why the modernisation of the MUP is one of Serbia's top-class modernisation tasks. The government of the Republic of Serbia has already planned the adoption of strategic documents and the adoption of a new Police Act. As far as we know, the draft law on police is in the final stage. However, the arrangement of some areas requires urgency in action and therefore cannot wait for a new law. So individual questions, as we can see today, will be resolved by amendments and additions to the law. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by such an approach, we will remove the adverse consequences of the work of our MUP. This draft law amending and supplementing the Police Act introduces two new sectors that I will not talk about. It is the human resources management sector and the planning and international co-operation sector, because my fellow Members, the MPs, explained it extremely well. However, let me say a few sentences in the end. Today, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the National Assembly, we heard some information that, in my opinion, is not true. Allow me, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, to present the information, and you may be a witness to whether they are true. During your short term, Mr. Minister Stefanovic, as interior minister for a year, you have achieved very good results. First, the fact that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia trusted the police during your term of office increased by 5% by a year. This is accurate information, not what we heard today. Secondly, the overall crime in the Republic of Serbia decreased by 7.5% by a year. This is the exact data, not what we heard today. Third, the number of car accidents has been reduced by 6%. The number of people killed in car accidents from 614 to 502. Fifth, in the fight against corruption over the past year, Mr. Minister, during your ministry, 1,896 crimes were discovered, 22% compared to the previous period. These are the exact data, not the previous one. At the beginning of the session, we heard the snowflakes. Finally, due to the time, I invite you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, especially from the opposition benches, because there is very little of you, unfortunately, to give your vote for this legislative proposal, because at least a little, even in this way, will contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which our Prime Minister and the entire government so warmly advocate, Mr Aleksandar Vukic and most citizens of Serbia, as well as most of the people's MPs. At the very end, I ask you, Mr. President, to pass it on to Mr. Minister Stefanovic, since I cannot speak to our foreign minister, to convey the gratitude of the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, for my courage, I would say heroic, cultural, civilization and state-level conduct on the memorial of the victims of crime and attack on his personality in Srebrenica on July 17th, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31901	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31902	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the Svrljig municipality, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I'll talk about amendments and additions to the Police Act. As a man, I was fed by a police hand. My father worked with the police, and I fully understand all the problems our people have with the police. The Law amending and supplementing the Police Law introduces significant changes and practical solutions in the event that police have to act in a state of increased risk, when events suggest public security could be compromised, as well as the safety of all people. Changes in the security situation in the region and increased risks have conditioned amendments to Article 3. Police law, which implies a different organisation of the police department and different personnel solutions, to create more operational units. The reorganization of special and special police units is under way. These changes create a legal basis for police actions in situations of increased risk. These are situations that do not yet require the introduction of a state of emergency, yet require increased involvement of police units. The law lays the groundwork for the faster operation of special and special units of police, especially in the case of terrorist threats and the increased functioning of terrorist organisations in the region. Also, one of the reasons for law-making is the citizens' initiative to set up a legal framework in terms of practical solutions and introduce applicable standards when a minor disappears, so-called. Tijana's law. That's how it's in Article 72. A law on police enforcement that allows for the urgent taking of all measures from police jurisdiction to find perpetrators of crimes and victims of execution, which is crucial for the successful resolution of kidnapping cases. We have cases of abductions that occurred back maybe a few months, when our police responded very quickly and efficiently and our police minister was involved in this reaction. This creates conditions for the rapid and efficient functioning of the police and the provision of adequate assistance to victims of violence, as well as the detection of perpetrators of the crime. The law introduces a legal basis for the operation of police in the event of the disappearance of a minor and prescribes co-operation and co-operation with other competent authorities, associations of citizens and citizens and the taking of measures in accordance with the law and their successful discovery. Police had previously called in search of missing persons within 68 hours of the disappearance, which had serious consequences for victims of crimes, and this creates a framework for the successful and rapid functioning and finding of missing persons. A significant amendment is introduced by Article 5 of the Law, which adds a new Article 111a, which regulates the conduct of security checks at the request of other authorities and legal entities, which was missing after the adoption of the Law on Arms and Ammunitions and the Law on Private Security. Now that gap is compensated by the introduction of this provision and the provisions of these three laws are in line, and we all remember that there was also this Security and Private Security Act. Article 6 of the Law prescribes the termination of the employment relationship of an authorised member of the MUP from the age of 52, or 30 years of effective training, thus allowing retirement of members of the Ministry, whose health has been violated and who have worked for many years on particularly difficult conditions. I'm saying this, I've read this, but from my heart, I can answer that our police have always been in places where other people haven't been. That's what I'm saying from the corner of a son whose father was a cop who went through the hardest of times and was always on the defender of our country. This law gives the possibility that people who are 52 years old and 30 years of effective work... They'll have the opportunity to come back younger, more capable, stronger. That's where the fire-saving units belong. I come from a municipality where there is a shortage of firefighters, and I expect that we will be able to receive a certain number of people who will work to save all those who need it in the municipality of Srljig, as well as in all other municipalities in Serbia. Once again, as an MP for the United Peasant Party, from the SNS list and as a Serb host, I would like to congratulate all doctors on the glory of the Holy Witch, especially our Serb hosts who are celebrating today. Once again, I wish everyone a great deal of health and happiness and that this year be born and noble, both in the field and in the house. I will vote for this law, as well as for all the laws proposed by the Government headed by our prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31903	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Milan Petrovic, as the last reported debater.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31904	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Police today on the agenda is a alignment with the laws already passed. We believe that such compliance from legal acts systematically provides the legal order of the state. In Article 5, this alignment is carried out with the Arms and Ammunition Act, which concerns security checks. Article 4 adds a view that allows police officers to take certain measures to save human lives, and that is in fact to comply with that law, which is why the Serbian People's Party will vote today with these amendments and additions to the Police Act. However, we have seen a few details in this law, which we would like to amend, in order to obtain a more quality and democratically-oriented act with a more precise application. We find it unnecessary from a technical angle that Article 1 contains the words "European integration", as it is already described in previous words: "International co-operation". The definition applies to the whole world anyway, and it is known that police services should co-operate not only with European institutions, but also with all state institutions and in order to carry out all their tasks. The system reorganisation described through Article 3 may be a good move if it is realised by today's interpretation presented by the minister. The application and use of special and special units must be particularly regulated and the assessment must be ex antely justified in order to avoid the abuse of units for any uses, jobs and tasks it receives. The term, purpose and purpose should be described more closely through certain regulations and other lower acts in these and other related areas. Article 6 mentions compulsory retirement at 52 years of age and 30 years of effective work. Perhaps you should even consider separating those two conditions. Maybe there's a solution. We believe that this should, however, be left on a voluntary basis unless the provisions of other laws in which it has already been described are violated. Also, these employees have long been invested in various ways, making them a disaster of our country's security and security. The special formation process lasted from five to ten years – five years if it participated in combat activities and 10 years in peacetime conditions. As such, already formed in their purpose, we believe that they have a vast and valuable experience in the fields of their work. Such experience in situations which, unfortunately, through various media and by certain individuals, and if we take into account the situation in the environment, is announced, could be of paramount importance. Their logistics about possible tasks can be crucial. We simply believe that the service can still use their potential unless they are ready to abandon it. For these reasons, we believe that volunteering should be a parameter to be taken into account in this article. I hope that the minister will carefully analyse the importance of the submitd amendments of the Serbian People's Party and allow us to improve the amendment and addition of the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-14-0.u31905	Thank you, Mr. Petric. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) and Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the Federal Assembly in 2015 will continue on Wednesday, July 15, 2015 at 12.30 p.m. by switching to the search in detail on the first item of the agenda, the draft law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights on building land with compensation. At the same time, I remind you that the fourth special session of the National Assembly in 2015 will be held at the beginning of 11:20 p.m., at which his Excellency Mr Martin Schulc, President of the European Parliament, will address the Members of Parliament, so I ask the heads of Parliament to ensure that as many Members of Parliament as possible attend the special session of the National Assembly. Thank you. I thank Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic.
