ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38666	Thank you very much for your esteemed chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions first row, namely, Minister of Police Nebojsa Stefanovic. Since we are all witnesses that recently the polygraph represents one of the most frequently used words, at least through what we can read and inform ourselves by all the media, I have a few short questions at the very beginning for the police minister. First of all, does the minister of police know that polygraph testing does not constitute an evidence store in our criminal law? Then does he know that the results of the polygraph test are no evidence in the criminal proceedings at all? Does he even know what the point is and the essence of the polygraph testing is? What exactly is measured by a polygraph? And does he know that subjection to a polygraph test is always on a voluntary basis, so never necessarily and exclusively voluntary character, like, and does he know that, in fact, the credibility of someone's allegations is determined by evidence proposals, or by the means of evidence provided for by our criminal legislation, rather than by a polygraph that certainly does not represent it? Furthermore, given the latest published report by the European Commission, where we cannot exactly praise the situation in our judiciary, in fact the judiciary is our biggest problem, at least according to the European Commission report which we could all read, and only some of the allegations that are said in the same court are the unsecured independence of judges and public prosecutors, and in practice, the political impact on the recruitment of judges and public prosecutors, public commentation of judicial proceedings, public commentation of investigations, and on the other hand, which we are all witnesses of doing so through means of public information. Then, according to the report itself, commenting is just the investigation and judicial proceedings by the authorities. My question is - will the police minister in future refrain from exactly what is said as a problem in the European Commission's report? Then, we also have one more question, and it concerns what the minister himself is when arresting the owner of the Concern, Farmakom, the MB, commented, I will quote him, "In the case of Farmacoma, it must be done as intensively as in the case of Kosmajca, in order to collect enough evidence to take away the property. Our goal is not to arrest. Our goal is not to file charges, but to confiscate property. “ In view of this statement that has its political weight, primarily because the police minister says something like that, I have to ask, since the goal is not, as you said in that statement, neither the arrest, nor the initiation of proceedings, my question is very specific, and that is how does the minister think that any property has arisen from the crimes, and that, in this case, it does not seem to be a criminal case because the aim is not to file criminal charges, and we all know that a certain criminal case, in this case, is being initiated by criminal charges as a crime? Then, the question arises, given also the same statement, by which law on criminal proceedings is it actually known to us that, in fact, without the application and without the procedure, it determines that someone's property was even obtained by criminal acts? Given that the European Commission's report also expressed concerns about what legal certainty is, my next question is, is legal certainty in our country at all provided by, say, removing some tycoon's detention as a measure of security of presence during the conduct of the criminal procedure, so that detention is replaced by electronic surveillance, what is known to the public as a nap, so when the same tycoon is taken down, and before the time of such a measure, that the criminal proceedings are still ongoing, is it possible and is this affecting legal certainty if one person suspected is actually blamed for the execution of certain criminal acts gives media space on television on a national frequency?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38667	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38668	Thank you, President. I ask my question to the prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and it refers to "Electrovodino" in Novi Sad. I ask how is it possible for the "Electroprivrede Serbia" management to shut down the "Electrovodina" built by citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, which has successfully and profitablely worked for more than half a century and had the best charge in the country, and to announce the opening of the "Electrosever" and EPS trade, two new companies in Kosovo Mitrovica? What are these double arches - "Electrosever" can be formed, and "Electrovodina" must be shut down? What is this rationalization of business, in which five companies in the country are being shut down, starts from Elektrovodina, to Elektroistok, and in Belgrade centralized their money and assets, and then after that a new company is being created, although it has been chosen to transfer the national operational dispatch centre to Novi Sad and to our "Electrovodina", in which half a century has been invested in knowledge, people and equipment, to be the heart of the system for all Serbia, we continue to argue and warn that the entire reorganisation of EPS has been made according to the idea of CEO Aleksandr Obradovic, and in our opinion it is a disastrous idea? The EPS management shuts down the Elektrovodina, which, as I have already said, was built by citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, who worked successfully and I don't think it should have been shut down. She had the best charge, and she announced "Electrosever" and EPS trade, two new companies in Kosovo Mitrovica. I ask Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic when to propose and adopt a new law on the governance of the EPS, in order to avoid the regulation of the electricity distribution system in Serbia being the subject of an arbitrary assessment of one man, one-time regulations or the interest of powerful capital? The second question, I ask the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Minister Zorani Mihajlovic. The issue concerns the Shid-Adaševci railway route, which has been in a very bad state for a long time, so citizens in the meantime, for years already, individually and through inspections and through various decisions by SO Shid, have addressed the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, "The Railways of Serbia", which is also responsible for this railway road, "The Ways of Serbia", which are also in charge, but nothing has been done to this day, nor have some answers arrived. Predrag Bekerek, a committee member in SP Šid, sent a letter to Transport Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and the director of "Zeljnica Serbia" Miroslav Stojcic on September 29th, demanding that this crossing, which is otherwise located on the M18/1 road and intersecting with the Belgrade-Zagreb railway line, be among the 75 railway crossings. The problem of this transition is years old, they spoke to the media and the railways, but they promised it would be resolved. Nothing has been done to this day. On this road there are more and more traffic, many people are passing there because they are going to work in Shid, tractors are passing by, and trucks are passing the most, as there is a border crossing near the Adasjevac, so it goes out on the Belgrade-Zagreb highway. The situation is even worse than when a customs terminal opened up on that side of the line. The municipality of Šid is located on one of the corridors of international freight transport, which is why road infrastructure is badly damaged. This is especially true of travel crossings. One of these crossings to the village of Vajica has been resolved and brought into such a state that traffic through it can be somewhat uninterrupted. However, the transition to the Adasevites is in very poor condition. I ask Minister Zorana Mihajlovic when will he fix the Adaševci-Shid railway crossing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38669	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38670	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to bring up an important topic and on this matter, issues I'm going to refer to the Government. In a report by the expert team hired for the assessment of the number of residents in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, Minister Udovicki, actually Deputy Prime Minister, pointed out that the Republic Statistics Institute has already produced an estimate of the population of three municipalities for 2013, I mean the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, which showed that the number of residents compared to the 2010 estimates has fallen significantly. Minister Udovicki said local leaders from southern Serbia do not accept that data. However, she noted that the work of the Republic Statistics Institute would be very important for the making of an estimate of the number of inhabitants, an estimate with minor differences and an international expert team confirmed the assessment given by the Republic Statistics Institute. At this time in the procedure carried out in assessing the number of inhabitants of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, including the number of Albanians in Serbia, representatives of the Albanian national minority played a marginal role, which was not in the spirit of recommendation number 49 of the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, which provides for a direct dialogue of the authorities with them to determine this assessment. However, it is even more problematic that the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia did not respect the initial part of this recommendation, which calls on the advisory committee to follow a flexible approach from the use of data collected by the census in order to produce a policy affecting the rights of members of national minorities, particularly in terms of Roma and in areas where the boycott significantly affected the results of the census. Unfortunately, since early 2013, Serbia's state authorities have drastically reduced the minority rights of Albanians, precisely due to very problematic use, in my opinion, of falsified data on the number of Albanians listed in the 2011 census. Namely, although Albanians boycotted this census, the Statistics Institute showed that there are only 5,800 Albanians in Serbia, instead of 61,647 in the 2002 census, and only 416 Albanians in Presevo, instead of 31,098 in the previous census, and the Presevo municipality represented only three thousand residents, instead of the previous 35,000, and residents, not counting those staying abroad. Using such falsified statistical data, the municipalities of Presevo lost its judicial unit in 2013 and therefore very smoothly rejected claims for the return of the basic court and the prosecution. Also because of these falsified data, the National Council of the Albanian National Minority in last year's elections was forced to go to elections only with a minimum of 15, and funding was reduced, and now it is also 30%. Regardless of the observed shortcomings in the process applied to the production of population estimates in these municipalities and the number of Albanians in Serbia, they have been confirmed by the International Expert Team and are already official.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38671	Thank you. Your time is up. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38672	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, in Serbia over the last four years, I have been asking the occasional question of the abandoned issue of environmental money flows, so my question today will also concern one of the local self-governments in which environmental money has not been best recognised and there is a difference in interpretation and a difference in opinion between the ministry responsible for environmental and local self-government issues. Before we move on to this particular case, we've had a non-intentional use of environmental resources for four years. The state audit institution has never called on this issue once, although we asked the state auditor several times how to spend environmental money in Serbia. Why has he never called, and why has it allowed for four years to waste non-intentional ecological money collected from pollution charges? We have a regulation and a regulation that determines which activities, as well as basics, as well as obligations and compensation levels, but very often local self-governments cannot recognise this Regulation and do not apply it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, local self-governments who dared to use this Regulation and to use this regulation to bring local taxes, are hampered in their efforts. We here have a specific case of the Zajecar cable factory where, although local self-government in Zajecar has prescribed payment of the environmental tax, the competent ministry for these jobs has annulled that solution. The ministry says in its solution - the regulation does not cover the compensation for the activity carried out by the complainant, nor has any evidence found that the exercise of activity affects the environment for which a unit of local self-government can provide for compensation for the protection and improvement of the environment, as it does not change the conditions and conditions of the environment, as it is also stated in studies whose validity has been confirmed by the competent authority of the city administration. The complainant considers that he is not obliged to pay any compensation on the basis of which it is stated in the appeal solution, etc., etc. How is it possible that the cable factory does not affect environmental protection? What does the Ministry do to determine the basis and what does it consider to be an environmental impact? What tools does the Ministry of Environmental Protection benefit? Has the Ministry of Environmental Protection ever heard of a product life cycle? Does the cable factory pay for the pollution of special waste streams and why the production of electric cables is not found in the regulation establishing this base? On the one hand, it is very clear that the Ministry's intention to protect one of the polluters in Zajecar, thereby reducing the huge flow of money to local self-government in Zajecar, and on the other hand, we understand that there is no administrative capacity in the ministry, that there is no professional capacity and that the Ministry does not know the new economic tools of the environmental impact budget. The impact of isolated activity in a particular case is as if someone told me that coal is not produced by electricity. Of course, the water steam produces electricity, because it drives turbines, but in the whole process you have to take a lifetime of products, and that is why I have a vague explanation that cancels the solution of local self-government in Zajecar and thus reduces and practically exempts from paying in the specific case of the cable factory. Many local self-governments do not use these mechanisms, but it is quite clear here that the competent minister can only resign because nothing has been done in the protection of the environment for these two years, and nothing has been done in total for these four years. The same situation is also in Boro, Obrenovac, Lazarevac, Zrenjanin, Pančevo, Povorevac, Vranja, Šabcu, Užica, Batocina where children drink polluted water, Zajecaru, Loznica, Vrbas and the Great Bac Channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38673	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38674	Thank you, President of the Assembly. What's the question is, it's about yesterday's false salary and pension increase, and that's what insults Serbian citizens. On behalf of Serbian citizens, I ask the question -- why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do so when it takes citizens, and some people in this room don't understand it, when the government of Serbia takes humiliation, and the Serbian Government headed by Alexander Vukic when he gives it again? A false salary and pension increase today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38675	Ambassador, just define to me who to give this exposure to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38676	Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38677	Okay. What are you asking him?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38678	During yesterday's day as prime minister, did he joke when he said that the increase is so much that Serbia is never better off? If they asked Serbian citizens if they lived better today than a year ago, the vast majority would disagree. If someone dared to say that citizens live better today than they did four years ago, I'm pretty sure the vast majority would disagree. Who lives better in Serbia today? Live exclusively by the godmothers, live environment of SNS, Nikola Petrovic, Sinisa Mali, director Dusan Bajatović, director of Aleksandar Obradović, director of Predrag Aleksic, Goran Puzović, Zoran Drobnjak and all those living at the expense of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, educational workers, health workers, police officers, soldiers and eventually pensioners. An increase of 4.2 and 1.25%, relating to educational, healthcare workers and pensioners, is the biggest humiliation the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have experienced in the last four years. When pensioners are gradually reduced pensions, today it increases by 1.25% on average to those who have unconstitutionally reduced pensions, but also to those who have not reduced pensions, and to them it increases by 1.25% linearly. Then I ask the question – how is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is conflicting pensioners based on income and how is it possible to divide pensioners into first and second-row pensioners? It is an average increase of 290 dinars, so it is my question – does the Government of the Republic of Serbia know that 290 dinars are enough to buy bread, milk and sugar, and does this mean that Serbia has never lived better? Even SNS packages in the election campaign were richer than this 1.25% increase. When it comes to "Srbigas", my question to the government of the Republic of Serbia reads -- how is it possible for educators to get a single increase of 55 euros and for "Srbigas" workers to increase 500 euros? Is it possible for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the biggest losers in Serbia worth 45 billion dinars, to stand out 45 times more for "Serbia" than for educational workers? Each employee in "Serbigas" gets 500 euros in one-time assistance, and educational workers 55 euros in one-time assistance. What kind of savings is it today when those on board have a salary of several hundred thousand dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38679	MP, you don't even ask a question in accordance with Article 287, you're discussing the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38680	I asked the tenth question...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38681	I don't have anyone to direct this to, because I don't know how. You know what it means to ask a question and ask for a notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38682	Do you know who the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38683	You're discussing on the subject of the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38684	Serbia and the citizens of Serbia are all clear, Mrs Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38685	Okay, so I don't need to ask anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38686	Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38687	Thank you. Please, questions that do not comply with Article 287 have no one to direct, and I do not expect a reply at all unless a notice or answer to a specific question is asked. You have discussed, I assume you will continue to repeat this to us on the first point, which is your right, but please pay attention to the Rules of Procedure, to facilitate my work, if we can co-operate on this common issue of democracy development through parliamentary life. That's what I ask all MPs, not Balša Bozovica in particular. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38688	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, I was approached by a group of citizens from Novi Sad asking me to ask a parliamentary question to the competent ministry on their behalf. Since they did not state who the responsible ministry is, honestly, from what they sent me in the memo, it is not clear to me what it is to the Ministry of Finance, but I will still refer it to you to the ministries, which is the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. Although, I think honestly, the answer to these allegations will most likely have to be given to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. Here's what interests me as a People's MP, the citizens of Novi Sad, as well as all citizens of the AP Vojvodina. The regional co-financing fund for new technologies in the AP Vojvodina territory distributed 21.9m euros to private businesses of 35m in total to the budget of the said fund without supervision and control. Since corruption is in continuity in the already classical form of which hundreds of millions of euros have already disappeared, and we have to deal seriously with this topic, the pattern is next – the co-financing was not decided in accordance with the law, i.e. they did not decide the Constitution and the law-authorised bodies but the confidential people of the president of the province's government. Since 2008, 21.9m euros have been allocated 91 of the 109 private enterprises that used subsidies. A year before this, the first of 18 out of 109 of these companies received, more precisely, the honor of 13.3m euros, which was done without even otherwise the nakarad criteria and procedures, as at that time no group of officials was formed to carry out the will of the province's powers, or a commission was set up. The executive majority of the AP Vojvodina has only announced all the decisions taken to co-finance although it has never discussed the effects of subsidies in any company, which has also not been done by any other province authority. It is widely known that the Commission for the Drives of New Technologies was appointed by the province's powers, the then two Pajtic and Petrovic, and that the Commission's members were two deputies, adviser and expert associate of Mr Dragoslav Petrovic, while the fifth member was the deputy of the District Secretary for Environmental Protection. There is no independent expert in the Commission for New Technology Drives, and all decisions of the Commission are hidden from the circuit assembly. As evidence of the poor, more accurate, corrupt work of the mentioned fund, as well as of the commission, it also tells the fact that all 35m euros, 108 private enterprises were subsidized, of which at least, please citizens, and your fellow MPs to pay attention to these figures, at least 22 firms in bankruptcy or bankruptcy, while dozens of other these subsidized enterprises are dealing with losses or liquidation. I ask the departments in charge to verify and make the operations of this fund available to the public. Citizens have the right to know from which 108 companies the Fund has concluded a grant and application contract of new technologies on the basis of which the criteria and to which they are to be taken, whether access to this data to any citizen of Vojvodina would have been clear how much the duchy government has made about corruption or would have convinced how well these have improved the economy of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38689	Thank you. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Dragan Sutanovac. Dragan Sutanovac is also registered as a speaker, and here he has been reported to be absent at the session today. Come on, please take a look. This is a new list of DSs this morning, and they've got a new head of Parliament, so we appreciate that. So, to get him off the list, he signed up not to come to the session. Just to make sure it wasn't me doing something of my own free will. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled and uniform search on the proposals of the law, and I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: a draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015; a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to taxes and income on property and the proposal for a law on the validation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes. Whether the proposal's representative wants the word, Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38690	Thank you very much. As you have heard today we have quite a simple agenda, the amendment of the 2015 Budget Act is only in one member. From the moment of submission of this request to this day, some changes have already taken place and, as some people have discussed in the debate, that is, in the parliamentary issues, and as the prime minister has already announced in the media, we will ask the Committee to submit an amendment to extend the work of the first member to all the educational staff. So, not only primary and secondary education, but higher and higher education, and the sum changes from six thousand to seven thousand dinars. It's a one-time help for this year. As you have seen and heard in the results it is seven thousand, the net amount, the gross amount is much higher, as you know because of taxes and contributions and the total amount will be over a billion and a half dinar. That's the amount that will be paid out of the budget for this year. For the following year you heard the announced intention that will be expressed in the 2016 budget, which is that primary and secondary education, that employees in these sectors get an increase of 4%, that health and welfare get an increase of 3%, higher education, internal affairs and the Ministry of Defence 2%, and pensioners all 1.25%. is, first of all, in the context of the IMF programme, i.e. the programme that supports the IMF precedent. It's a front row precedent. It is usually put on freezing wages and pensions during the duration of the programme, everywhere in the world, not only because of the amount it requires but because of not heating up expectations that it is possible to increase wages and pensions before achieving the objectives of the programme. In view of the excess of all the results set, i.e. all the objectives set in this year, we have acquired the "right" for the Board of Directors to step down from that rule and allow selective salary increases and pension increases. This increase in pensions is mostly part an increase in pensions for 1,040,000 people across the levels they've ever had, no matter how little the percentage sounds to you, it's an increase above what's ever been. Secondly, it is an increase that is imposed on the budget by the cost of more than 110,000,000 euros net, and even more grossly, grossly, because it counts when taxes are added and contributions to salaries. We agreed in the programme of space that allows both this break and this performance award, but also staying on the path of cost control in the public sector on salaries and pensions, structural deficit reduction in three years and exiting with success from this programme. The private sector is not in any way limited and as you have seen in this year, the private sector has sufficiently increased either reporting or shown wages, so the effect on the total pay level is almost zero, and the effect on consumption is much less than thought. A broader context – we are going through an extremely difficult adjustment period, remember a year ago, our problem was to stay within the framework of a sustainable fiscal position. We have turned the dynamics of economic growth from minus one to plus 0.75 in the conditions of recession in most countries where we export our goods and services. In most countries, there is no country that has been improved by 1.75%. There are countries that have higher growth rates, but there is no country that has improved the rate of growth by 1.75% from initial projection to realization today, and we expect this to go up to 1% this year, so the overall correction of the situation by 2%. There is no country that has exceeded all fiscal consolidation goals and reversed the growth rate, which at the same time has reduced the fiscal deficit and the other deficit, which is a current payment deficit which is financed mostly by direct investments, therefore not by borrowing. There is no country that has done all this and received the recognition and praise of all people in the professional public in international organisations and from leaders of leading countries in Europe and the world. We don't brag about that. We are glad that we have achieved this and we are glad to be on the path that everyone recognizes, that will be the basis for a turnaround, for investment for future growth and for finally getting out of the multi-annual delay in reforms, for going out on a healthy path for Serbia's growth and development. At first, it is always measured by small rates, small changes in growth rates, but then so on. "Break point", then countries enter the path of sustainable growth over a long period. I was lucky to follow these events in Thailand and South Korea at the early age of my professional career in international organisations. Then we fought for Thailand to develop the production of so-called. “tuk-tuk” cars based on old American engines and everything else worked at home, and Korea was trying to become competitive in umbrella production alongside steel production. Today, Korea is the dominant producer in the most modern electronics, and Thailand is one of the tigers in Asia. They started with little changes, when they turned the trend, then it went much easier, much better, much further. I expect the same thing to happen in Serbia. I expect these changes to create a healthy investment ground that creates a healthy ground for future economic growth. It is very important to me that you understand that small changes today mean major changes in the future. Turning negative trends is the hardest. Keeping them hard again, but not so hard. Already now international organisations recognise an increase in the growth rate in 2016 to 1.75 and possibly 2%, and then in the following year 2017 to 2–2.5%. We aim at achieving the growth rates we need as soon as possible to catch up with the region and Europe and continue the process of integration and a healthier economic future. The best sign of what we're doing is the increased interest of all investors. Things happen in Serbia that are significantly different from what happened in the past. We create a space to clean up all the debts of the past, to clean up all the structural mistakes and failures of the past, to clean up the companies in restructuring and in the Privatisation Agency, to reform public enterprises, to reform the state itself and the public sector as a whole, and thus create a basis for future economic growth and healthy economic growth of this country for a long period of time. Serbia can and must become a regional leader. We can do this by our human capacities, by our intellectual capacities, by everything we do. Today's law rewards, acknowledges the effort of people in education. Education is important because human capital is an engine of development. I expect Serbia's biggest source of war in the coming years to grow productivity, and productivity growth is essentially resting on successful education, not only classical education, general education, but also applied education. We take this step aside from improving education, restoring dignity to education, teachers, teachers, university professors. We're working parallel to a whole series of initiatives to deepen, expand and make effects. I think seven thousand is a fair id of the awards. Remember, that's what the unions were looking for and we were able to secure exactly what they were looking for at the beginning of these negotiations. Now we hear voices that might not be enough. I propose that trade unions of other sectors be consulted which say it is not only enough, but is more than enough to recognise in terms of fiscal consolidation, the result and the success of their work. We share what we have, we don't borrow to share. We're transferring the savings we're making to a debt reduction. We are transferring the savings we are making to closing and completing investment projects that will improve Serbia's capacity to catch up in the region and the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38691	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) The first is Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38692	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the SPO-DHSS parliamentary club will support the proposed amendment of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia in the day to vote. We all know that educators are in a bad material situation, in a bad material situation, and that's not the situation since yesterday. We hope that employees in primary and secondary education institutions and institutions of the student standard, as well as higher education, as the minister noted, along with this one-time assistance and the latest increase in personal incomes, will be given special attention in the coming period because the education system is the most important in order to give birth to the state. Professional personnel who have taken responsibility for the functioning of the most important spheres of economy and society must come from a healthy education. That is why we also support the government's efforts and that it recognises that among the most endangered layers of society are education workers and we hope that in the future it will also find a way to help teachers, teachers, and other professions that need help. I repeat once again that the SPO-DHSS Parliament Club will support the proposed amendments to the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38693	The word is Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38694	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, and the MP club of the NS will support this proposal in the voting day and it is nothing controversial and it is good that we go with a simple, clear attitude and I would like to commend Mr. Minister's opening statement that all those measures we have been taking are starting to deliver results. What I would particularly like to ask the Honorable Minister is a few things about this subject. First of all, we didn't even get in the working material, Mr. Minister, when we had the first version of 6,000 dinars, and for basic and secondary education and student standards, that these people would also be covered, which is the total number of people, and what is the total sum? In the opening statement, we've now heard that high education will be covered and I'd just like to hear from you what the total number of people is? We've received information that it's somewhere over a billion dinars in total. There's one more question I'm interested in. You used the word - one-time help. If it's a one-time help, we in local self-government when we give one-time help, we go with the untaxable work, so I'm interested in why the government took a stand, and she could make a decision to go with the untaxed work? It's simple, I'd like to hear it from you, because you said it yourself – 7,000 net, in gross amounts it's over 10,000 dinars individually. If we'd gone with the untaxable part, could that base be anything wider? The second question, concerning the same subject, Mr. Minister, concerns one, to say, of the good initiative launched by the Prime Minister and which we are going to support, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, which is that next year will be restored, complete, school infrastructure in Serbia, or that all schools that do not have toilets, will already have, to say, Polish, or toilets outside the facilities will be arranged. Now, I'm interested in hearing from you in what way will it be financed, Mr. Minister? Do you already have in next year's budget specific funds that you planned for these purposes, if we know that a few months ago here as the National Assembly have verified one loan from the European Investment Bank worth over tens of millions of euros to rebuild school infrastructure? I have to say that there's already been a tender for the reconstruction of 52 schools in Serbia, but I have to say that it's the Ministry of Education that's so sloppy, that I don't use a harder word, it's implemented, that we have a firm that has a dozen permanent employees, working on the reconstruction of 52 schools. I would ask you to keep this in mind, if the Ministry of Finance were to project the budget for next year, that according to the law for the renewal of schools, primarily for material costs, the competent local self-government, to find a modusa for the Ministry of Finance, if it will, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to completely restore the school infrastructure, to do so in co-operation with local self-government, to set clear criteria for who can work on rebuilding schools and that we do not have any situation in Serbia for the company from Novi Sad to get a job, there are ten employees and then chase subcontractors in the municipality where she got the job and then there are a variety of reasons. For this reason, I have referred a parliamentary question here and you and the Minister of Education – how can this be warned that such good ideas and that the significant funds allocated by the taxpayers are not spent in vain? I ask you, Your Honor, to consider this and to give us clear answers to this. Then, if you're in a position, it's a principle debate, and you've mentioned the figures and the increases for next year, first of all, health workers and workers in the social sector, which will have an increase in the budget, not just educational workers, in the following year, I would ask you just to answer if you can – what will happen, I asked the Minister of Agriculture who sat in that place, with debts that exist for subsidies to agricultural producers? The Minister of Agriculture said, respected finance ministers, that it is not the debt of the Ministry of Agriculture, but that it is the debt of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it simply admits that it is not the right way to project the agrarian budget and that for all those who have applied simply the funds cannot be paid off like this. What's going on? Believe me, every day, especially us who come from the inside, who are also in various functions by local self-government, every day the villagers ask us the same question, which is when will there be subsidies? I most kindly ask you, as well as you as the Minister of Finance, to introduce us to the MPs, and that we can clearly present it, and the citizens are following this transmission, when, in what way and whether the current or permanent budget reserve will be used to the greatest extent possible, and believe me, the huge number of requests, you can talk about the sums, that I don't mention them, when and in what way will it be adequately solved? Because we've made a huge move. This is a good thing, that today’s decision by the Assembly is primarily aided by educators. It's good for the government to think of others, and she made it clear. The steps are small, but they can bring good results, but somehow agricultural producers are always left at the end and nobody mentions them. That's why, Your Honor, I'm asking you to give us an answer to this as well. Once again, the New Serbia parliamentary group will clearly support this bill in the voting day, and we hope for this good news and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38695	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38696	Thank you for this question. I didn't want to mention very detailed figures in the opening statement, but now I'm going to say in response to your question. The word is, according to our records, 135,021 persons meeting the criteria of this amendment. In total, it is 75,361 persons in primary education, 33,608 persons in secondary and 1,392 persons in student standards, 22,392 persons in higher and higher education and 2.268 in student standards, total 135,021. The net amount of 7,000, which corresponds to a gross amount of 11.972 dinars, means, rounded up by 12,000. Why gross? Because it's considered not social aid, but it is a bonus and it is one-time, but it's thought that income, part of profit, and on the advice of the DRI, we went to a gross amount. Knowing that the gross amount, since taxes and contributions are paid back to the state, is actually not burdening the budget at a gross amount, but in a net amount, but we are planning an amendment to the net amount because of it. The gross amount is something we count as the total cost and it is recorded as the total cost. That total cost is with these sums of 1.616,592 thousand dinars, so I'm not going in any further, so that's a billion six hundred and sixteen million. That's the effect it's going to be. I hear the question on the way – where is it financed from? That's what we do in the context of the so-called. balance sheet space over the current budget reserve. That space is very narrow. I will most likely ask as minister to leave us as a Assembly of Greater Space next year, with the Assembly approval of any change, but since our ability to plan precisely is not high enough for this balance sheet space to be defined at a level of 1% of the social product minus the current budget reserve, it would be good to make this space bigger and allow us to transfer expenditures among individual categories, of course, provided that it meets the criteria, the purpose of the budget and obtains parliamentary confirmation. As for your other proposals, another proposal to expand the initiative to raise the quality of sanitary nodes in health care to school, I think it's a good proposal, but so far we haven't checked. We can probably put that into next year's budget. Usually these renovations are done during the holidays. Therefore, in schools, if we include in the 2016 budget, it would be the right time to do so in the June-September period next year. We'll keep that suggestion in mind. As for the debt for farmers, there was something that, you know, turned out to be a big surprise. We last year, when we proposed the budget, went with a proposal to make so-called. subsidies limit to up to 20 hectares, given that they are households that fail to achieve economies of scale and that they are competitive. Yes, roughly speaking, a 100-euro subsidy should have just covered those holdings. We reported 33,000 more households with 20 acres than the previous year. How did that happen? I don't know, but I do know that all of a sudden the households disappeared while it was within 100 acres. There were very many households up to 100 hectares, now suddenly the number of households up to 100 hectares has been reduced, and the number of households that meet the conditions for this subsidy has increased sharply. This year, when defining subsidies, we will have these answers in mind and we will try to define a policy of subsidies that will protect the budget while achieving those objectives in agriculture that we have set for ourselves as structural long-term goals, which is that subsidies are comparable at the level of Europe, so 1% of the social product, and that they are aimed at allowing agriculture to catch up with the world in technology, in the structure of production, in the participation of newly created value in its products. In other words, that agricultural holdings move to higher-grade products of newly created value, such as fruit, such as bone fruit, means nuts, hazelnuts, etc., and not just extensive agricultural production. As you know, these subsidies were inherited from a period of extensive agriculture inherited from socialism, where the aim was to maximise the production of cereals, corn. That doesn't need to be stimulated anymore today. So, within the same total volume of subsidies, we will have to go to the government and you as parliament to move on to a system of subsidies that allows Serbia to catch up with Europe and the place that Serbia, whenever it becomes part of Europe, will be able to successfully use its position and be competitive in agriculture. I think the suggestion is good, but I stress that this is a longer term context. About this year's commitment. So everyone's a little bit right. Yes, the appraisal is at the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is their responsibility and it is also true that it is the government's responsibility for the entire budget, but to put it in a broader context, but it is still the responsibility of the parliament and the people of Serbia. People, citizens pay for all that. Therefore, we will try to reconcile all our obligations within the framework of what we have in the budget, but we do not want to transfer the ball to each other. That's what the Ministry of Agriculture got at the appraisal. It seems that the number of people who meet the criteria is higher than it was before. We will try to fulfill our word, although the law states that our obligation goes to the level of adjunction in the budget. Everyone thought everyone had the right to a subsidy, but the amount of the de facto subsidy is also limited by the budget. We will try to avoid this deviation, but in the coming years we will make sure that the subsidies are realistically defined and consistent with our long-term objectives in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38697	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38698	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this debate is not on the subject today. The largest part of your opening presentation was on the subject of the 2016 budget, which, by law, you had to deliver to the Assembly on 1 November this year. So you've been talking here the whole time, most of the time, about a subject that's not on the agenda. Fortunately, on some of the questions that I had to ask you about this, I agree, a brief law, you gave the answers. So you first named this amount. It was originally the idea of six thousand dinars for some 100,000 people, 110,000 people. We have now learned that, with the amendment of fellow Babic, seven thousand aids, it is helpful. Several times you said help, I wanted to ask you – why doesn't this amount have a name? The member who amends this bill, Article 17, speaks of prizes and bonuses and regulates that awards and bonuses in this year cannot be paid. Then you put this part in without naming what it is and it's good to hear it's help, because I was wondering if it was another prize. You said you were going to reward the citizens with a budget proposal for next year. Great, I believe the citizens will be very pleased with your reward. You also told us the amount of funds that will be spent on this aid, which you had to tell us when you sent the bill. There's one part of the argument in which it's spoken -- an assessment of the financial resources needed to enforce the law. You wrote here – funds have been provided in the Republic of Serbia's 2015 budget for the implementation of this law. What does that mean? No amount, no part of the budget. Now you've told us, we've learned something. Interestingly, it was an explanation of how this happened. You said that's what the enlighteners were looking for when they striked last year. Today, the strikers say they did not ask for this, but asked for one-time assistance in the amount of an average salary in education, which is 40,000. That's six times what you're giving them, you're giving them as help. That's six times less than what they were looking for. It would be interesting to hear the Minister of Education come here and tell them what he offered them when the strike was interrupted, but we'll see it in the coming days. Of course, it was here by the prime minister of incredible statements about it, he says – let whoever has 1,000 dinars, if he thinks it's small. Does the prime minister give this out of his pocket? What is this attitude towards state money that he says – let someone? This money is the money of all Serbian citizens. You've been taking ten percent each month to the educators this year, by applying the Law on Salary Reduction. If the average profit in education is now 40,000, you've taken them four, four, and a half thousand a month and now you're giving them help. How people feel when they get your help, they know best and I won't talk about it here, you have statements and what's going to happen will be very interesting to see in the next period. Since you talked about the 2016 budget most, I want to talk about it, too, because you said some totally amazing things here. You said – recession in the countries in which we export the most. In what countries? Is there a recession in Western Europe? Western Europe, which has an average growth of over 1% of gross national income, seems to me. In the countries most traded for average growth this year, according to the World Bank source, 1.8%. That includes Serbia. Why do I say that? Serbia is the worst in the region. Albania is growing 2.7%. Bosnia and Herzegovina 1.9%. Macedonia 3.2%. Montenegro 3.4%. Croatia 1.8%. So everyone's better than Serbia. Everyone, and the floods had both Bosnia and Croatia. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Why don't you say what you were like? I'll say, since Mr. Babic loves it very much, please don't get in here, talk about what it was like. So this is from the Ministry of Finance's website. I took it off, printed it out, and here's to read... (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: From what year? Mr. Granny, take it easy. Can you do that? You can't. Okay. In 2007, real growth of 5.9%. 2008 5.4%. In 2009, the drop of 3.1%. 2010 growth of 0.6%. Year 2011 growth of 1.4%. These are the data for five years of that government that you keep talking about here and that you're constantly measuring yourself with. That's an average of 3%. What's your average? In 2012, minus 1.1%. In 2013, growth of 2.6% and 2014 fell by 1.8%. With this average of yours in four years, it's going to be 1%, at best, and probably less. So today with this growth, you won't have gross national income per capita as it was in 2011. After four years, Serbian citizens are poorer, poorer. Six hundred and fifty thousand Serbian citizens today are at risk of poverty, 30% of the youth lives in poverty. This government has adopted something that is never, of course, no government, I admit, and God, I don't think I've been able to find such an example in the world. This government has introduced that politics is to make the budget great. We've been listening for a year to see how great the budget is. The budget is in politics, the state's means to implement, to conduct politics. Set a goal, then budget the goal. No government in the world has ever heard that the goal is to make a good budget. What does that mean? What do you do with politics to make the budget sound? What is the goal of this government? Fighting poverty, developing the country, investing in education, investing in some industry, building infrastructure. What is this government policy? The fight against the white plague, what is politics? Is it policy to keep your figures in the budget good? We could've adopted your predecessor's proposal. It would've been even better. He wanted to cut wages and pensions 30%. Well, they'd be great numbers. It wouldn't be a deficit at all, we'd be in a surplus, only the question is who would survive it. The question is, who can survive today? The Prime Minister comes out yesterday and says, "Retirement increase 1.25% and you said it today." They'll have pensioners, you say, a million and I don't know how many thousands you've said, more pensions than ever. A much bigger pension, can you say a more realistic pension, if inflation is 2%, and you're raising your pension by 1.25%? If you hadn't changed the law last year, the pension would have been increased by 1% in October 2014, 0.5% this April and 0.5% this year on October 1st of this year. So two percent would be increased by more than two, but at least two percent. So less than what would be normal to increase because the price increase in Serbia is 2.1%. So no one's going to have a bigger pension, but everyone's going to have less, realistically smaller and real profits in Serbia have fallen, according to statistics that you keep on the Ministry's website. Now you said it wasn't exactly that, because they grew in the real sector, in the public sector they fell 7.7%, what a reduction, when you calculated the reduction in wages you adopted a year ago. How did you get those amazing budget savings? The biggest savings are on salary cuts and pensions. Tax revenues are only really higher by 0.6%. This is a result of government work, an increase in income, a real 0.6%. When we discussed the law here last year, about reducing pensions, you said among other things – pensioners have little, spend mostly on domestic goods and we won't feel the negative consequences of pension cuts. I looked here, again at the Ministry's site, the country's VAT for the first nine months is when it indexes 83.5%, compared to the plan. So the VAT in the country is smaller than planned, the one in the export. So the poorest felt the pension cut. You've been talking, it won't. It will. You can see yourself here in this statistic, and I'd like you to deny me. The only revenue that has significantly increased this year is non-tax revenue. You can read this, there is a good analysis in the Fiscal Council reports, which says – over 20 billion dinars this year have been charged through the alleged profit of the energy and telecommunications sector. The Fiscal Council warns you that if the trend continues to damage both the weak energy and telecommunications sectors in Serbia in the long and long term. The EPS cannot develop without investment. It cannot "Telecom Serbia" develop without investment. You're all the profit you could get, and even you did something that wasn't recorded, you charged EMS the profits from the previous years, which is inconclusive. The bookkeeping profit when it is determined once it is deployed. You can't count back five years as much as you can, but it's a dry drain drain and you can do it once. You did it this year, I'm waiting to see that budget, to see how you plan it next year, to maintain that level of non-tax income at the level that was this year. Every month of three, four, five billion dinars planned for investment are spent less each month. You can see that money, you can see that our gross national income is the lowest, I repeat, in the region. I was looking at some world list, putting us in 160 places in the world with this growth. I've seen the growth of countries that have 1% growth, about what place it is, 160 in the world. Where are the investments? Are investments this year less than they were last year? Will it be three times smaller than it was in 2011, 2010? What I want to ask you, since here when you come you have to speak precisely, you said - increase for the Ministry of Defense 2%, say for next year. Is that the Department of Defense or is it the Army? Who does a 2% increase go to? You of these increases as far as I was able to send out statements, you didn't predict employees at the state administration. An employee at the Department of Defense has a member of the Army, but there are people who are on the state's budget. Does this 2% refer to them or not? Same case at the Ministry of the Interior, is that this 2% for the police, or is that for the employees of the Ministry of the Interior? We feel that this proposal and I'm going back to the law that's on the agenda, that it's not enough. We've made amendments that, since we didn't know when we got this proposal how much money that the state has to spend, to this help as you called it, we've amendedly asked that all the employees and all the pensioners who've cut their salaries, or pensions pay off that difference. Since we're so good and great and great, I invite you to accept our amendment. Since you did something that didn't happen in practice to accept the amendment of the majority MPs before the debate started here in principle. So, we got the amendment on Tuesday, the government has already accepted the amendment. You're only here today to explain the law to us. It doesn't happen here in parliament, that's not how we do it. This is all one farce, one dance and a whole government economy to win support in the election. These measures you proposed with the budget for next year should be approved by the electoral body who votes for the parties in the government and we understand that. We'll be against it, of course, because we think it's deeply unfair, to hit all those people who work hard today, and every day insults them by the Prime Minister saying they don't work enough and that they should do more work if they want to pay. He insults all those people who worked 35, 40, 45 years, earned their pensions fairly, and then someone decided to take 10, 20, 25% and then mock them and he said, now we're going to increase 1.25% to you and it's going to be more than ever. I'd just like to see how you, Mr. Minister, would react that your pension, which I believe, has been fairly well earned all these years, working in Serbia and the world, if someone told you right now, is going to cut you 25%, because there isn't, and then there is, but for someone else. How would you react? What would you have done? What would you say? I believe I know your answer and I believe the citizens of Serbia know it, but it would be nice to hear it from you today. We find this law unacceptable, that the government has to give back to its citizens what it has taken over the last year, that it has to access the austerity and rationalization measures that you haven't done this year. One of the budget savings is that the funds allocated to the social programme are in the midst of a reduction in the number of employees, and the money has not been spent. Six billion dinars were not spent away from fuel to create strategic reserves. Six billion hasn't been spent, not a penny. The energy ministry has made a phantom public procurement procedure for an emergency company, which I was talking about here, I never got an answer from the minister, that the job of five million euros to buy options, options for the purchase of fuel, and when the end of this year we paid five million euros, and the fuels nowhere, or warehouses anywhere. We have an obligation on this European path to make strategic reserves, you know, until, I think, in 2023, there's exactly how much each country must have secured. We didn't do anything this year, and the citizens were charged through the price of six billion dinars just for it. Where's the money? Spend them like this six, seven thousand. Maybe we'll increase that number here by the end of the day. Maybe we'll expand. Why don't we have employees in preschool education? Those women aren't worth it. They don't do their job...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38699	Time, Giurishi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38700	... From morning till night, they don't deserve it. Is that a message from this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38701	According to Businessman Arsic. I'm gonna have to delete the list, I guess I remembered who it was. Sign up. Arsic by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38702	Mr. Chairman, I believe that article 107 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of Law 1 injured the dignity of the National Assembly, because fellow MPs know very well some things that are regulated by law and some rules that always exist in the RS and those stories that someone has been kidnapped by someone and that they blame the Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, instead of saying nice things that are true, which is that pensions are financed from pension funds, i.e. from the salary of employees, but because employees no longer have enough, they are funded from the RS budget, and the money in the fund and employees is not enough because Alexander Vukic is guilty, but it is the government of the DS who has also ruined the funds and left a large number of people without work and are now claiming that we are kidnapping someone. We're returning something to someone, and they were kidnapping them while they were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38703	Mr. Arsic, it is my belief that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, as well as your right to plead? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38704	Dear Chairman, I believe that you have injured a member of 103 who speaks of how an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly is indicated if an MP considers that something has been done outside of this Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Arsic, answered by misusing this Rules of Procedure to replicate my presentation. He could have reported for the replica, could have been within the time of his MP group, which is about 15 times the time my MP group has had, to use and to respond to everything I've said. You were obliged to interrupt him, to realize that he had abused the Rules of Procedure and to punish him in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you took those two minutes. His MP group won't feel it because he's got a lot of time at his disposal. I have very little time. I've used everything. I don't think I've abused the Rules of Procedure. I was talking about the politics of the harmful government of RS, harmful because citizens live worse every day and because what this government is doing and intends to do through next year's budget will not lead to a better life for citizens. It may provide them with another mandate in this Assembly and you, since you are part of that majority, but not Serbian citizens, will not lead them to a better life, and that is my right as an MP, because one part of Serbian citizens who do not think that this government is doing well here has sent me to their votes. They ask me to say what I was talking about today and there can be no violation of the Rules of Procedure and a violation of dignity because I have not offended anyone's dignity in any single word, nor the dignity of this Parliament, and I ask you to act in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38705	Thank you, Djurishich. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Since you resented Mr. Arsic and you, too, went and gave a practical replica in the part of your presentation. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and you can plead. We're gonna vote in voting day? (Yes) Good. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38706	Thank you very much. Please pay attention for a few minutes, you've spoken for 20 minutes and listed a lot of things that are right at first sight and want to show that the government is leading a harmful policy. I'll show you that you fully interpret it out of context, out of elemental economic ties and out of interpretation of the starting position. Here's why. I became Minister of Finance. You named me here on August 4th last year. In that quarter, the social product fell 3.7%. In the third quarter last year, 3.7%. It's true that we ended up a year with a minus 0.8%. It is true that we had a negative projection, but it is true that the floods reduced the production of coal, electricity and other 18 to 28% last year, that we had a terrible impact on the entire economy and a complete disturbance of all economic flows. So that place I took over the finance minister in a situation where it threatened to evaluate these same people that you are now citing here 8.8% of the general government deficit minus 3.7% of the social product drop, the drop in industrial production, the reduction in the minimum fiscal liquidity. What happened then? We've been measuring what's happened over the past 15 months. We turned around, I was talking, I wasn't talking about the level, I was talking about changing the rate of growth. Find me a country in Europe that is relative to the projections that all institutions have given and that differs 0.2 or 0.3% there. Find me a country where the growth rate is revised by almost 2% higher, from minus one to 0.75, or it'll probably be one by the end of the year. Find it for me. I'm ready to talk about what the factors are. Secondly, all the countries we trade with regardless of the rate of growth of the social product were hit by sanctions of exports to Russia and thus by narrowing the market for our exports. So, on the one hand, we had an internal shock. On the other hand, we had a narrowing of demand for our exports. So we've been working under unfavourable external conditions. Third, apart from the floods and droughts this year we had read a series of other negative effects, not to mention the migration crisis, the Greek crisis and everything else. We've been working on a lot of unfavourable conditions. In such conditions we've brought a budget, you can't out of that context interpret neither the budget nor what we've done. In such conditions, we ended a year with a minus 6.6% of GDP deficit. We are currently at 40 billion deficits. When we approved the central government budget here, 191 billion were planned for the deficit in December last year. We revised that 191 billion to 120 billion after the second audit. Right now we're at 40 billion, that's one third of that 120 billion. How? Yes, one part is over the dividends of public enterprises, it is true that Europe recognises the old dividends for 50 years, except that it does not recognise them above the line, but below the line. Look at the precise statistics of Eurostat, no one slows it down. We are, to tell you why, that our citizens know, because public enterprises have tried to make a profit, but to hide it in long-term placements, that they can't pay it to anyone. It has been a game for years, pressure on public enterprises under the restructuring programme, to pay what they need to pay the state, resulting in the increase. Is that sustainable? No, it's not sustainable because it's a one-time improvement. Is that useful? Yes, we have reduced the deficit by 600m euros, thus reducing the need for gross borrowing, thus reducing the need for interest to 600m. Let me remind you, it's at those credit rates that were agreed before 2012, about 7%. So we saved 3.5% to 600 million, calculate. Every year with the loans we got in dollars, last year a billion, I expect a billion and in next year, we will improve the dollar liquidity and provide a natural hedge for the growth rate of dollars. Why do I tell you this? We're looking at what we've changed, GDP has fallen like this, so it's turned up and it's permanently increasing. It's not high enough yet, our desired rate to catch up with Europe is 4%, we're far from there. I have to tell you a joke that illustrates the matter well. Two men climb the mountain, one falls down one, we call it, a fiscal cliff and flies, a friend asks him, is everything okay, does something hurt? He says everything's fine, nothing hurts. Did you break something? I didn't. So everything's okay? He says, "No, I'm still falling." You're talking about 2% increase in the fall situation. If they'd admitted it last year, they might admit it, they wouldn't have been able to pay by those tendencies. That was the crash data. So we can argue at someone's expert meeting, I can show you that it was borrowing-based growth, donor-based growth, grants that were unsustainable. We proved it professionally, so don't let me repeat it here. I'm ready to enter any debate, 90% of the growth was based on unsustainable foundations. That was so-called. supporting aggregate demand, that's when you try to lift yourself up by your hair. In Serbia's economy, it produced deficits, it produced imports and borrowing. That's why we're in a situation. Don't make that logical mistake, we're trying to reverse the situation, and you keep telling us that we made it so that we would fall would be wonderful to everyone. It would be, but we'd be in bankruptcy right now. That's the difference. We now have the pain and cost of turning the situation around and going out on the sustainable basis of future growth and development. I mentioned the budget next year only in the context of salary increases, i.e. these one-time aids. In law we do not name it, it is called – to pay the net amount of 6,000 dinars. In the meantime, we ended negotiations with the Fund and agreed that we could include 7,000 and that we could expand that to the entire sector. Yeah, we admit it, that's what we wanted and that's what we did, there's nothing wrong with it. It's not even a mistake, it's just a review, because we wanted to leave in time. Remember, on Tuesday, we had a final meeting and until the last minute we were struggling to ensure the best conditions in both this year and next year, and we're going to fight to take advantage of what we saved in the best possible way, as we did last year, to pay back the debts from the past, the debts that have been incurred over the past 10 years, and to create a place for future healthy growth. As for VAT, you quote the net domestic VAT. The number is true, but the number outside the context does not reflect the true state. We have a huge increase in VAT vomiting. Part of it is good, it refers to increased exports, so exporters are asking for VAT returns, and part of it is bad, behavior appears that is not legal. People report artificial companies that get back VAT and then disappear. We'll try to stop it. That part of VAT return related to exports is fine, but it's not the part where the truck crosses the border, gets a VAT refund and returns to Serbia illegally for 20 km with products where neither excise duty nor VAT is paid more. It's not right, and it'll have to be sanctioned by the IRS. But that's where we all agree, the goal is to increase the tax base without changing tax rates. Third, thank you for your notice. I didn't stress that, I think it was a clear exposure of the prime minister, this increase, the entire central administration of 33,000 people nominally by systematization of 28,000 realistically, plus these temporary ones, has no right to increase. According to what they say -- without repeating it, in any case, the Ministry of Education has no increase, the Ministry of Defence has no increase, no ministry has an increase. This applies, when we say the ministries, it's the administrations, the authorities, the people who work under that ministry, but not just the ministry. So no one in the administration has an increase, I say it once and for all, we don't have to repeat it in every situation. So there's one clause here, which we said at the beginning, no one from the public so-called. The states, in the narrow sense of these thirty-and-a-half thousand people, will not get a penny increase. You asked me if I would accept a pension reduction for what I've accomplished? The part that I have achieved in Serbia, which I do not receive, so our laws have abolished my past work, I am the youngest here in the government, I have zero past work, I accept that part, of course. It's an integral part, it's a small victim. In the part where I worked abroad and made a fair profit, that's where it behaves the way the funds that provided it behave. Therefore, they invest that money in the market, I hope that we will also have such a source soon, meaning a funding source for pensions, where it will be able to invest, that it will also develop funds and markets. We're not here yet, but we'll be here soon. Let me tell you an important thing, and that's who these pensions apply to. You said it well, one part never had a cut, one part of the salary was never reduced, one pension. Remember that we've passed laws here, we've excluded people somewhere around minimum income and minimum pensions, we've spared you reductions, that's 1,040,000 people. Another 500,000 pensioners had a reduction of less than 5%, and those with the highest pensions had bigger cuts, but believe me, these people are in a good economic situation and some were a greater reduction, a moral right to take away something from them that we reduced. We have a so-called. The current pension system, which people have worked before, but there are two deviations from classical rules. One is – many have received the benefits, received more than what they were doing and did not contribute to this fund. Secondly, this fund has a systematic deficit of 6.5 to 7% of GDP, which we replace from the budget each year. Therefore, all Serbian citizens replace about half of their pensions through fiscal instruments. Therefore, only if we cut to 50% of our pensions would the constitutional question be asked whether we are touching someone's rights. I hope that part shrinks, not because we're going to cut transfers, but because people are going to pay more and better. This year we have better performances of these transfers and I hope it will improve. How? By registering real wages, by reporting what they earn and having a relationship between it and what they get through retirement. So, I agree with you, but in another way, we have to arrange this system, that everyone has the motive to invest in a pension fund, and we have to make sure that these money is available to them in the future. It's not this system, it's going to be some other system, much better. Today we're just trying to fix what we inherited. The last thing I want to say is this. I have to stand up to your judgment that it's a harmful policy. I can't guarantee that we will succeed in everything, but I'm telling you, I have to repeat the basic contours, we've inherited a situation where GDP falls, where the deficit goes beyond control, in which the external trade position cannot be maintained, in which our rating falls, in which we grow in debt premiums, all trends were negative. The key trends we've turned, that turnaround, I repeat, it's not big, but it's positive and it's crucial. And for the longer term, if we keep going like this, we have a real chance of going out once and for all from the transition crisis, from the double recession that we have here, and structural and nominal, we've already raised that. Going from minus one to plus 0.75 is, believe me, a much greater success than raising the growth rate from two to 2.5%, which I expect between 2016 and 2017. It's not a harmful policy. The intention was, to say the least, brave. That's why we're here, and that's why I accepted that instead of enjoying my retirement and doing nothing, I come here to help with eight hundred dollars a month. It was my World Bank daily, my diary. So 22 times less. I don't brag about it, but I think my work here is more useful than sitting around doing small consulting projects for international organisations. Harmful policy, for one thing, is not harmful to outcomes, and more importantly, it is not harmful in purpose. This is the intention that we're trying to catch up with the real problem that he is, not sleeping on laurels and not transferring things to carpets and debts, that is. to future generations. It's hard to bear the cost of adjustment, I agree with you here. Maybe the result will be less good than we expect, but I don't think it will, that it's already good and it'll be even better. But if politics were harmful, it imputed the intention it didn't have, believe me. You can politically disagree with someone, but the intention is to get this country back on track and make this country a healthy economy where people will want to come back, not run away from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38707	Thank you, Minister. The replica of Babić at the previous exhibition. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38708	I would remind you, Mr. Chairman, if Mr. Djurisic had said it in 16 minutes, and I listened very carefully if he had just said it then – well, now let's talk a little bit about the law. Since we're not here to talk about anything and anything that comes to mind, but about the proposed topics and the laws that are on the agenda, I'd like you to take care of it in the future. Today's law is a fruit, on the one hand, of talks and agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia with relevant and representative trade unions of educational workers, and on the other hand, is the fruit of the state in our public finances and all of those things that we have done in the past year, all of those savings we have achieved, all of those reform things we have done and done. All this is not possible for dialogue and agreement to be presented as a disgrace. In my opinion, and I believe in the majority of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, it is a shame when you promise for political benefit, so that you have promised for the sake of political benefit don't even try to live up to it. It is a shame when Mladjan Dinkic says: "The reason I entered that political promise of a thousand euros of free action is fear that Boris Tadic could lose the presidential election, issued for January 2008. I did not do it for my party, which did not participate in the election at all, but supported Tadic. Later analyses showed that literally those 100,000 votes, which he won in the second round, well stemmed from a joint promise of free action. “ Now that is an insult. It is an insult, when for the sake of the political benefit and victory of a single candidate in the election, you promise people in Serbia unreal, impossible 1000 euros of free action, so don't make them. It is a shame when you promise people in Serbia because of the political one-time help of 200,000 jobs, and of all that you get in Serbia twice as much, from 13% to 26% unemployed at the time of the government of Boris Tadic. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38709	Thank you. The word comes from MP Marko Djurisic, a replica likely to be presented by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38710	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, to the Minister's presentation, because I don't want to talk about this nonsense for a hundred times. So, Mr. Minister, you were here talking about the policy you've been conducting for 15 months and saying you inherited the fall, that you inherited the threat of bankruptcy. I ask you, who was 15 months ago and was in charge of this land? Three times every 15 months, the ruling majority rules Serbia. When they came there was no fall, there was no bankruptcy. It wasn't there, Minister. That's what I'm talking about. The fact that we came to the brink of bankruptcy, that's what we hear all the time. As the new minister arrives, and you are fourth in almost four years, he talks – there's bankruptcy. That's what you said. I don't know, maybe we were. Thank God we didn't come and have it. But I believe this policy will not lead to that goal you're talking about. And since you were talking about the joke, here, I'm going to use one of those forms myself. He says -- we had donkeys, we just taught him not to eat, and it died. Now, I'm afraid that doesn't happen to us, that we learn to save, that we don't have, and that, unfortunately, people here in this Serbia don't survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38711	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38712	Article 107, Mr. Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly. If we are MPs here, and if one MP compared that people to the donkey, then I don't know any more where the level of our parliamentaryism came from. How long has all this been going on? If it is nonsense to call Boris Tadic's political promise with the camera at the time wherever he was, and that's those 1,000 euros of free shares to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it's nonsense, okay, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the one that Mr. Djurisic called, not to say what he called you, you haven't even heard about 1,000 euros of free action. No, someone else did it. No, it should be erased from our memory, because it's nonsense and anyone who mentions the promised 200,000 jobs. I would remind one who insults the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that in these tables, which he said he saw manually and had written them, let him look at the rate of unemployment in Serbia in 2008. It was 13%, and during the government of Boris Tadic, in four years, the unemployment rate was 25.8% in 2012, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38713	I beg you, however, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38714	Well, he called it nonsense, and those people who lost their jobs because of such a devastating policy compared it to the donkeys, and all that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and all that without any reaction. Now he calls this government a pest. This government, which the European Commission also said in the latest report, is still high, but below 20%, which means more than 6% of the unemployment rate compared to the one we found in 2012. I would remind you, Mr. Chairman, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whom Mr. Djurisic called donkeys, unfortunately, that in 2012, the state of the budget was also the liquidity of the budget for half the pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38715	Thank you. I must admit that I did not experience such a connotation of Mr. Djurisic's statement, regardless, he used a folk proverb in another context and I didn't realize... (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: It is not a proverb, Mr. Chairman. Yes, the saying is popular, famous. So, I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and it's your right to ask us to plead. Do you want to? No, I don't. Mr. Djurishic, on what basis are you answering? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. No, he had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you go, but don't use the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38716	You know how, to tell you the truth, I have to because I don't see any other way. Article 103 has been injured by your actions again, for more than two minutes you have allowed my predecessor to use the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and replicates me. So, once again, the predecessor was saying something about my exposure, he relocated with my views, and referring to a 107 member talking about a violation of dignity. So, I didn't mean to offend anyone, and I don't think I offended anyone. I said I wouldn't answer Mr. Babic's nonsense, because what else is nonsense but the fact that 753,000 unemployed in 2011. is 23% unemployment, and 753,000 unemployed are 18% unemployment. That's nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38717	Please, Đurić, I understand why you have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you often use, is a common practice for all almost the Members of Parliament, to use rights and replicas through the violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's what you tried in the last one, I told you, and now. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why are you stopping me and not him? Why me? I did, I interrupted you, because I just want to end this behavior and go in the agenda, and that's why I'm giving my word to the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga. Here you go, Olena.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38718	Thank you, Vice President. Minister Vujovicu, right now, I thought today's debate except for Minister Vujovic's to accompany the minister of education, Minister Verbic, but apparently it does not follow either. It would be logical if today's debate except for Minister Vujovic, who discusses finance, was also followed by Minister Verbic, as one-time assistance relates to educational workers. The reason for amending this law states that it is only adopted because it is necessary to improve the quality of the process of secondary and primary schools and institutions of the student standard. So nowhere does it say that this one - time help will be given to the educators because they are in a difficult situation. About whether all the employees in the education will receive seven thousand dinars is not known, because the government's decision states that most likely not even all employees will receive that compensation, i.e. One-time help, but the Ministry of Education will decide who gets it. Therefore, I see that, according to the minister of enlightenment, Mr Verbic was scheduled to attend today's session. Otherwise, the bill complements the 17th plan. The 2015 Budget Law, so that it would now read: "According to a member of the Law on the financial year 2015, there will be no account of the payment of Christmas, annual and other types of rewards and bonuses provided for in specific and individual collective agreements for direct and indirect beneficiaries of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, from the budget of local self-government and users of compulsory social security organisations, except jubilee awards for employees who acquired this right in 2015. In 2015, according to this, employees of beneficiaries of budget funds and bonuses to which they represent, according to some international criteria, are unstandard. If the units, again, talk about the law, if the local self-government units do not secure from the budget and pay the jubilee rewards to primary and secondary school employees who are entitled to it in 2015, the minister in charge of financial affairs, who is not in the O.R. on a proposal from the Ministry of Education's Office, will suspend the process of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. a corresponding part of the income tax in the amount of outstanding jubilee awards paid to employees in primary and secondary schools from the budget of local self-government units. I ask Minister Vujovic, who is not back in the O.R., what will happen if educational workers in local self-government, where are there workers who are supposed to receive bonuses for prizes, lose their wages if local self-government just doesn't get it? Union representatives are not satisfied and point out that inadequate aid is obviously an illogical attitude of the state towards education. Enlighteners are asking for an average salary, which would mean for professors 40,000 dinars, and for all those employed by 20,000 dinars, not one-time help that will pay off who knows when. In particular, he should worry about the statement by the Minister of Education Verbic, who has been saying these days that all those who don't need those seven thousand dinars should return the one-time help. It's really irresponsible and kind of humiliating for, not just for our education, but for the educators. Educational workers have long been in pain of injustice, and because of another law, which today is not a topic, which is a bill on salaries, in which there are no public enterprises, government agencies, officials, in which not all the activities are covered. Representatives of the Union of Educational Workers' Union have analysed the position of educational staff based on statistics and the average net earnings of 40,000 dinars, but net earnings from educators, and less than the republican average, for example, 44,000 dinars, had employees in operations such as water supply, health management, processing industry, construction. At the bottom of this list are those who deal with accommodation services, eat from an average of 28,000 dinars, while the top belongs to financial activities and insurance, those who deal with electricity and gas supplies, and the biggest earnings are recorded by employees in information and communication activities whose average net wage is 81,000 dinars. The bill says that education from the republican average lags by 11.46% and from the best paid even 102.66%. In addition, the number of graduate graduates is 2.64 times higher than the Serbian average. According to the education unions, employees have the lowest earnings among all high-level educational employees in Serbia who are up to twice as low as salaries in some areas. Today’s debate was that it was not only about this one - time assistance to educators but also about why others at risk in this country did not receive one - time assistance. There's been a lot of talk about the fact that the subsidies were not paid to the paors. I also asked that question at the sessions when parliamentary issues were held, and now I heard from the minister that these subsidies will not ultimately be paid because everything that has been planned for subsidies has already been paid off. I ask, Minister Vujovic, who is not in the O.R. again, how he will pay off subsidies. So, does it take a couple of couples that first day to sign up, so while they're going to be the first ones to apply for subsidies, they're going to get subsidies, and everyone else who's going to apply on the second day is not going to get subsidies? In his words, it is so that only those who applied on the first day and for the rest of the subsidies were not given subsidies. I don't know what it is, the minister's at the door, he's not in the O.R., and I'd like him to confirm that he's not getting any subsidies for agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38719	Do you continue, Mrs. Papuga? The minister is here, and there are associates who will tell the Minister your question, so I'd like to ask you to proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38720	Still, I think MPs should ask the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38721	If you want us to interrupt the session and that's not your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38722	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38723	Some other time. Thank you. Go ahead if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38724	No, I don't want to go on, I want to talk to the minister, not my associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38725	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38726	Please, MPs demand that he be present as minister. I can talk if the minister is present here, if they allow me to keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38727	Why are you making a problem right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38728	I'm not making any trouble, they're looking for a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38729	The minister is in the O.R. and making a statement. Please, Mr. Miatovic, if you'd like to speak, speak, if you don't, we'll move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38730	I'll speak, because I think the minister will hear, but you interrupted the lady, and I respect the ladies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38731	Are you saying I don't respect you, Mr. Miatovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38732	That's not what I said, that's what you do, but I'll continue, so you give the lady your word after the minister arrives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38733	Do you want to continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38734	Yeah, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38736	Dear Vice-President, respected co-workers of the ministers, and I expect the minister, I will talk about amending the Budget Law. What I'm trying to say is that these are minor changes in budgets, but they are very significant changes in budgets. Why? For the first time, we've made it clear that we're giving a certain amount to people from real resources, from the funds we've saved from fiscal consolidation. It's always being challenged here. I would like to stress that last year we had a lower budget of 6.7%, that this year the fiscal deficit is 3.2%. That's a big score. That's a huge result, and I want to point that out. The result also accepts the Fiscal Council, whose report is here and which I have studied very well. Of course, there are some other things, something that is inherited, which comes, these are questions about the payment of military pensions and in certain debts of NIS. It's all going to be paid out of real funds, it's very important and very important to know that this is being paid out of what's been saved. A few dozen billion were saved. That's a big score. Why am I stressing that? Serbian citizens must know that only on interest is the country's loan-extracted loan-to-earth loan-to-billion and 300m euros. It's a sum that's five times bigger than all these increases we're going to give in 2016. I would like to stress the problems we face, which difficulties we face, but we are also courageously going into fiscal consolidation, into economic reform, precisely because of the fact that we are finally bringing this country to the path that means – stable finance, a stable economy, a stable life in the state of Serbia. I stress this for the simple reason that the Fiscal Council itself says that very good results have been achieved. That's what the IMF says, that's what the World Bank says. Remember that fiscal consolidation only lasts one year and that we have drawn ourselves three years, that means 2016 and 2017. We expect years, too, and great problems, but also the desire to move on and be consistent with what's done. What's very important to say right now, I don't want to hide it, the price of these reforms is high, but the government was socially sensitive and that's why the SDPS supported reforms and supporting reforms. Why? Well, the least of the consequences are the ones that have the least. That's what we insisted when we passed all the laws, and that's what we're going to insist on, and that's why we're going to support all of the government's intentions that mean that those who are the most damaged, and that's what I mean by education, that's what I mean by healthcare that even this scale that was given yesterday gets the most. That's good. I'm not saying it's huge and big, but the summation of small improvements in the end will give one big improvement then if we trust ourselves we are able to do what we're expected to do. The Social Democratic Party will always support the increase in wages and pensions, but from real sources, not out of debt, not for populist reasons to be in debt to give, but only what is earned can be shared from real sources. That's what we're going to insist on and keep insisting on. But the Social Democratic Party of Serbia insists further. She insists on the fact that we must go further into reforms. We're just getting started. We don't need to be fooled, we have to move on, we have to move forward. There are deep reforms in many areas, in education, in health care. We also have extra employees in the state administration. So, that's all we haven't done yet, and that's what's waiting for us. These deep reforms will mean that we have sustainable growth for the future, which is what the SDPS insists on for a simple reason, because that is what every responsible government, every socially responsible government must do and work. And one more thing to say, somehow our country is always expected to get something. I must stress that the state must be given. Taxes have to be given, everything that contributes, and not always damage the state without asking us, but always asking for the state to solve it all on its own. This means that we must do what is required ourselves, and I think that we are able to do it and that this and the next two years, 2016 and 2017, we must be patient, persistent and that we are expected to have more deep cuts, only then in 2018 can we freely say that we are going forward, yes, we have stabilised our finances, our economy and the state of Serbia will be in prosperity. One more thing, no, I don't think it's going to be big things, but we know what was waiting for us if we continued, if we were still in debt, then we wouldn't be interesting a billion 300, we'd be a billion 600, 700, and in the end it would be bankruptcy. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote to amend this law and will support all those reform laws, all of which means living on real resources, on what is earned and only spending what is earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38737	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38738	Dear Ministers, Associates, Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, therefore, certainly this issue of the material position of education, and thus also educational workers is a great deal of attention and it is a very important issue and I believe that every discussion we hear here is useful, regardless of what the problem looks at from different angles, perhaps with an exclusive political intention in terms of policyising the problem, but in any case, I believe that the greatest number of us MPs intend to contribute to solving this problem that cannot be solved overnight. I would point out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that it is good that the amendment will extend this assistance in terms of rights and obtaining and higher education institutions, that it will include primary education, secondary education, student standard, or people working on these jobs, in the homes of students and students, etc. I didn't realize it or didn't I hear if preschool education was covered by this? I don't think so. Of course, I know that preschool benefits go from the budget of local self-government, but it is a real problem that needs to be discussed and should be seen if it is possible to find some way. If it can't be otherwise, then the local self-government budget replaces it. However, there are major problems because even in some or some local self-governments, these incomes are not at an appropriate level, which are provided for certain coefficients for pre-school education due to their material position, due to budget levels. We also have a problem with certain restrictions, we cannot exceed the mass of funds for such purposes, so the problem is certainly very complex, but I think they are also a very important link in our country's education and education system and that we should see if we can do something about it. The education and education system is the largest system that is the beneficiary of budgets, budgets and, in the broadest sense, according to statistics from the Statistics Institute two years ago, it included over a million users, namely one million and 285,000 users. These include not only pre-school staff, primary education, secondary education, higher education, but also pre-school students, primary school students, students, their scholarships, student and student standards, institutions and institutions in the field of education, education of adults, textbooks, investments, material costs, etc. So it is certainly a large system that requires many, many resources and therefore, in these conditions in which Serbia is present, it is difficult to meet all appetites, not appetites, but real needs, so to speak. Of course, we should strive to increase the percentage of GDP that will be allocated to education and that it should be over 5%, although it is difficult to establish that we also have a part of that private sector in the area of education, and that is where certain funds and certain investments are obtained. In any case, that percentage has been falling and falling in previous years, and today it is not satisfactory because of the economic crisis that has hit one wider space, it is a global character, etc. But, of course, these reforms that we have undertaken here, headed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, promise to work hard, consistently, which is constantly propagating and moving our government, that we will be able to stand in line with European countries that will have a stable economy, thus ensuring a stable flow of funds into the budget, which will enable us to resolve the situation of education in our society. We know that in the present time, but also for a long period of time, from the total budget allocated to education, 96% goes to salaries, and only 4% goes to everything else, which is clearly absolutely small. However, this is our reality and I say, reforms and recovery of the Republic of Serbia, which our government is committed to, these parameters must and I believe will change for the better. I would also say that for a long time the poor material position of education has generated a negative selection of personnel in education itself, and certainly there are certain consequences that are very significant. Here we have heard that it is very important that the quality of education that we need is to enable better productivity in the ultimate result, which is very significant, of course, not only better productivity, but education should provide us with a different value system in observing reality in what is a life full of consciousness, full of knowledge, full of value, honesty, etc. In conditions where we had depraved value systems, we had one chaos, one inappropriate and inappropriate relationship with what education is, according to what we need to be educated, and there we really have to do a lot and change these things. The education development strategy until 2020 has developed long-term objectives. These objectives are to improve the conditions of work in education, improve the material position of educational workers, the conditions of our children's education, greater investment, which are necessary for education and how. I would say that to praise, for every commendation of the efforts and efforts of the government, and also to follow such a policy, it is to create better conditions in our educational institutions through renovations, through adaptations and what is last said, for every praise and renovation of sanitary conditions in schools and where luck is that it is not at all on the agenda. In a normal society, it should have been resolved long ago. Unfortunately, we are really very low in what our reality really is, and we really need to work for a long time, hard to surface into one surface that represents a completely different reality, a normal reality in which we can objectively and in one valid way take care of the needs of various spheres in our society. Our education certainly should finally be treated as an investment in the future, not as a cost. So what education creates today, as a finished product, is obtained in 15-20 years. So we must think ahead, because this product, figuratively speaking, will be the bearer of this country, this society and the prosperity of our society, our country, etc. That's why education has this very, very important role that we need to be very aware of and that we should treat differently. I would say on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that this issue is being addressed by our current government and this parliamentary group and how it stands in that direction. But things can't change overnight, and we can create everything in a very short time. Of course, our parliamentary group does not consider this aid to be a final solution to the material position of educators. It is indeed something that is small and insufficient, but a basic thought that must be made public in our existing conditions of living, invulnering and doing things is simply impossible for this assistance to be greater and should be accepted. We would all like not only to have education, but other spheres and other areas have much higher incomes, much higher wages, but at this point it's really impossible. Also, it deserves support and a 4% raise in education. At this point, this is the highest percentage that will be allocated for education from January 1st, and this is quite justified, given that in the education system, the highest number of highly educated personnel is working and that their income is below the level of highly educated personnel in other areas. So it is certainly one of the moves, one of the steps towards equating positions with staff in other areas, and this will again allow when the adoption of the payment law comes on the agenda to be people from education in the same position with the appropriate degree of education in other areas. Certainly, the adoption of the law on salaries and paying classes is a system solution that should solve it in a just way, because it will certainly make it impossible to look into someone else's yard, and then compare it, and then never end those discussions who earned it, who didn't, etc. Of course, the law on salaries and paying classes I believe that, according to what I know and our parliamentary group, it has not come to that full formation and some final version. Looks like there's still a lot of work to do on that. It's not, I mean, simple things, but I believe we're going to get one quality law of a certain moment, and it's going to help solve all these issues, too. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr. Ministers and Associates, the SPS parliamentary group is in any case supporting the addition of the budget through the allocation of these funds to 7,000 dinars for all employees of educational institutions. Of course, we would appeal that we should all realize that it's a difficult time, that we can't create anything new, something more, etc., and that we all need to be patient and work hard on our tasks. Of course, it is expected from educators who are very important to Serbia's future, to raise and educate our children. And I'm an educator myself, and I come from that area, and that's why I'm saying, for all of this in this way and in words like this, and I've always said that working in education with young people, with children, is a privilege, on the one hand. I don't think there's any better job than working with young people, with children, molding them as human beings and creating new quality in human terms through knowledge, through value systems, etc., but on the other hand it's also a great responsibility, and this country, society, must appreciate and therefore educational workers and all the employees in education deserve great attention. So the SPS parliamentary group will vote for this law anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38739	Mr. Alexander Jerkov, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, before we begin seriously with Mr. Minister to discuss this bill, I ask him to pass on to his colleague, Minister Srdjan Verbić, that the DS expects him to apologize to the educators and all the employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38741	Please, Mrs. Jerkov, it's not a subject, nor can you ask for such services.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38742	Do you know what the subject is? Do you know what I mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38743	Please, don't talk about the agenda like that, about the subject, not that the minister is passing some messages to the other minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38744	Okay, this way I'm asking Mr. Verbic to apologize... Can anyone say anything? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38745	Mrs. Jerkov, this is not a topic. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Do you know what the topic is? ) You had at the beginning of the session time and opportunity to ask a question. (National MP Balsa Bozovic throws out of town. Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away, please. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, can I speak? Just to talk about the agenda. You have the right to speak of the agenda in today's session. (National MP Jovan Markovic throws out of place. Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away. Here you go, Miss Jerkov, you have time to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38746	Mr Verbic said that educational workers who are not satisfied with these 7,000 dinars... I can't talk about 7,000 dinars? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38747	This is not the topic of the agenda, nor is it that you speak from the assembly pay phone to Minister Verbić. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: To determine whether the chairman is sober. ) I ask you, you can look back as part of your address, but you can't look back like this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38748	I will do my best to make sure you're satisfied with the way I speak, and if at any point you judge that what I'm saying is not in line, please take away my word because you do it regularly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38749	Miss Jerkov, before you started the exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38750	Please stop arguing with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38751	Just listen to me for a sentence that's why I'm interrupting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38752	I don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38753	You said yourself, Miss Jerkov, that before you start talking about the agenda, you're going to direct...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38754	You're interrupting me because I'm criticizing the SNS government for nothing else. It is clear to all of us in this congregation, and it becomes clearer from day to day, and as we do more and more, it becomes clearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38755	Will you talk about the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38756	Thank you. The question raised on the Committee on Education by the Assistant Ministers of Finance and Assistant Minister of Education – which is why Article 1 and one of the two members of the Proposals of this Law is formulated to talk about a decision by the Government to pay some educational workers the help or reward or profit, which is why we need to clarify this during this debate, of 6,000 dinars, of both assistants, therefore, and assistant at the Ministry of Finance and Assistant to the Ministry of Education, has been answered that this is because not all the educators will receive this assistance, which at that time amounted to 6,000 dinars, and now Mr Vukic has addressed us through Mr Babic and announced that he... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38757	You don't have a microphone. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: For what? I don't know what reason, but time will count. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38758	Since I'm applying for the fifth time, what time will it be?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38759	We'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38760	Something I don't believe you'll charge fair, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38761	Okay. It's from your personal experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38762	So we have been told by two ministerial assistants from two competent ministries that this assistance will not even apply to all educational workers. Mr Vujović has read about how many educators will be concerned here, and my question to Mr Vujović is – who are these people, are these the only educational workers who have a full fund of lessons, are those educational workers who have a incomplete fund, are they only those who have been admitted indefinitely, are they educational workers who are on replacement, what about teachers or teachers who are on maternity leave, what about educational workers who have been admitted for a certain time? If it applies to all the educators, I don't know why, Mr. Minister, that's not what it's written about? The second question that the representatives of all four representative trade unions, who were present at the Education Committee's meeting, asked the representatives of the ministry was – where the work of the promise to receive a reward or a bonus or help at the level of one average profit, which we are responsible for that aid of six, and now seven thousand dinars, is summed up in accordance with the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia's budget and there is no more money than that. The question is raised -- how is it possible, if we're doing so well that the prime minister is uncomfortable, we don't have more than 7,000 dinars for educators, but we'll talk about it later? The third question that was asked them then, and I think it's time to ask you now, don't pass on if it offends you, but I think there's a possibility that other ministers in the government might hear what I'm going to ask – is it a shame for you, Mr Vujovic, to sit here today and to convince us...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38763	Miss Jerkov, I ask you not to address the members of the government in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38764	I'm asking, I'm not talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38765	Your home education should not allow you to address the minister in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38766	Please don't comment on my home education. Thank you, Mr. Becic. Is it uncomfortable for some here to convince us that the aid of 7,000 dinars is generous and rescue aid to educators who, during the past year, have been taken on average by 60,000 dinars through a reduction in wages and pensions? So, to the people who were taken away from 60,000 dinars, now 10% of what was taken from them, convincing them that they should be grateful, that today the Minister of Education would later insult them by saying that to whom this assistance is not enough can freely return it. Is there any end to the humiliation of educators by the SNS-led government? Is there any end to this humiliation of people who need to teach our children, who have the most serious jobs in this country and whether there is an end to the truths that are being brought here, because what this agreement is said to be the fruit of some agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the representative unions is not true. All four representative unions were invited to the meeting of the Education Committee and representatives of all four unions said there was no agreement on this sum. The sum was announced to them at a meeting with Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, with no opportunity to make a statement. So that a deal can't be said, it can actually be said as there are words about all your other lies, but, simply, citizens need to know that it's not a deal, but it's offered in principle to take or leave, and many, you will see, intend and leave it, to pay for charity and to send this payment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is uncomfortable with how well we are doing and how much money we have in the budget. As the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has told us in time here, and you have declared that it is quite in line with the Rules of Procedure -- political cowards from the Government of Serbia did not have the courage to touch public enterprises, political cowards from the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not have the courage to touch government agencies and did not have the courage to solve the public sector's problem where the problem of public sector earnings arises, but is taken from teachers, taken from doctors, and then further Minister Udovicki announced without any shame that more than 80% of those who will be fired in the coming period will come from the education and health sector. Are the public sector problems, Mr Vujovicu, employees of education and health workers? Or the problem in the public sector is employed by public companies, employed by government agencies, which are not even covered by the Public Sector Max Number Act, which is not covered by the Payments Act, and we see from your official data that God did not apply to them, nor does the public sector employment ban, because you have found a way to employ another 9,000 party personnel. Why do these enlighteners get hurt all the time? Why are they the only public sector employees in the Republic of Serbia working on the norm? Why are they just talking about the trust fund, about how many hours they've been working? Could you, Mr. Vujovic, tell me, how many hours does an employee in a public company work actively? No, it's enough for him to have a chair he'll sit on in the morning when he gets to work and he'll be counting on him to work full-time. Only teachers, only teachers, only teachers count their hours, only they have a norm, and no one can talk about how many hours people who are employed in public enterprises work, and all the laws your government makes absolutely do not treat that problem, nor do they deal with it. How many hours does a courier who is employed in the Directorate, excuse me, just a second to find these wonderful data, at the Civil Aviation Directorate, who receives as many as 60,000 dinars a month? How many hours of work do they work a day at the Anti-Corruption Agency, where public officials receive a salary of 179.000 dinars and they are not executives? State officials have a salary of 179.000 dinars. How many working hours do employees work at the National Bank of Serbia, which in its informant officially informs that the average earnings for September 2015 amounted to 84 thousand 301 dinar and 14 dinar? The average profit, not for the governor of the National Bank, but for the average salary in the NBS is 84,301 dinar. How much work is done in these companies a day? How much work do maids work in agencies with higher salaries than educators who are 20% to 30% lower than the republican average after a reduction in wages? So until you talk about it, any savings on educational workers, any savings on doctors will be just your demagogue and their humiliation. At that meeting, I'm sorry there weren't many colleagues, we barely had a quorum to start that meeting and make some decisions, the educators were talking about how they were particularly humiliated by the fact that the announced Platin Class Act doesn't treat any public enterprises or government officials or government agencies. So again it will be those who will be in line with their salaries and again the bus driver will have a higher salary than a specialist doctor who works in a health care facility. They talked about how they were humiliated by the fact that the release lists that were published on the Ministry of Education site were said about how they were affected by the fact that the ban on employment obviously did not apply to everything and how they say it in Orvell's "Life Farm" – all animals are equal and pigs are a little more equal than other animals, so again, some public sector employees are slightly more equal than other public sector employees. When you explained this bill we couldn't do a few things without noticing, first of all, we didn't really have a name for those 6,000 dinars. You said here several times that it was about the reward, about the help, then you said it was about the profit, that it would be taxed as income, and when you made that bill that you did, it turned out that about 600 million dinars, out of that billion and 600 million actually would return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, this time as taxes on profits. This is Mr. Vujovicu, if Mr. Arsic can stop representing you, so you can pay attention to what I'm saying, it seems important to me. You actually take it from the budget, you go back to the budget, and you pour it from the hollow into the empty, seemingly for no big reason. But when you think about it a little bit, it's very quick to realize that the reason you're going to have 600 million dinars, god's increased income based on employee earnings, is that you're going to be telling us falsely again that the number of employees has increased, because my God, they've increased income based on earnings and that's what your government is doing. This is just a small illustration of it, but you're working like that, you're making us really beautiful, you've been personal for a year and a half, and your colleagues are almost four years old. When it is said that there is no money in the budget for more aid and that the aid of 6,000 later is 7,000 dinars in line with budget options, the question is simply imposed – how is it possible for the "Srbigas" to whom we are at the same session, where we cut the salaries of public sector employees, there are 300 million euros, there is money, and there are only 7,000 dinars for educational workers? How is it possible that Dusan Bajatovic, who is the head of one of the biggest losers in this country, can pay his employees a 500-euro reward, and the Republic of Serbia can pay 55 euros in compensation for the employees in education? Will Dusan Bajatovic return himself from his salary? Great, I think any principal of primary or secondary school would be too happy to have so much pay that he can pay the employees back, at least pay off his salary, and that he can pay them 500 euros each. It's not that there's no money, it's that there's a problem for some, and there's no problem for some. How is it possible for us to pass a law here that, because of the tycoon from dubious privatisations, disown 600 million euros through the Law of Conversion, and that there are no more than 7,000 dinars for educators? How is it possible that Vukic is talking about the construction of a national stadium and that we have 7,000 dinars for educators? How can we join the "Belgrade on Water" project that will cost us 3.5 billion euros and have 7,000 dinars for educators? Mr. Vujovic can't have it for the stadium, and he can't have it for the educators, he can't have it for the stadium, and people continue to treat children via SMS and beg citizens who have been paid to pay them 100 dinars because they can't collect for the treatment of children. It's your policy, and that's your shame. When speaking again to representatives of the representative unions at this meeting, they, apart from feeling very humiliated, felt very, very, very embarrassed and angry. They told us about teachers who cared about other people's children, and for their children, they didn't have the money to buy lunch. They told us that for a family with two children, only lunch in a week costs 6,000 dinars. They told us about how much it hurt that no one had contacted them since they broke off the strike until they strike again, that no one had mentioned that help. They talked about how it pains them that the IMF, we've already talked about it, didn't ask for 10% to be enlightened, but to reduce the total mass of profits by 10%. In your incompetence and in your cowardice, you decided to cut everyone's wages 10%...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38767	You continue to insult, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38768	Mr. Vukic here told us that we were political cowards and you said that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38769	You didn't just say "political cowards," you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38770	I'm sorry, in your political cowardice, you shouldn't touch the public sector, but you're cutting salaries to teachers, educators and nurses.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38771	It's your home education.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38772	They talked about how there was no deal and how it hurt them and how it showed that some deal had been reached. They talked about how they were thinking about inviting their membership not to accept that charity from six, at that moment until Mr. Vukic, through Mr. Babic, addressed and increased it to 7,000, but that they realized that these people needed it. Not that they were thinking about not accepting that money not because they didn't need it, but because they wanted to defend the dignity of the profession and then agreed that whoever was able, they probably won't be able to make a lot of money, that help to pay for humanitarian purposes and Mr. Vukic on the payment card to inform them about it. What may have surprised them even more is yesterday's congratulations from Mr. Vukic who had enough cheeks to give them a congratulatory increase of 1,400 dinars to their salaries next year, that congratulations to the pensioners would increase their pensions by 290 dinars on average, which, I think, is not enough for these people to buy their grandchildren chocolate once a month, because he, earlier, did not allow them to increase pensions, and now, in his size and goodness, he allows pensions to increase by 290 dinars, and the salaries of educators by 1,400 dinars... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38773	Miss Jerkov's time is up. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I have more time. Not at 17 and 26. Before that, you've wasted your time... One second... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: You have spent it on me. You, Miss Jerkov. You think you're very important if you mention the Prime Minister more than once? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Thank you, Mr. Becic. ) You can check with the service that you've even spoken for a second. And it included the time I interrupted you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Thank you, Mr. Becic. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38774	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Article 106 and Article 107. I resent you here because you may have reacted to the previous speaker when you shouldn't, and when you shouldn't have reacted and I now strongly resented you for insulting the dignity of the entire parliament, insulting the dignity of this people and this country by inventing and falsely caring for the educational workers of those who saw the "Vojvodine Development Bank" in such a way as to fail, those who have ruined the economy of this country, who have had enterprises in restructuring and only held them to buy voters' votes, those who have ruined us, they today have the courage to talk about educational workers. This is their education. This is the school of their time. These are the schools they left for us. You were supposed to react because this is how someone insults the dignity of the entire state and it really doesn't make any sense for all of us here, and I'm asking you to do it in the future because it really doesn't make any sense that those who volunteered to rob this country today are taking such false care of the educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38775	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Unfortunately, you're right, when they talk about honesty it's very... But, okay. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38777	Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Arsic has received his word. You'll get by the Rules of Procedure later. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38778	I am in many ways as surprised as my colleague Djukanovic is about the care of educational workers and employees in Serbia. You know, someone gets up and says about this pay phone – what is 7,000 dinars for those people who need to receive that cash compensation. Somebody figure out how much that's in the total amount of money. Take the paper and the pen, if you can't count, take the digitron and you'll get the amount that's about two billion dinars if we consider the amendment of fellow Babic. If you know it's at 7,000 dinars of two billion dinars, you'll come up with the amount that the Ministry of Education's salary fund is full of eight billion dinars, roughly speaking. The opposition, of course, especially the former regime, is trying to convince us all here that this government doesn't care about its citizens. I would suggest to the former regime that led the DS how to provide funding for the department of the Ministry of Education for a future period, and here we are prepared, if they provide these sources of funding, to return the level of earnings to the Ministry of Education that was prior to the entry into force of the austerity measure. As a result, we all agree that Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank have deprived the RS budget somewhere for about a billion euros. With a rough bill it's 120 billion dinars or to translate again into pay, full salary at the Ministry of Education, 15 full salaries of all educators and all employees of the Ministry of Education. So ask your comrades who robbed the state through Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobank to return the money and when they return it, you will prove to all of us that you really care about citizens and educational workers. Is that a fair offer? Why won't you say the money didn't go away? Well, they did. Shall we talk about Galenika? So 24 billion dinars... (Alexandra Jerkov throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38779	Please don't throw Miss Jerkov away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38780	Shall we talk... (Jovan Markovic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38781	Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away. Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away, I'll have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38782	... about the interest we have to pay annually on the loans you've owed to the citizens of RS, and we're paying them back now. We're back at about 130 billion dinars. It's 16 full salaries of the Ministry of Education and Educational Workers only on interest or, since some talk a lot about... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: What is this? Replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38783	Please, Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: that I may follow.) ) Miss Jerkov, I apologize to Mr Arsic, Arsic is an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. He's been talking for 20 minutes, like you said, and no one... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: Story of the bill? ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: What is he talking about? He's talking about the subject? Mr. Djurishich, don't throw it away. I broke up as chairman because Miss Jerkov didn't talk about the subject. She asked questions to various ministers, and Mr. Arsic is talking about the subject. Well, you're in pain, Development Bank. I can't change anything there. Go ahead, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38784	I don't understand why you're so nervous. Is it because I'm saying something that might be incorrect? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. I'm speaking incorrectly. All right. Here, like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38785	Please, Miss Jerkov, Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away, I will be forced to give a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38786	Let's keep working on this topic with this country as we found it. There were stories here about an increase in pensions. Someone said this government took something from the pensioners, something they earned for their 35, 40-year working century. I thank the pensioners for doing so much today in this country, but this government did not take anything from them, this government did not spend and empty pension funds, this government did not restructure the economy, this government did not privatise, this government did not leave 400,000 people out of work, this government did not bring Serbia to the beggar stick. Now someone asks a question and says, "Let's give it to the educators." I'll ask another question - tell us where, from which section? How do you plan on doing that? Our pay funds are limited, they're tied to the growth of gross products, you know that very well, you're just not going to tell the citizens, you're not going to be honest with the citizens. So you lose the election, you're not honest, and when you're in power, you're not honest, and when you're an opposition, you're not honest, but it's your political program. The results I have with your government were catastrophic. You may like it or not, but that's how it is. Let's ask a question. Someone increased salaries and pensions in the public sector 2% or 3% over one year with 12% inflation. Did he give these workers anything? It's nothing. He took everything from them. He took more than he gave them. Did someone take care of the rate of the euro then and how they repay the loans, and it changes by 10%, you gave them an increase of 2%, 3%. What? So financial speculators can make money? To get that money out of the country, to destroy the economy and lead to a new number of unemployed? Come on, privatization, then speculation. The result – disaster in the country. We're not going to talk about the debts we found, which were not shown in any document anywhere that existed. The only way to get out of this crisis is to start a business. You know very well that you can't do it overnight and you can't privatise "Maxia", by showing it as a foreign investment, because "Maxie" is a service, not a production, "Maxie" is not a new job, "Maxie" is not a new product, "Maxie" is not a new value, and you show it as your biggest investment. Sold the trade chain, nothing more. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Whose? ) Miskovicev, of course. You are the foreign investor Miskovic and the company. You know well that starting a business takes time, and that time with these austerity measures we have to buy and that we need to create preconditions, first of all inflation that is predictable and in those frames that the NBS draws. Has that goal been achieved? Yes, it is. Whether the objective of a stable dinar course has been achieved, even if the NBS is applying so-called. A sliding course? Yes, it is. Is Serbia becoming a legal state? He's getting up. Is everyone guaranteed for their assets and their capital invested? It's guaranteed. This is seen in Serbia's progress in positions, how attractive it is for investment. These austerity measures were carried out also yielded some results that we did not expect. Why should we not return this part of the money that we can and which, most importantly, we do not have the most vulnerable part of the profession in the Republic of Serbia? None of you have said at any time that in the plan of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in agreement with the IMF, the very Ministry of Education will have the highest salary increase. (Alexandra Jerkov, from town: Of 1,400 dinars. Like I said, 4% on inflation of 2% is more, 5% on inflation than 12% is less. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Increase 10%. That's nonsense. That's not nonsense. It's facts, and the nonsense is some other things that some of them have said here, but still no one in the former regime, who's responsible for this situation in the state, who emptied our funds, emptied the factory halls, emptied the budget, left me with debts, told me where else, where else to secure another six billion dinars for a full fund of education salaries. It's not because he's gone, and you know it well, and he didn't say it because he doesn't have where. We've lost part of economic sovereignty, but it's still not the merit of this government, it's some of the previous ones. We believe that this solution is what the Republic of Serbia can offer the educators at this time. Maybe it's a little something, maybe it's a lot, maybe it's enough for some people, but that's what we have today. I wish we could do more, not just to them, but to everyone, but we've found such a state that now this is something that's maximum. That is why in the voting day we will also support the bill in principle, and it seems to me in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38787	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mrs. Comic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38788	Thank you. Before you gave your word to the MP empowered to the representative of the parliamentary group, you violated Rule 108 of Rule 1 of Article 27(2) by giving yourself the right to express your position and comment on who has and who does not have the right of MPs to speak, in this case, about honesty. This cannot be done by the chairman, and by doing so you have caused the reaction of all the MPs, who would also react that you have as your own personal remark as to who can and who cannot speak of honesty, have directed it to anyone. This sincere misunderstanding of what can and cannot be chaired in the application of the Rules of Procedure is unfortunately seen and now and I ask you that if we can in any way, we are all taking this session together in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What the MPs will say to each other, it is the work of the chairman, of course, to measure that they do not exceed the provisions which oblige us all to act with insight, but the chairman cannot express valuable views on any MP. This is inadmissible and it is a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, except that it is inadmissible and completely unnecessary, because MPs all have both the knowledge and the skills to cross arguments with each other, and the job of the chairman is that none of them violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It is not the President's job to determine whether any MP can or cannot talk about honesty, so I ask you to regard it as a joint effort by the end of this session as a joint effort for the session to run without incidents unnecessarily challenged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38789	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I wish you'd said that right after you presented your authorised representative. Also, you'll be able to see in the steno notes that something like that was sent by your authorised representative to me, and I just answered that. In fact, it was just my repetition of a sentence spoken by an MP who pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, without any comment. If anyone's identified, there's nothing I can do about it. Thank you. Miss Jerkov, do you want something? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: Replica. You have no right to a replica. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Sorry, you're late to report, it's my fault, we still have an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Mira Petrovic Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why can't a replica?]] Mrs. Petrovic got the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38790	I would like to say, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, that we will support the draft law supplementing the Budget Law, but I would like first to refer to yesterday's statement by the prime minister on increasing pensions for all pensioners and to refer to the payment of debt to military pensioners. The statements we have now heard and the hint of the increase and the payment of the debt are in fact a confirmation of the correctness of our decision to support Prime Minister Vukic's concept of fiscal consolidation of our country. Of course, we need this economic justification and, of course, it is necessary for this country to become both organised and efficient. No one thinks of us as an increase of 1.25% for pensioners as some large amount, but they're just indications that we're finally moving forward. The pensioners waited very patiently, rationally, without some adventurous spirit, simply had patience and, behold, waited for this consolidation to be financially established and finally moved forward. As much, as much as possible at this point. We hope that simply these fragile bases we have laid will strengthen and that in the coming years there will be increasing increases, both for pensioners and employees. Of course none of us think that's enough from the PUPS parliamentary group. Of course, we are also pleased that injustice was corrected against military pensioners, which was created at the end of 2007, deliberately-unintentionally. But we also talked about this problem in the pre-election campaign, as our President Milan Krkobibic said, and my fellow MPs, particularly Mr Arsenovic, kept pointing to the problem. Here, we've come to the conclusion that this government can finally correct and pay off all pensioners and we're really happy about it. We're happy because it's finally this and a sign that this fear that existed, whether pensions are ever going to stay in this financial situation that we were in, whether or not the pension is going to be, that this fear has been chosen and that simple pensions are regular and secure. Of course the percentage doesn't matter at this point. Of course it's just important that we move forward. I think we all have to accept it together. And that's a little 4% education, or 3% health care, or the police 2%, so of course it's not some amount, but it's just a shift and it is a sign that we can. Definitely the government has shown that the biggest problem in education and health care is to help them, but as much as our budget really allows. So we think that we should simply continue to support this financial consolidation, move forward, do our best to fix it, so as much as we can. Is that now 1.25, and next year, God of health, 5%, we'll all be looking forward together. So, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law, i.e. the proposal to supplement the Budget Law, and we hope that this kind of good news will grow more and more in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38791	I thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. He's not in the O.R. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38792	Another unusual bill, so unusual that it becomes common that we get strange bill proposals. This is budget rebalance. Any changes to the Budget Law are rebalances, so some ignorant people who say there will be no rebalancing themselves this year by sending this to parliament. What is the purpose of this proposal? It shows – reasons for the adoption of the law, i.e. This law is passed to improve the quality of the process of work of secondary and primary schools and institutions of student standards. How can the poor, miserable, so-called mercy of the rulers of six or seven thousand dinars improve the quality of the work process? What is this, a reward or help? If it's a reward, why does everyone get it? The reward is given to those who have done more, who differ in quality than those around them. So it's not a reward. Is this help? Of course it's not help, because not all educators are in the same status. Some have a spouse who is benevolent or rich in inheritance or by some other basis from some normal times. This can't be social aid, because not everyone deserves it again. And some in this line of education workers, not that they need social assistance, but a few dozen times larger than those six or seven thousand dinars. So, what's the basis of this? People work for wages and wages based on what they give in that job. Awards are a special story, and social aid is a special story. I'm asking the Minister to come forward at last, what is this? The total amount of net, of course, since the spins contribute through the budget, that's irrelevant to the entire calculation, is somewhere around a billion dinars. That seems like a lot. One billion dinars is 8.3m euros, as far as I understand myself in today's course, and the stamps are because ten million marks at some rebel morning session yesterday, the Serbian government gave Srebrenica the intention of washing the dirty cheek of some of its members from the 1990s. So that's the measure of value. That's about 50% more than trying to wash your dirty cheek. That's terrible. There are, of course, union organisations of educators and some say – thank you, we don't need charity, we need a system solution, we're not beggars, we're educational workers who need to educate future generations in this country. They said they'd give up these miserable benefits, rewards, or help. I recommend that they set up a fund, if they don't already exist, to help the most vulnerable colleagues, and that those who justifiably understand them, I don't want them to accept it, no matter what they need for a small amount of money, because there's nothing important you can do with that money, to raise enough money in that fund to help those educators who wouldn't even be helped to get their pay back, let alone give them such a miserable help. Improving the process of work in secondary and primary schools, so now we hear both higher and higher, it is difficult to do with five-six euros per year to help educational workers. It's hard to fix and move forward and promise to paint schools. It is a new reform move the Serbian government is offering for next year, that all schools will be painted. Of course, they should be painted, of course, that it is an obligation, as far as I remember it is the obligation of local self-government, but of course it is good to help the state too if it can, unless this painting is entrusted to an art workshop that recently painted "Luthium Serbia", because it would then be hard corruption and once again difficult to insult the intelligence of the Serbian people and other Serbian citizens. Minister, this law is bad, and I'm asking you to say what you're planning for next year, what will be the next year?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38793	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Marijan Rističević, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Blagoja Bradić. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my former colleague farmer and economist, at least that's what he claims, although his schoolware is more like the higher around the economics rather than the higher economics. It seems to me a little bit more in vain when in the way he interpreted the increase, it seems to me that we've reduced by 50%, by the way he interpreted this bill. He was talking about dirty cheeks, Mr. Chairman, and when dirty cheeks are talking about penetrating cheeks, whose cheeks can make soldier's chills, then it's a little touching to me. Perhaps this increase would have been more significant if it hadn't disappeared in 2000, 700,000 jobs and we have 700,000 contributions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38795	Please, Mr. Ristichevic on the subject. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38796	Please, he can't distract me, this doctor over there throwing, the man who doctored, who jumps on tables in class doesn't surprise me when he throws one farmer. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38797	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, don't throw it away, then allow Mr. Risticevic to comment on your throw. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38798	Mr. Chairman, don't interrupt the session for dropping one doctor and doctor of science to one farmer because he's trying to challenge my right, democratic right to be equal with all other MPs. And as I'm on the subject and I'm saying that this increase of 7,000 dinars that are very significant, I'm going to say even spectacularly for the simple reason that the state we found didn't look like the state, it looked like a ruins from the state. The economy was completely devastated, and the economy did not make surpluses but deficits. So, when one government, one government saves in one year of funds that I think very significantly can increase the revenues of 145,000 educational workers for them, but it's a little bit of a success for themselves and us. So, if they hadn't saved as taxpayers, if they hadn't saved together with everyone else, there wouldn't have been an increase. If they hadn't knocked down the former regime's power now there would be no increase, there would have been a decrease. If this government was theirs, they'd let go of 10% inflation and increase their salary 7%, so they'd actually have 3%. That's why this is important to me, because it shows that compared to the increase in savings, it's worth saving, because saving is good money, that all of the united should contribute to the recovery of our economy. When we recover it and put it on its feet, then those who have divided us will also take advantage of us against each other. It's not nice, it's not right. It's not someone's success as small as it is, and I say it's important, because all the great important things start with one step, no matter how small, and that's why I say this is a success, and that's why I recommend that all the educators accept this, that they spend it with their families, that they don't give any funds like my fellow farmer suggested. He would most likely want to set up a vineyard fund where he would lead and use the funds. I suggest that they spend it with their families, to believe in the government, to believe in the state, to believe in saving, to believe that when the state deprives itself, when we don't have to pay 130 billion interest rates for the insanely raised loans at high interest rates in the period when it was lived from the person in charge, and not from the person in charge, when the main product in the state was a public debt, I therefore recommend that they accept this as a great thing because the state broke up with that kind of policy that various cheaters have served to the people in the last 12 years until 2012, where they, by God, shared good and evil with the people by taking good and leaving the people evil. The people were told by fairy tales, and they built their own castles, where the people now live like a bass, and they live like a fairy tale. So, to know that this change and the addition of the budget is a big deal, means breaking up with that kind of policy that the party of the former regime has implemented. This is a good sign that a state appears in this country, that its economy appears, that this state returns sovereignty compared to these things. I ask myself and them and you, and you, Mr. Chairman, how much we could raise wages and pensions today if not in a wild, predatory privatisation established wild, insane capitalism that cleaned up 700,000 jobs. I'm asking you, if we had 700,000 contributions to salaries, if we had the VAT, we could proudly say today that we're going to raise their salaries by 10, 15, 20, 30%. What we can't do anymore is the product of having to pay back debts from a period when it was irresponsiblely ruled by the state, when he took as many as he wanted, when they made all kinds of combinations, and from that I'm asking them to accept this as a significant work, a joint act of all of us, and not to believe those who robbed them, and now they're calling them to go out to the streets, to re-possess them, I guess they want to get them back together again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38799	Thank you. Mr. Bradic isn't in the O.R. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Neither is Mr. Milicevic. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38800	People's MPs, Mr. Minister, were we surprised to hear a glorious announcement a few days ago of almost merciful nature and that the educators would receive 6,000 dinars of one-time compensation. We are not, because we are already used to both the budgets and the resources of citizens being made available beyond the plan, past the law and today we are talking about this law. Right away, the DS will not vote against this bill because we know what a difficult position educational workers and all those working in primary and secondary education are in. Let me remind you of something else, the DS when we talked about reducing wages and pensions was against reducing salaries to educators and other professions that have key importance in our society, which are highly underrated, and without this work and contribution there is no development of this society. This one - time aid of 6,000, or 7,000 as we are told today, is another of the humiliations that we have had to see in our conduct toward educational workers. Let's say, first of all, that the educators lost their pay cuts somewhere between 30,000 and 60,000 dinars per year. Now some one-time compensation will somehow make up for it. What is becoming a big problem here, and where there are some questions that this law does not give any answers to, some of them have mentioned my colleague in charge of discussing this matter in front of the DS, is who will receive one-time assistance from all the staff teachers and teachers in primary and secondary education, whether only those who have a full fund of lessons. Whether those who are indefinitely employed and for what reason are ultimately left out of preschool education when we know that education reform provides that preschool education is also part of the education system. When will this fee be paid? That's not what law says at all. There were words somewhere by the end of November. Will everyone be paid by the end of November, we also don't know that at the moment, but if not everyone's main question is what criteria will be applied to the cost of this aid? We don't have the answers right now, and the educators who are most concerned, even less. We've seen the reaction of almost every union in this matter. We saw the reaction of the Belgrade High School Professor's Forum when they said this was another one of the humiliations they were exposed to. We're not talking about any profession here, we're talking about teachers, teachers, those who educate our children, and who should represent for them the main models of behavior, role models, that they be, therefore, the stars of leadership in their lives. If we have this kind of continuous humiliation of teachers and teachers, if we don't see that their basic dignity is questionable, can we be surprised when it's everyday practice, and there's a lot of newspapers, and we all know from stories and children and parents how increasingly students treat them, and God, we, and a large number of proud parents who are influenced, of course, dominating some valuable system that only money, only money, is important and important, so in a very demeaning way, treat those who should play a fundamental role in creating, therefore, knowledge and I would tell future experts and experts and elite and everything that affects a society somewhere forward? We had a great practice before World War II that children from peasant children had reached the university and had served great and important functions in the state and society. We almost don't have it anymore today. Let's ask ourselves, why is that? Who raised these little peasant children and gave them role models and represented models a few decades ago, what happened today? There's no more school that's got to have that reputation. Such measures do not contribute to increasing the reputation of teachers, teachers, or schools, and that is the most important issue. We listened yesterday to the predicting of a "pink" future but also the present by the government's representatives. But we know what life looks like and we know what these people are facing in both primary and secondary schools, what salaries and what conditions to work with. Please, at least you've made an effort to make an argument for the adoption of this law meaningful and that it further does not humiliate teachers and teachers, but be careful what it says - Bringing this law is necessary to improve the quality of the process of work of secondary and primary schools and institutions of student standards. So isn't this the most cynical explanation that could have been formulated for a law like this? If this is a law to improve the position, or the process of work of secondary and primary schools, then what about the reduction of wages? Did it disable the normal process of working in primary and secondary schools? It won't, of course, be better done by teachers or teachers, but it's very important what kind of message we send to this important profession, how resources in teaching and education will continue to be filled in, will quality people go into education, will our children have good teachers and teachers? These are key issues, because let us not forget and, of course, the 2020 strategy Europe has brought – education is a criterion for development; and in this society, unfortunately, we do not have a relationship with education as a resource for development. And there's one more thing I'm trying to say, through this kind of behavior towards education, to teachers, to teachers, is that there's another thread here that seems to me to be crucial to the behavior and to this government, and when defining the policy of lawmaking, but also to create public opinion, and that's that everything that's smart, everything that she knows, everything she sees right, all of it needs to go through some mud and some tabloid reality, because then we're all equal somewhere. So that's one important, one important thread that we see and that we have to do as MPs and as citizens to recognize, because if we're so easily ready to forgive fake diplomas, then we'll say the same thing – not even really education, you know, it doesn't matter. Now, that is the defeat of this society and this state, I believe that as MPs we must raise our voice against such a relationship to education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38801	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38802	I share the view that education is the basis of the future of every society, and so is our, Serbian, society, but I cannot accept the opinion of the previous speaker, distinguished counterpart Vukkovic, that wages are the only basis for development of education. I can't accept the fact that 94% of the education budget has been going for years, decades, to pay. What can we expect from education if 94% of the total budget goes to salaries? We close our eyes in front of that, and we don't say it's going on any further, for better conditions. Not only are salaries of course very important because these salaries are living, living families, more than 100,000 people in Serbia are related to education and these salaries, but that is exactly what this anomaly has contributed to this kind of education. See what the classroom looks like in the elementary school in The Tower. See what a gym looks like in the same elementary school in The Tower. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Serbian Progressive Party... Look at what it looks like, even though someone throws it without a right, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38803	Please, Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38804	But here the funds for rebuilding these schools went the same way as the funds for building a home for children distracted by development, which Bojan Pajtic robbed, even it wasn't his sacred place, let alone his schooling and took from it. Take a look at what wet knot looks like at the "Drinka Pavlovic" elementary school in Kursumlia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38805	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38806	Please, 30 seconds just to show these pictures. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You are in power for four years. ) See what it looks like and what the "Vuk Karadzic" school looks like at Kladova. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: take that watch off your hands...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38807	Please, Mr. Granny, you'll have to do it another time. Thank you. (Zoran Babić, from the place: See what these schools look like, which is so excellently left to us by the Democratic Party. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Tomic Mrs. Vuchkovic, why you? [[Nataša Vučković, from town: I am reporting for word, replica.]] (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Because Bojan Pajtic robbed something. ) Miss Jerkov, I do not understand this "Because Bojan Pajtic robbed something. “ I don’t understand it. If you think he's been robbed, file it with the D.A.'s office. (National MP Jovan Markovic throws out of place. ) Please don't throw it to Mr. Jovana Markovic, so Mr. Markovic doesn't find himself named on this side. Don't throw, please. (Nataša Vukkovic, from the place: I am reporting for the replica because he mentioned me. He said “the previous speaker. ” ) Mrs. Vukkovic, you're right, the DS was mentioned, but at the end of the day when Mr. Babić was turned off and he no longer had the right to speak, so that I cannot give you a replica. Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38808	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, we should first of all express our satisfaction that the DS will accept this amendment and supplement of the Budget Law, because it shows that it is truly responsible for everything that has happened in education until 2012. When we talk about education at all, it should be said that a lot has been missed by 2012, not only when we look through what is called personal income and wages, but it has been missed a lot of chances of reforming the entire education sector at all. These reforms are not just as we said today, which relate to their personal incomes, professors, teachers who really need to teach our children, because education is a generator for the development of each society, but there is a lot of missed opportunities, especially when the previous government said by 2012, that the economic crisis created in 2008 was one chance for Serbia to develop economically, and thus there was a chance of implementing education reforms. Then reforms show consequences today. The consequences are that according to certain studies and research by the German development agency GIZ of 500 primary and secondary schools, simply, Serbia does not have an adequate calling, i.e. the business profession that needs to bring about a better, i.e. to create new jobs, when it comes to production interests. Thus, during this period, not only four years that the DS ruled, but also before where it participated in power, it did not find for the same neither time nor way to change certain legal solutions in which it would create a sustainable society with regard to its personnel, which is the essence of education, to create such human potential where young people who finish schools will find their jobs adequately. That's the essence that education was meant to be restructured. When we talk at all about financial givings and resolving employees' salaries, we should say that we are now actually trying to solve ad hoc what has been abandoned for years, and it has been abandoned through certain donations and through a certain number of people who have been employed in this sector. In 2008, when Minister Zarko Obradovic met with three representative trade unions from the field of education on December 10th, it was easy to share as a result of these negotiations, which of course referred to salaries of employees in this sector, that all those appropriations in the 2008 budget would be allocated to one-time giving to all teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools. Of course, it didn't happen, because the 2009 proposal was made, so it increased by 1.5 billion, which is still, of course, the trade unions disagreed. When we talk about how much this was required, projected, about 135 billion dinars, 108 of which were real, and what was then the most realistic demand of the unions was to precisely determine the number of employees in this sector. Until the day the SNS didn't participate in the government and didn't run the government, we didn't know not only about the education sector, but about civil servants at all, how many employees really exist in the Republic of Serbia, how much money is allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the salaries of all educational workers at all. What is important to say today, what is signed on 24 April of this year, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, on the fact that educational workers really need to have defined their incomes, is an attempt now in a certain way, in accordance with all the IMF arrangements and first and second and today third audits, indeed to be given at the maximum amount of seven thousand dinars, i.e. in the first proposal of six thousand dinars, covering 110 thousand employees in this sector, but now, according to this new amendment, they are virtually covered by all and that amounting to 145 thousand people. What is more important to say is that in 2008, the Regional Government at the time looked completely at the perspective of resolving the issue of one-time remuneration to the persons in education, so that it had made certain legal decisions from what it had defined in the provisional financing from 1 January to 31 March 2009, and made certain increases through salary increases. This puts the unequal position of teachers and teachers in Vojvodina and teachers and professors in Serbia, not to mention how unequal it was to teachers and teachers in southern Serbia, for the simple reason that at that time the government of Vojvodina had a total budget that was also over those borders prescribed by the Constitution of Serbia and thus led to teachers and teachers feeling humiliated in education. Everything that has been referred to as arguments for today's amendments and additions to the law on SNS and this government that is now trying to solve all problems is simply not standing and simply referring to itself. That is why it is good that it adopts such a bill because it acknowledges that it bears full responsibility for this state of education. It is up to us to really reform this sector in the future and we have announcements from the Prime Minister that it will really enter deep reforms when we talk about education. I think that this is now what is realistic in relation to the 2015 budget, and certainly, Mr. Minister, that in the next year, when the 2016 budget is made, certain solutions will have to be found, especially when it comes to rationalising this sector, that indeed educational workers will in a certain way have not only greater contributions in terms of personal income, but also to raise their level of function within their jobs. Why? Because if we talk about the pay being not the only motivational factor, then surely investment in education, when it comes to school reconstructions, or objects where primary and secondary school students are sitting and relating to the student standard, it will certainly contribute to working conditions in which teachers and teachers can be one of the great motivational factors, but also what is called their education education through the organisation of different types of seminars. In essence, even when we lead to job rationalisation, we will get into a much better situation so that the whole sector understands better why these kinds of decisions are made in the first place. For this reason, in the voting day, we will support such a draft amending and supplement law for the 2015 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38809	Thank you. Dear Peoples MPs, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going back to work. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38810	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and chairing today's session, Mr. Bečić, distinguished guests from the Ministry, Minister Vujovic, you suggest that employees of primary, secondary, higher education institutions and students of the student standard pay once for the sum of seven thousand dinars. I quote you, Mr. Vujovic. Today at the National Assembly session, you said this – we are making a step aside from improving education, returning, respected gentlemen, dignity of education, teachers, teachers, university professors. The teachers of high school, Minister Vujovicu, answer to you, on behalf of the Forum of Belgrade High Schools, by calling on the government to withdraw this proposal because the payment of that sum of seven thousand dinars would be, respected gentlemen, high school teachers in Belgrade say – the ultimate humiliation for educational workers, Minister Vujovic. I ask you - how do you feel when those people who need to get one-time help, whom you say will be dignity, say it to them, Minister Vujovic, is humiliation? Please answer my question, how do you feel about the team? The second thing, why, Minister Vujovic, did you not propose to the Prime Minister that he come here to the National Assembly, gentlemen, to defend the bill that high school professors claim to be a blow to the dignity of teachers and teachers, but, Minister Vujovic, you pushed your backs? Have you asked Mr. Vukic to come to defend this proposal that teachers and teachers have said is a humiliation and unacceptable charity for them, gentlemen? The third thing, Mr. Vujovicu, today you are at the National Assembly session, I listened to you, and then I read the stenogram, to check once again whether what you said was true, said that the help to teachers and teachers in the net amount of 7,000 dinars was just. Here, quote, I quote you, Mr Vujovic, not as some who cite other people's ideas without saying whose idea it is, Minister Vujovic. This is what you said – I think 7,000 dinars are just and good rewards. Minister Vujović, then I ask you – why do you call the action that teachers and teachers treat as a slap of education such as justice, justice and justice, Minister Vujović? Let the hard slap of education, Minister Vujovic, be justice in your court. What makes you so right, please answer me today? The fourth thing, gentlemen, you wrote in your explanation to Minister Vujovic that the adoption of this law is necessary in order to improve the quality of the school work process. Minister Vujovic, I know that you know this, but I need to remind here that the Members of Parliament who are participating in the debate today, that by charity, Minister Vujovic, does not improve the quality of the school work process. Minister Vujovic, I ask you, that is the fourth question, why do you promote the irresponsible availability of state money by the ruling party? Minister Vujovic, please record these questions and answer them. The fifth question, gentlemen, for Minister Vujovic. With this proposal, Mr Vujovicu, you directly discriminate against doctors, for example, or educators or policemen for whom you have not predicted any single dinar of this kind of help or reward. I don't know how to interpret it now, gentlemen. I then ask Minister Vujović – did you make discrimination on the basis of the call as your policy and is what Mr Vučić calls reforming discrimination on people who work in certain professions? I call on all my colleagues in education, all teachers and teachers to invest these 7,000 dinars in one fund of assistance for those teachers and teachers who are existentially threatened. That's what I mean by real resistance to what this government is doing, Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38811	Mr. Pavicevic, I didn't mean to interrupt. I don't think this way is right for you to speak to Mr. Secretary. The MPs now rightly point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic throws out of place. You think you're very important if you mention the Prime Minister more than once. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38812	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm re-advertising the violation of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. - an insult to dignity not only of this Parliament, but of the entire state. Please pay attention, because someone calls this charity. It can't be charity if you're giving something from something you've earned, which is from a real source. Mercy is when you borrow abroad, so you buy people because you think people are slaves and vote for you. It's charity. It's the humiliation of educators. Please, this is their school. In these conditions, our educators worked in their day. Look what the bathroom looks like in the 21st century and they found that here... (National MP Jovan Markovic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38813	Please, Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away. I'm warning you, I'll warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38814	Please respond in the future, Mr. Becic, no one has the right to insult the dignity of the people and the state. This was a shame. This is a shame because in the 21st century, our educators did this, and they should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38815	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and it's easy for someone, as a MP, to tell the educators that they shouldn't accept a fee with a large salary from a MP. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I see that a kind of shift is now taking place at the chair table, and respected gentlemen from the ministry, Minister Vujovic, I believe that he has just been violated by Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, as Mr Djukanovic reported here to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then misused his right to do so, respected Mrs Gojkovic, which instead of telling Mr Becic how Mr Becic injured the Rules of Procedure, replicated it, not even to me, but to the MPs of the DS. I believe it was the obligation of Mr Becic to point out this irregularity to Mr Djukanovic and to tell him that he no longer committed the abuse of the rights arising from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and especially when we speak, Mrs Gojkovic, about the important subject of what education is and that Mr Djukanovic knows that the issue of painting, editing, improving of facades, schools, for example, is the jurisdiction of local self-government, so when we mention the example of the Tower and giving a photo of a school, that it is known that the SNS is in power there and that the SNS through the actions of its representatives, who were in power, could deny it, respected gentlemen, and then to me, who has nothing to do with it, respected Mrs Gojkovic, is saying that I have ruined something, this professor is this, Pavicevic is this. Please, Mrs Gojkovic, correct this action that preceded your arrival and warn Mr Djukanovic not to abuse the right of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that belongs to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38817	If I started to correct myself, I'd start with you, because you did the same thing you pointed to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38818	Do I have two more minutes, Mrs. Gojkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38819	You have no right. The correction is that you have no right, and as far as Article 103 is concerned, it depends on whether you consider him injured, so we'll vote, but you did the same thing. So you're out of the Rules of Procedure completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38820	Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38821	You have no right. Do you want to vote or not? (Yes) Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Vladimir Pavicevic's statement prior to his violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38822	Thank you, Madam President. Something has been said, I will rewrite Mr Pavicevic's lapus, which is the purposeless availability of the ruling party's money. The Serbian Progressive Party is the ruling party and the biggest party in Serbia's political scene. Under the Law on Political Activities, on the conduct and financing of political activities, the DRI has exercised business control both SNS and SPS and DS. What I know, and what are the objections that count one, two, three and the procedural nature, while for the problems relating to the business of DS are measured in teams. So much for this non-intentional availability of funds intended for political activities. On the other hand, which I would like to remind my colleague Pavicevic, which is that there is currently a reconstruction of 50 secondary and elementary schools. They started in August, and will be completed by New Year's Eve, Mr. Pavicevic. The second stage and tender for 80 schools is announced by the New Year and the works start in the spring of 2016. The third phase, the European Investment Bank project, goes to autumn 2016 and covers 70 schools and is due to be completed by 2017. Overall, of 1,257 primary and 441 secondary schools, 200-210 schools are being renovated or renovated at the moment. We're fixing all those screwups you left us, all those wet knots, like this one in Žitoraj, that didn't make SNS, but left the DS to both kids and teachers. Take a look at Užica elementary school “King Petar II”. See what “King Peter II” looks like in Užica. Look at the Sremski Karlovci what the school looks like. That's what we're talking about, talking about the concrete things we're making right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38823	The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I answered. ) First, right on the line, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, distinguished guests from the ministry, Minister Vujovic, I now want to say three things in the replica of the MP, Mr Babic. The first thing, Mr. Babic, I think it's okay for Minister Vujovic to answer five questions I asked him about the debate on this bill. It seems to me that Minister Vujovic has decided to defend himself today by defending himself with silence against the appearances of opposition MPs, gentlemen. The second thing, Mr Babiću, we have finely written in the explanation of our amendments, was not my lapus, this is what we have written – the proposed legislative solution of these 7,000 dinars of one-time aid, the expression of the irresponsible, public policy of the Government of Serbia, because public funds are not available in the best public interest. Dear gentlemen, we have written, here I have written that I express a clear belief that the objectives of the proposed policy are not aimed at improving the status of employees in the field of education, given that in this way it cannot be fixed, but that they represent an expression of irresponsible, Mr Babic, the availability of state money to promote ruling parties. And I asked Minister Vujovic why he does it? And, third thing, Mr. Babic tells us here -- it's going to be a renovated school, it's going to be a painted school by the end of December, so, gentlemen, the manners of the advanced majority here are constantly moving into the future, everything is going to be, we will soon, we will be, we will be, and for what is the summer used, gentlemen? Isn't it time for summer to move, when there aren't any students in schools, when we're not distracting anyone, but now it's gonna be like it's gonna be? And the Tower case, it was time to do it, it wasn't done, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38825	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38826	With pleasure, Madam President, I will invite and bring Mr Pavicevic to Vrnjačka Banja to see how the hall of elementary school in Vrnjačka Banja was reconstructed, as it was completed, after about 70, 80 years, and even when my late father went to school in Lipova, it was such a forwarding government in Vrnjačka Banja and Republika Srpska, when both the carpentry was changed and the isolation and new floors set up. You cannot recognize those schools, under advanced authority, Mr Pavicevic, you don't have to trust me, that's what the citizens of Vranjska Banja believe, and you can come and look at the scene with me. On the other hand, does the government of the Republic of Serbia address the public finances with the attention of a good host? I believe it with all my heart. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia believe. Besides, that's what the results show. It also shows the fact that we are ready to monitor and control the IMF that you have driven out of the Republic of Serbia so that you can have the public finances Burzarically. But what distinguishes us from you, which now public finances, Mr Vujovicu, exist, in contrast to time, during the former regime, so there was no such public finances, so empty cash register, so how can you treat both domestic and non-domestic with something that didn't exist? That's what separates us. The fact that we have filled that register with all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is well locked up, well provided, well controlled and what comes in and what comes out, especially what comes out of it, unlike you, Mr Pavicevic, and from your time when there was only a spider in that register.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38827	The word has the people's messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov, has a replica, waits patiently.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38828	I thank you, Madam President, so I really believe that in a parallel world in which only SNS lives today in Serbia, where the aid of 7,000 dinars is just, in which prices fall, unemployment decreases, citizens live better and better, some schools are renewed and started. You know, when the SNS says that the painting of the school will begin in September 2016 and end in September 2017, a little, don't be angry, but we have reason not to believe you. It will probably be at the same time that a chip factory comes into Serbia for four billion euros, when housing is sold 280 euros per square, when a job at a boing and er-bas business plant finds 50 doctors of science and tens of thousands of workers, when a channel is dug up to Thessaloniki, when "Belgrade on Water" is built, and then probably all of those schools will be renovated. So your promises have proven quite a bit, as our people say, a mad joy. When you talk about what you found. Just imagine you found what you left behind in 2000. Imagine that you found farmers who owed 36 pensions, pensioners who owed 18 pensions, imagine that you found a public debt of 200% of GDP and imagine that you found all that you had to deal with the authority that came at that time. So all the regrets and all the papers you're waving at here, Mr. Babic, take your presidents to the municipalities, tell them it's a shame for the kids to sit in such classrooms and leave us. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38829	Time. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38830	Except for some human change, which we don't know if it's a matter of humor, black humor, kid joke or no kid joke, here we now see changes in DS, at least in definition and in the values they represent. They have now given up both European values and Serbia's European path, so they have also been quoted as saying in the latest report by the European Commission, that unemployment in Serbia is still very high, but that it has been reduced to less than 20%, we have just heard Mrs Jerkov say – whatever this Europe knows, what the European Commission knows, listen to me and so that in a magical way children who have been distracted in development instead of the building, instead of where they will gather, but also parents of children distracted in development, have left nothing, not built, kidnapped, robbed, and money million and 200 thousand euros in a magical way disappeared in the dark fairies of Bojan Pajtic and his close company and people. I will continue to show what education is in Serbia, unfortunately, is one segment of education in Serbia, education as it is left for us. After all, just as everything else has been left for us, destroyed, destroyed and kidnapped. Take a look at the elementary school "23 October" in Sremski Karlovci. So did Bojan Pajtic remember to visit the Sremski Karlovci, did he remember to do anything at that elementary school "23 October"? Look at what looks like in Vlasotin school although I agree that you should still give more chances to children from the interior and from rural areas, look. What do the kids expect in Vlasotanc? One light bulb on three classrooms. See what it looks like also at the elementary school in Vlasotanc "8 October" wet knot. This is the product of DS policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38831	Time, Mr. Granny. Miss Jerkov, you've reached out to the replica. You have the right to a replica, you mention DS, but I would ask all MPs to come back anyway, this is an important topic for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to go back to the topic, because this doesn't lead to anything in this way that we are talking about now when it comes to an important topic. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38832	Thank you. First, I would ask Mr. Babic not to speak – children distracted by development, because it offends those children. It is said: children with developmental disorders, not children distracted by development. So that's one thing first. I'm just asking, I'm not saying, first of all, when the former radicals here teach us what the European Union wants, wants and speaks, and what the EU looks like, it's quite tragic for everyone but themselves, but they really allow themselves to talk, so why not allow and give lessons about the EU, especially because they are so successful in European integration, so much that nothing has happened in the area of Serbia's EU accession since March 2012. It is that you are giving the same European Commission false information. I only ask Mr Vujovic to explain that in 2011, the unemployment of 752 000 unemployed could be 23% unemployed, and in 2015 752 000 unemployed could be 17.9% unemployed? No, sir, you tell people how 10,000 people are employed every day. You're talking about how their salaries and pensions grow. You say prices don't grow. Each of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia sees a liter of oil a year ago cost 100 dinars and today costs 140 dinars. Each of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia knows what his salary was a year ago, and how many times and tens of thousands and a billion times, how many times your minister announced investments to say that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38833	Time. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38834	I'm not defending myself with silence, but I don't want to answer any comments that don't have any basis. As you yourself quoted, the gentleman said I was thinking something. If I don't have the right to express my opinion, then I don't know what I have the right to express? Therefore, your nicknames were not established. That's nice of you to say, but it's without any basis. I have the right to say that I think that seven thousand is a fair fee. I have the right to ask you and ask those people who have made decisions – why in 2010 the salaries in education increased by 1.1% and in the general administration 5.4%? Why in 2011, this difference was reduced, but important, wages increased 6.3% in education and culture, and in the general administration 10.2%? Marko Djurisic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38835	Mr. Djurishic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38836	Why in 2012 did education salaries increase by 6.3% and in the administration 8.4%? There are key pay gaps that we are trying to correct. Therefore, our intention is to correct these mistakes. In the first nine months of this year's education salary is 83% of the public administration's salary average at all levels. That's better than it was at those years I was just quoting, where the bottom was 79%. It's not much, but it's better. With these 7,000, it's also going to be better. You have some legitimate questions, but I don't think there's any need to be offended and there's no need to ask rhetorical questions that offend personality and attitude and everything else. I thank Mrs. Representative, now the official representative of the DS. I am pleased and welcome all your suggestions, but I think we should work, and that is why I said, together, in a statement at the beginning of the session, that we watch 7,000 in tandem together with the proposed 4% salary increase, which is the biggest proposed increase. When we talked about the sustainability of all these proposals, then we talked about cumulative increases, not individual things. So look at this in the context of this total increase. I understand your need to rekindle a political debate that respects neither the economic nor the other blades. We can have special debates, but it really doesn't make sense that at this session we're talking about 600 million on one side and 600 million on the other side. Is she generous? I don't know if she's generous, but she's from the heart. I know we've worked as hard as we can and we're behind it. Repeat, I think that's what we can offer under the given conditions. I know unions aren't happy with that. I know that education takes a lot more, but we try to do it in not only one place but also other places. As you know, we're launching projects and innovations in education that need to help and find the right way to support the highest-quality staff in all education, from primary schools to universities. It was the hardest thing for us to do when we talked to the education unions, since these people are closer to basic education, they have less respect and less base to strengthen their material status. People literally say they tie shoes with a rope. So, that's sad. I'm sorry you feel this as a palitative measure that doesn't make sense. I think every step towards a better solution is a good step. I think we're doing this for good, and I think this is just the first step in solving this situation. Our colleagues are already doing a deep analysis of the education sector. People are individually paid very little, so people point out that we have an education sector structure that is unsustainable on a longer term. We have schools where the whole elementary school has 50 students. No one can keep that on the long term. Therefore, it is not a question that teachers do not want to work, but it is a school with an average of four, five or six students per class. It's not only expensive, it's not offering basic assumptions of learning. I can't let students learn in such small... Learning is a social matter. We need to look for solutions that will help us solve both the problem of education and the problem of costs and the problem of knowledge acquired in that education, because I have the impression that we are neglecting that part. We need to change the way we look at the whole thing and use methods that other countries, which have similar problems, introduced, and that's the problem of aging the village, that's the problem that we have an extra school in one place and a huge lack of schools elsewhere. It's a problem that we need to have better co-operation between different ministries, to use it in an adequate way. In the same places, we have a lack of space for older people and extra school space. In other places, we have children in two shifts and over 40 in class. It's extreme. Too many students who can't learn, and the other extreme is too few students who don't have socialization, who don't have what's called peer pressure in learning. When children see that others can, they try. When there are only three or four students, then it ceases to be a real social process in which it is best learned. I understand your intention to say it's not enough and I accept that. Thank you. Let me add – to whom the decision concerns, i.e. a proposal to amend a member of the law. It refers to everything in education, and whether the government's decision to specify which target groups will be, this will be the subject of a government review, including proposals from the education ministry and all decisions. As you know, we are a voting government. Therefore, the decision is made by all ministers of the government. I said what I thought about what happened over the years. It is our duty to try to correct everything that happened earlier and create a basis for us to move forward. As I said in the previous sentence - we do so by, in addition to the measures that we are improving the current situation, doing diagnostics in each sector, having a strategy to develop this sector and using domestic and other resources to solve problems in these sectors. Therefore, I ask you not to use the terms – in your cowardice you refused to reduce the enlightenment less than others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38837	Just hit the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38838	Last year, we were in a position to define in a short time the total fund of wage cuts and pensions, which was an initial and necessary, painful but necessary chapels in the start of the reform process. Every dinar that we've reduced back then, we've made savings of 4, 5, 6 dinars in expenditures. The deficit is less by 600m euros than what we planned together here in December last year, which is a huge success and that suits everyone, who helps make this country's debt smaller, which helps the cost of interest be lower and leaves more resources to solve the problems of the past and make a budget for next year that will be better and that will just enlighten the highest relative salary increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38839	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go. ` (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I was signed up for replication. First, don't yell. Secondly, I was informed by Vice President Igor Becic that the circle of replicas is over. I believe him, indeed, and as much as I've followed these minutes, as long as I haven't been outside, you've answered the line, Babic, and then you're going to speak to the minister. I think he broke that he didn't stop you because you didn't get a line on the minister. Wait your turn, and you'll talk a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38840	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, I would first of all like to thank you for your dedicated work, but it is important for the citizens of Serbia, and also for you, because it seems to me that some have forgotten what the topic of the agenda is today, what we are talking about here today. There's no problem talking about any other subject. Today, the topic of the agenda is whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will approve the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give all educational employees, including professors at the university who were not scheduled for the first plan, to be paid for a one-time support of 7,000 dinars. So that's the topic. It's not about taking someone somewhere, especially to humiliate someone, but to see what it is that we can do and, above all, for those teachers and teachers who have modest salaries, but also for those 19% of people who have salaries below 25 grand, who no one has touched. For them, this is and how great, very, very significant, and I'm quite sure that's why they're happy. I'd like to inform you all, since I've seen that many have mistreated all of this, that I have personally spoken to representatives of all the representative unions of education, with everyone. Their request was, which we didn't respect, to pay seven thousand dinars. We didn't respect him, I asked for five, somehow we were able to beg the IMF to get to six thousand dinars. The trade unions insisted, particularly Mr Pavlovic, to raise this to 7,000 dinars, we succeeded in the last days of our difficult negotiations with the IMF. It's the same fund that was in Serbia, otherwise you know, in 2011, after a catastrophic crisis and the biggest fall in Serbia's history since 3.6% in 2009. They tried to tell them something and explain it. Who's there, did people run off with their heads after a month or were thrown out after a month? For a month, their stay here lasted, and then people realized there was no future here and they left Serbia. So these people are here today, confirming the third revision, the third audit confirms we're very successful. Then we were able to agree to accept all union demands on that matter. Of course, people would like it to be much more, to be much better, to be understood, and to give seven thousand dinars not only to teachers and teachers, but also to teachers. Not because it's too much to mean to them, it's not small and it's not insignificant, I know there are people out there who are insignificant, we don't. It's not insignificant to us, because you have to bear in mind that the seven thousand dinars we're going to pay will pay us with taxes and contributions to cost, for God's sake, and seventeen and eighteen billion, 1.7-1.8 billion. If it's for some small or small money, give it to us, for God's sake, so let's see how we can solve these problems. I think that it helps these people, and those who would like to hold on to political tyranny, don't hold on to our political burdens because something in Serbia is worse than they are holding on to political tyrants because they would probably make it so much better, and they've put us in a position to have the biggest drop in our production, and when we haven't had floods and droughts, they've put us in a position that we've had such a galloping public debt growth, unrecognizable in Serbian modern history, that we've had a fiscal deficit that grew from year to year, they've led us to the complete collapse of the Serbian economy. Today, when the Serbian economy, after many years, is growing, comes out of recession, today when our economy is recovering, today when we start to return to some what we, because of your irresponsibility, had to take you temporarily, and we give some more than we have ever had, you tell us – it's small. It's a little bit, but it goes into plus, and you've all been a lot and it's gone down, that's the difference. I'll read it to you now, see what it looks like. They say 4% is small, not enough. When you're not paying 4% out of credit, you're paying out of what you've earned and saved, I think it's a lot, it's not for people, people are hard to live, and another 10% to increase, they'd live something better, but they'd still be hard to live. So you destroyed and destroyed their lives that even 20% when we increase it won't be easy to live, but we'll do it. I've been expecting a lot of things, I have to admit to you, on a number of issues, but someone's going to react so hysterically at the moment we raise salaries and pensions, and, look, we signed an agreement with the IMF that it's going to be frozen and we're not going to increase anything. We've done so much good by the IMF that they've let us start doing that. They said in their report – go on like this, you'll do it next year. And we're going to keep doing that next year, and if someone stops it, that's what people need to know in Serbia, if someone stops it, and if they listen to those who teach us every day, if someone stops these reforms, we'll go back, we'll go back to galloping public debt growth, we'll go back to the past where all the responsibility was when, and how not responsible that something increased before someone's election and that there's no system. For the first time in modern history, we are building a serious system, a system that supports the whole world, which has nothing to do with politics, has to do with the economy, has to do with the lives of our citizens. For the first time in many years, after 27 years, Serbia has, by chance or not, imagine, the first time in 2015 will have more cattle than in the previous year, and all the time this has gone down, absolutely all the time. If nothing, that dramatic fall, which the Serbian politicians have been throwing at us all previous years, we have managed to stop everything. We have received recognition from the IMF and Serbia is being taken as an example, as one of the five countries in the world today, as programmes are being implemented. We are one of two countries in total, which during the duration of the programme, thanks to the provision of a larger fiscal space, has been given the right and opportunity by the IMF to raise salaries and pensions, one of two. So we had such a good time. I want to tell you the following thing, that I am grateful to our people who understand everything, that I am grateful to our people who have understood everything well, because those who say today – you have increased the pensioners by 300 dinars, we are, to those who have not lost anything, to those who have lost nothing, something little more to those who have lost, but to them and to everyone else, in so far as we establish such a system, and not all of it is based on public spending, but on exports and investments, as we have succeeded in the implementation of the programme so far. We will continue to increase pensions, raise salaries and educators and health workers and social workers, both police and military. We're talking about something people are deliberately hiding. You may have noticed that. We made a decision in one day. If we increased that by a dinar, for a dinar, I'm not talking about a hundred, two hundred, three hundred, five hundred dinars, somewhere in some segments a thousand, two, three, as to whom, but that we increased by a dinar, we increased yesterday by 2,150,000 people. Well, just for the money to give, that's 250,000 dinars. When you say a hundred dinars, that's 210 million and I don't know how many thousands. So, just that these people have in mind how many people we pay salaries and pensions, and we pay them regularly, no day late. We're not like some in the environment, so three days a month, so five days a second month, so seven days a third month is late and eventually the monthly pension disappears through the same fiscal year. We don't have that kind of scam. We don't have those tricks. Like a Swiss watch, every month on the same day. It's not enough, but it's always regular and it always comes. We're slowly increasing, just as much as our economy is growing. Not as long as it takes us to win the election, but as much as our economy is growing, as much as our economy is growing. Let me read to you, dear friends, that you can only see how much it is, and add these 1.8 billion to that, which is not a net effect on the deficit, but I'm talking about our total allocations, 7,000 single-time giving to all educational workers, counting both higher and higher education staff. So, as far as the Ministry of Education is concerned, it's a total of 141.807 people, everyone will have an increase in income. The total amount will be 3.779,570,000. So if someone thinks it's small, we only spend about 30m euros more for education than we did in the previous year. In doing so, of course, mostly for primary education and secondary education, for teachers and teachers. It's slightly smaller because of the number of executives in higher university education, although their incomes are the highest. That's exactly why the IMF wanted them not to get any more dinars. They think they're overpaid, and we thought they weren't, because we especially wanted to show respect for university professors, not to separate them from others, and we wanted to work even more valuablely, so that we had children who would come out with more knowledge, who would be able to apply that knowledge and who would show again that our economy could move forward. As far as health care is concerned, we had 128,167 health workers. In total, similar to in school, 3,207,580,000. If it's a little money for someone, it's not for us. Small money for those who didn't care what money it was, who didn't care, a billion, two, three, five, ten, just to throw themselves at them, to see how much they could spend, and in what state the state of Serbia didn't worry them very much. I will remind you, it was in a state of bankruptcy, both the IMF and the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. What were they all running from Serbia? What they thought was the last hole in the play, and it was on the "Duing Business List" between 97th and 115th place. By the way, today this failed Serbia, they say, is in 59th place, and I promise you it will be below 40th place by the year. I want our pensioners to know, since they took the greatest burden of this on themselves, for 60% of pensioners were not reduced, the costs did not grow, inflation was almost zero, but we managed to, given the huge number of people in retirement today, start by showing that Serbia is moving forward and that the Serbian economy is growing. Unfortunately, our pensions today depend on the Serbian economy and its strength. Because what we get from the pension fund can be between 48% and 51%, and everything else we pay directly from the budget, from what we have to earn. So it depends on the power of our economy. Our economy was collapsed, destroyed, a country ahead of bankruptcy, but we stopped it and today we don't have a single negative trend. If you look at the IMF report, you'll see that all the trends we're talking about are absolutely positive. For the first time in many years, all the trends in our country, I'm talking about economic indicators, very, very positive. We still have a lot of trouble and problems ahead of us. These are public enterprises, public enterprises reforms, these are rationalisation and the creation of a more efficient administration. Perhaps bigger than all these problems is the privatisation process, especially in those companies that have not acted and are not acting markety today. You can throw whatever you want at me, but the fact that you won't change will, and these are the facts. What to do, the fact that you change, and I see something, and with the people, you're not doing well. Come on, I don't trust you, but the people don't trust you. So, as far as pensions are concerned, to just keep in mind how much money we spend, and we still want to cut our deficit, and then you'll hear about why we have that deficit, only for pensioners who have up to 20,000 dinars, there are 777,917, at least in large cities, and the most in the south, east and west of central Serbia, only 1.25% for them is the amount of annual increase. Only that 1.25% for people up to 20,000 dinars is a billion and 495 million. So 12.13m euros is just an increase of 1.25% for 770,000 people with pensions of up to 20,000 dinars. So these are the people who live the worst, who live the hardest, who basically barely end up with the end. So our decision was not only to pay back those who had bigger pensions, such as my parents, but to give those who had the least, to show that we cared about the poor, to show that we care about those who knew they were hard to live and we know that they destroyed their lives with their criminal and catastrophic policies in the previous period. That they finally see that hope somewhere and that ray of light at the end of the tunnel and that they know that it will come next year, that they will know that in 2017 they will come to a greater extent, if we are successful, if we are disciplined, if we are responsible and if we are serious enough. From 20 to 25 thousand 882 million, because we have a large number of people here. On those five thousand, it's 263,271 pensioners. So 882 million and 837 grand is an increase in our budget. A total of six billion and 35 million and we don't have any budget returns here, because you don't have taxes, you don't have contributions, you don't have anything to pay back, so you can reduce the net effect on the deficit. So all we pay off is a pure deficit that we have to count on. I also want to tell you that the IMF was originally absolutely against increasing wages to our officers and our soldiers. We made it to 2%. I'm especially proud that we took care of social workers who don't have much. There are 10,951, but we've managed to increase them by 3%. I know it's not enough, but I know these people and how they can respect it and understand what it is that the state is doing. What is it that happened and what is it and why are you hearing more hysteria today than ever? The reasons are very simple. They don't stand in these numbers. The figures sometimes show, sometimes not quite what life is like in Serbia. But what is unequivocally clear is that the Republic of Serbia and the IMF and the World Bank and IBRD and IDA, therefore, not according to Alexander Vukic or any of you, according to the EU's assessment, is on the right track, especially in the economy. For the first time, we will be able to say that we are the largest economy in the former Yugoslavia. We were able to say that at one point in 2013, and again not in 2014 and again in 2015. This does not mean that we have a big "percapital" reception, but I want to tell you one more thing if we succeed in doing everything we need to do in the middle of 2017, the public debt will go down against GDP. It's a historic thing, and it's precisely how we're getting closer and how we've managed to stop at the galloping growth of the public debt they left us in the amannet, and so the anxiety of everyone else will be greater. The nerves are going to get bigger and bigger as soon as they can explain that what's better is not better, that everyone sees that it's better, that they don't actually see it well, so they're going to say they're jokes, and they weren't jokes when people are really increasing their pensions by 10%, and inflation is 25%. It's true, it wasn't a joke, it was real, and in fact they cut people's pension 15% and a little bit stronger than that, and they told them they'd increased 10%. You see, we don't have that kind of scam. We have inflation zero, we have an IMF agreement for those 1.25%, which is minimal for those 1.25%, we're going to live better, 1.25 plus 1.25, plus 1.50, plus 2.00%, so everyone's going to feel it. And the way they ran our country, look at today's dear friends, we're paying off this year and we've paid a billion and 70 million euros. You know what we pay for? We pay 7.5% interest that geniuses, experts, have left on five-year loans, on short-term loans. On short-term five-year loans, and we were attacked by loans that we were structurally reducing expenditures that were ten years long-term with 2% interest. Do you see what's been going on in this country? We'll have a billion and 300m euros to return the interest next year. A billion and 300m euros, the worst year of 2016, a billion and 300m euros to return. And look now, we've got a billion and 70 million this year. Our total deficit on today is less than 400m euros. We're back, it's 600 at the end of the year, I don't think I'm going to tell you right now -- it's going to be smaller, it's going to be 500, let's say. Which is minimal, because we went to three billion and two and a half billion euros in deficits. So, when you look at me, we pay a billion and 70m euros as a state only on interest and together with these interest rates, our total deficit is only 500, which means we are in surplus of 570m euros. That means we've been very serious and responsible. Well, we in every month, maybe in one month this year, every month of this year we have a primary surplus, every month. Every month we made more money than we spent counting the interest the genes left us that we had to pay, and they did nothing from the projects. They made highways. They tried highways. And, Belgrade – Cacak, so they left us the way to do things that have also not been finished because some genius came up with it, because it's an extraordinary thing in the election campaign to move on. Well, they left the Ub - Likovac highway 12.5 kilometers from the start. You enter the field, there's corn, and Ub – Lykovac is 12.5 kilometers, so, you get into the corn, you don't know what, with a mop, you get on the highway, and you can go into the same corn after 12.5 kilometers. We did it, that's how the geniuses did it, you know that we don't even have an open tender today for the Obrenovac – Surchin, because people who want to take the highway to Chačka have to swim the Sava. Since the car has nowhere else to go, they have to get out of the car to swim, then get some rope to pull the car so they can get to Ub, so they can get to Chuck somehow. Well, if I were to tell you about Corridor 10, about the Sitch and the Credella gorge, we might not be able to tell fairy tales, but the basses to talk about, because it's just not like a fairy tale. And here in the Sitch ravine, where Nisha goes, even the skeletons wouldn't help us. Quick water, that's where the skeletons don't even work. It's not worth anything to us. They've never done anything in all their years. The railroad, when we came to power, it went on average. Today it's at least 12 kilometers higher, which is a disaster. But it's going to go, believe me, 70 kilometers and 80 kilometers more average per hour, and that's what some other people are going to do, so they don't worry much. For the first time in livestock production, we don't have a fall. For the first time in ten years in construction we have no fall. How can I tell you, I think that's something he's saying. I think people understand that very well. For the first time in many years, we have a decline in unemployment and employment growth that confirms both the IMF and the World Bank, not the Republic of Serbia or Aleksandar Vukic. Why don't someone enjoy the good news and why someone likes to have and see bad news in everything. I have to say, I can't understand it anymore. The people in Serbia seem to understand it a little better than I do. I'd also like to point out one more thing, they've been dealing with the legal issue for 15 years. We legalized 1,850 objects last year, based on all these regulations. We're going to bring a new Law of Law now, it's important news to the citizens, because of them and I'm saying, in which, for family housing, up to 100 square meters of total, you're going to need all 5,000 dinars to legalize it once and for all, but it's going to be mandatory. For those up to 200 square meters between 100 and 200 meters to 15,000 dinars, therefore, for 100 euros you will be able to legalize the house. For family and housing houses between 200 and 300 to 20,000 dinars, and for those over 300 square meters for rich people up to 400 euros maximum. I think it's something that's never been offered to people in such a way and that once and for all we want to finish it, it's not, budget costs are fiscally neutral, you know, that's why Vujovic frowned, because here the state can't get anything. The state can't make any money here, but we want our people to make money because after that, they'll be able to be on the real estate market. After that, their real estate will be worth more and after that we will eventually end up with that story, stopping wild construction. I told you all of this, dear friends, because in Serbia today there is a desire not to see good results, not to see objective results, but to see the anger and hysteria of those who have lost power and not to trust the people to return. It's very important that as much as we can fight to point out the truth to the people. I am therefore grateful to you, too, honourable MPs, who sometimes with too much food, but I can understand that, you answer certain remarks. No need, you're just telling the truth. He knows the people who are responsible and how responsible he is for the hard life. See the people who work today, see the people who are in the hall, and who are not, see the people who are doing both 10 and 12 hours today, and who are the lezilebovics who never do anything, but just watch them say something somewhere against their country. They're the same ones who were looking for a reason and not to be satisfied when we won the Union, or when we won, we didn't lose, or when we won the UN. They are the same, dear friends, who told us that the Croats had imposed sanctions on us, so it was just us, until the whole world said there was no fault of ours, who told us that these sanctions would last for months and years. I remind you that it took us 36 hours to introduce our countermeasures, so they didn't say after that. Sorry, we cheated on the public. They are the same ones who teach us jokes every day, and they joked at the expense of disabled children and stole a million euros from Serbian citizens, misleading disabled children that they would make a home for them. And you probably think the same thing every time other people get their interests together, so it seems to them -- there's a chance for us, here's our chance, look, these guys from this embassy are on their way, they're coming from that embassy against these guys, there's some more news, there's gonna be someone else going to attack them, come on now, and we're gonna do something. (Wolceta Toskovic, from place: He can't. Well, maybe you can, maybe it does, but don't underestimate our people. Our people, the Serbian people, and all other citizens of Serbia are bearers of sovereignty in this country. It is they who decide, and it is they who decide, not anyone's embassies, and not anyone else outside the borders of this country. I want to thank you once more for your attention and don't get angry, at some point I'm going to leave you, because we have guests from Italy, in the Chamber of Commerce, but to cheer you up again, I'm going to come and kick my ass like I always do, which is behind their hands. And don't worry, I'll be there in the afternoon. I'm kind of free today after six hours, so I've got all night and all night to answer the most difficult questions and I'm absolutely sure and I'm absolutely sure that every time they show that they have a great and powerful argument and they're going to be at 50% tomorrow, and they're going to bring us down to their 3% to 4%. Thank you and happy work I wish you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38841	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38842	President, you've injured a 106th member who says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Today, we have a law on supplementing the Budget Law, which is always more known as budget rebalancing, and that is the theme, these seven thousand for educational workers in Serbia. This is where we heard about everything. Most importantly, and I support it, it has a lot more cattle in Serbia and that our livestock production...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38843	Ambassador, we're not going to replicate, so that's because...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38844	No, let me just tell you what you did wrong. We heard “a rope, ” so we heard that“ more than ever... “, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38845	Okay, you're quoting the prime minister, quote me now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38846	I beg you, since it has been announced that, which is good that the Prime Minister is here today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38847	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38848	Is the agenda changing? As far as I'm concerned, absolutely – yes. If it's parliamentary issues today, let's know, because it's not usually this Thursday, but if it's supposed to be today, I'm asking you to let us know, so that's how we deal with the debate on the agenda. I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38849	All right, I got to answer it. I'll answer you for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The speaker was talking about the agenda point, how can I explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38850	The throats of cattle? The throats of cattle and educators have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38851	All right, I'll pretend I don't hear it. Ringe-ringe-ray, it just fits some people to say tra-la-la like they think. Whoever explains the economy and the way it runs our country's economy, you've heard about it a little while ago, so you have different views on the economy and on explaining to Serbian citizens how the economy is run, so I couldn't, I don't see what I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I don't write speeches to people, to you or to the Prime Minister. If you do, we'll vote to see if you might have a majority and think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. We'll see about that in two days when there's a vote. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) (Marian Rističević, from the place: Rules of Procedure. ) You all think that, I just have to finish this, do you all want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, just don't do it by article 107 since we've absorbed it? I have to take my turn, I'm afraid, I have to take my turn. The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38852	A colleague named Zivkovic appeared under Article 106. I'm reporting by article 107. Rules of Procedure. The Honorable Chairman, this is not a session of the SNS' main committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38853	I know, but can you just tell me a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38854	Article 107 I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38855	You can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38856	In 106, he advertised, which I reminded you of on time, you said wrong, 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38857	Now 107?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38858	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38859	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38860	Article 107 says the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Prime Minister Vukic spoke of MPs who are in hysteria. He spoke of MPs who were lying. He said in a way that the MPs of the opposition were traitors, which we heard from his head of the parliamentary group these days. This isn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38861	I'm very sorry, MP, but you are now insulting Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38862	This isn't a session of the SNS main committee, and he can't speak his demagogue here that he'll...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38863	We will not insult the Prime Minister who has come to defend the bill before us. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: What did you take my word for? I took your word for it because I understood your intention for two minutes. So when you take offense, then I use my right to listen to you in two minutes. I understand the trend, and I understand the need for you to take it easy with the prime minister, but let's get the arguments on the agenda, let the Rules of Procedure go. (Alexander Wolfie, from the scene: "Can I just do it?" You can, go ahead. The Prime Minister wants a word past this. Do you want to vote? (Janko Vesenović, from the post: You can't follow the procedure. I'll finish the procedure, I'm the master of procedure. Article 108, 107. What about article 106? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Article 107.) Article 107. We'll vote, won't we? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. Take it easy, don't get nervous, we've got plenty of time, we'll work. Here, you wanted a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38864	Excuse me, Mr. Risticevic, if I may beg your pardon. Just two words for an additional explanation. Here, of course, it's not about budget rebalancing, because we came here for a one-time payment, for giving money to people, not because we didn't calculate something well. We calculated, maybe someone was right, bad, because we provided and got a lot more money on the income side than we wanted and we planned and we spent a lot less money on the distribution side. However you interpret it, the citizens of Serbia should know that everything we talked about is very positive. I've never called anyone a traitor, and don't make it up, whoever says such things, because it's perfectly clear that someone needs it just like that, I guess there's no other political tools and weapons, but let's make something up so we can dream and go back to the '90s, so we can be in our saddle, because that's something we can say. It's been a while. It's been a long time, and it could've been with nonsense and labels to get something. I only reported to you today for one reason, so that I could explain to the citizens that I could say certain things to you, and now I only reacted to people to understand that when someone was talking about rebalancing, it was always encouraged by the fact that our expenditures were higher and our incomes were lower. This time we have revenue higher, and expenditure less than planned and it's crucial and it's a big deal for this country, whether someone liked it or not. Don't mind me, and sometimes I want to go into a discussion with you, sometimes a replica to make, to answer a question. You're so famous, I'd like some of your glory, too, so I can become famous. If I answer you, someone will start talking about me in Serbia. I think it's a natural wish, like your natural desire, so I think it's completely normal and completely understandable somewhere. Democratic culture requires that both of you, so I have no problem listening to everything except that you don't put in my mouth what I haven't said for one second and I haven't talked about traitors for a second. I was talking about something else, even if someone was looking forward to doing it in UNESCO or not, but what he was saying before and what expectations he had and, after that, he didn't want to admit what the result was. That's all it was about. I think it's something that's very important for our country. What I'm not going to let you do, maybe that's why I'm wrong, and that's why I'm grateful to five or ten SNS MPs because they're willing to fight the insinuation and the untruth. I have not, for many, experienced the National Assembly in a way to come and go, and not to fight, for one simple reason that I will not allow anyone without an answer to dissuade someone's hard, hard work, someone's success. You know, as Mesa Selimovic said -- we Serbs are known to despise those who are less successful and to hate those who are more successful or who are more successful. I'm glad I feel like I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about a little bit of the public, about noticing this second trend, which is good, which means we're much, much more successful than those who have managed this country before. This trend will continue, and I will fight until the last drop of sweat for Serbia, and I will fight until the last drop of sweat so that Serbia will not return to the past that you have so decorated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38865	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 and Article 104. Article 103 speaks of the right of MPs to advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure, and that is an undeniable right, even those who rightly challenge me. My fellow farmer had the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, but he had no right to use it as a replica. He had no right to talk about the number of throats, since he ended up high around the economics. I have to say that he hurt the Rules of Procedure by not noticing that the number of throats certainly increases GDP, that the number of throats certainly increases GDP in the slaughterhouse, that this increases revenues and that we can also increase expenditures in the public sector. Since he's an economist and I'm a farmer and he's a farmer trying, I'm obliged to explain to him that his advertising was in vain. In the end, let's say, because of each other, the turned-over MP, that I don't think we've calculated the number of throats in the cattle fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38867	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. There's no replica. The breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't have a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Replica prime minister. ) You did not mention the name and last name. You're not mentioned in the political option, the political party. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I recognized myself. You can't recognize yourself. In what, traitors? About rebalancing? No, you didn't understand the speech at all. I'm sorry, I can't help it. You really didn't understand the Prime Minister. He wasn't talking to you. I'm sorry you recognized yourself in anything. The word has been given by the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Prime Minister and Honored Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has just been injured by Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the right of a National MP, gentlemen, in line. I remind you, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, that I was the last speaker in the order of registered speakers. After my speech, said Mr Babic, Vujovic, the other gentlemen. Mr. Vukic is here, too, dear Mrs. Gojkovic. I think that on the basis of the fact that all these people and gentlemen MPs and gentlemen of the government reacted to what I was saying, because I last said, I deserve the right to reply now, Mrs Gojkovic, both to the Prime Minister, Mr Vucic, and so to Minister Vujovic, but so to the Members of the People's Parliament, for example. Mr. Babic. The second thing, Mrs Gojkovic, and Mr Vukic to hear, article 205 is also injured, two members, who define the right of MPs to parliamentary issues. Mr. Vukic said earlier, Mrs. Gojkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38869	It has to go directly. It's Wednesday. So, we'll talk about it Thursday.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38870	It's Thursday, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38871	Thank you. No injured Rules of Procedure. I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure because... I'll wait for you to smile from the heart, and then I'll go on. Can I have some more laughs, and then I can go on? Laughing is healthy, at least we've moved the atmosphere of an absolutely negative one this morning, a little bit more positive, so we'll keep working. So, I couldn't, with my best wishes, I desperately want to give you a replica, but the prime minister while you were speaking was in a car from Nemanja 11 to the parliament building. He didn't listen to you for five minutes, and I can prove it. Therefore, nothing was relevant to your speech. Next time. It promises to come later, if you haven't spent your five minutes, you'll be very happy to settle. I now give my word to the MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic, to continue to talk. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understand that you want to, but the prime minister apologized to all of you and the citizens of Serbia, that he will come later, when the meeting is over. Here, he'll be here at 1800 hours and he'll be very happy to take a nap with you. Remember everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38872	I was just trying to resent the Prime Minister. I'll be uncomfortable when it comes out to talk about it. Never mind. I'm surprised by the Prime Minister that he's a masochist in some way. Why do I say that? Those who attack him most, who speak worst of him, who make false and false, have his greatest favor. The opposition colleagues asked for the Prime Minister to come and he met their request immediately. He showed that in some ways they were kinder to him than we were to him on this side, because he's always criticizing us that we're working a little bit, that we're not working hard enough, that we're not trying hard enough, and those who talk about him all the worst, except they don't get caressed by the hair. But to move from that side to what's the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38873	Please, just so your colleagues calm down a little, who wants to stay, who gets out, so you can expose yourself. I'm asking everyone who wants to come out and do it in silence. Proceed, please, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38874	As far as we can see here at this session today, and so it was on the Education Committee, we all agree, and we all say that we will vote in favour of this proposal by the government to allow the employees of the education to receive 7,000 dinars. Is that a lot? Of course it's not much. Is that enough? It's not enough either. But we have to take the first step to give these people something, because if we want to cross a certain part of the road, we have to take the first step. If we want to achieve a goal, we have to do the same thing in the first place. That's the way it is in this case. I remember, in my time, when my kids asked me to give them some money, I asked them how much you needed, a friend of mine said, the more you give, the less you'll embarrass yourself. Here's the situation, and now our government. The bag is not bottomless, the bag has a bottom, it has a certain amount of money available to the government, and at this point the government and the resolution minister saw that it was the amount proposed by the Assembly. I hope that in the future we will all together and colleagues from the opposition and trade unions and employees in the education of joint forces find a modus how to fix their position regarding salaries and working conditions. Have we sinned about education and people employed in education? We did, and we did a lot. It's not just this government, it's something that, people, is back 20, 30 years and more. We've been going back and forth for 20, 30 years, destroying this education system, and now there's no wizard who's going to be able to fix it with one move, with a magic stick, all of a sudden, to make it right. Let this be the first step. Let this be a hope for these people and that they can see that someone is taking care of them and that in the future there will be more and more of these attempts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38875	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38876	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with members of your cabinet, honourable fellow MPs, the Budget Law is the most important law parliament adopts in the course of the year. They're also important to the same extent, I think, and his additions. I have to admit, by reading it, the least I could say, I was caught up with this bill and this kind of bill. I expected at least a decent explanation with valid reasons for its adoption. Your argument consists of a few shrubs and is given the impression that this and this bill of law has been sent to the Assembly for consideration. It is unacceptable, Mr. Minister, that such important laws do not contain in their reasoning the facts that MPs would convince us that the government really knows what it is doing. Look at the explanation and you'll see for yourself. A sentence stating the reasons for passing the law tells us nothing. What does your sentence really mean – the law is passed to improve the quality of the process of work of secondary and primary schools? Could this bill be the result of a strike in an announcement, perhaps an agreement by the minister of education and the union of educators? MPs who will decide on this law want to know. Mr. Minister, who is and on the basis of which fact did you assess or decided that you should improve, as you say, just the work of primary and secondary schools? Wasn't material assistance needed by employees, say, in preschool institutions. I will remind you and they are part of the entire education and education system in the Republic of Serbia, and they are left out of this opportunity or perhaps there is no material help for them because there is no strike in the announcement or perhaps the government thinks that employees in preschool institutions are doing less responsible work than they do in primary and secondary schools. You will say that they do not receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget, that they are in the jurisdiction of local administrations and thus you will be fenced against the demands of 22,000 employees in pre-school institutions. A solution for them could also be found in the amendments in Article 17. Budget law. You know that well. I think this abandonment of employees in preschool institutions is a huge failure, since I suppose an amendment will be adopted requiring that, apart from staff in primary and secondary schools, the payment of a one-time amount will be covered by employees in higher education institutions and institutions of the student standard. Mr. Minister, from this explanation, we cannot find out what number of educators will receive this one-time payment, as you call it, the amount of funds is necessary to pay off this aid, and there is no such information in the bill. So it was necessary to show us that there was exactly a figure of 7,000 dinars or 6,000 dinars. Whether the six thousand figure, or seven thousand dinars, is the result of the necessary and necessary analysis or the result of someone's goodwill, of course I don't mean the IMF. You say the funds were secured in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but you didn't tell us, or you didn't tell us if they were in the current budget reserve or somewhere else we didn't know about. Too many questions relating to a law that practically adds only one position to a member. Mr. Minister, the information you gave us here at the beginning of your presentation was to be presented in the bill. All in all, back to applying the bill, almost like that without a valid explanation with huge failures and this time happiness should only have some employees in education, if it can be called happiness at all. You take away 50,000 and give them back six or maybe 7,000. Is the adoption of this law going to cause new additions to the Budget Law, and for the benefit of all those who can be organised on a union basis? Mr. Minister, what about the other users of public funds, health workers, cultural employees, police, the military, local administrations and the most vulnerable and damaged pensioners? Do they need help? Of course it is. Return all users of public funds to what has been taken from them with a lex specialization. As we listen these days, we've just had a chance to hear from the government, that the system of public finances is stable, that the budget deficit is far lower than planned, employment is now on the rise, and it's logical that everyone, who is covered by the Lex specialise, is returned the amount and receipts taken from them. It is only right and necessary to improve the quality of life of all those who receive their salaries and pensions from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I hope in this sentence you recognize part of your reasoning of this law. Parliament group Boris Tadic, SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, will not support this bill, not because it does not think and wish well for educational workers, but because I think all public sector employees and pensioners who are damaged by the application of the "lex specialis" should be returned as much as they have been taken away, no more. And finally, by the way, Minister of Education Srdjan Verbic today said that one-time assistance to employees in education of seven thousand dinars is realistic and that those union representatives who believe such a decision is not fair can return money to the republican budget. Of course, he repeated what the prime minister said on Wednesday, and I'll quote him -- if it's a little something, please give us that little thing, go back to the budget, we'll be grateful, he said. So much for the concern and respect of this government about employees in education, these two statements say everything and too much for me to comment on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38877	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. As far as I can tell, he's not in the O.R. Next speaker, colleague Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38878	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think first of all, Mr Vujovic that it is wrong for schools to close, you said today, and I think that this policy is devastating after Serbia's further development. All of what we had the chance to hear today did not convince us that this is what educational workers who want their wages to return to the old, not that they are going to meet in any way. The Serbian Progressive Party when it subtracts, it humiliates. Mr. Vujovicu, when you give, you humiliate. The salaries in public enterprises are...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38879	Mr. Bozovicu, I'm asking you not to do this. Don't look like some of your colleagues. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38880	... Salaries in public enterprises are unrealistically high, especially when it comes to losers who cost Serbia over a billion euros. We have a situation where in certain businesses couriers who have been paid over 60, or 80,000 dinars, secretaries over 100,000 dinars, we have educators who have an average salary of 36,000 dinars. Why is 7,000 dinars of one-time help insulting today every educational worker in the Republic of Serbia? Because it is not the biggest problem that they have a small salary, the biggest problem is that they are deprived of dignity, that an educator can't take his family out for lunch once a month, that they know that once in Serbia, it was too prestigious to be an educational worker, and today it's below every possible level. Will all the educators get one-time help, and that remains under question? You have left your discretion here to decide exactly who will receive, or Mr Verbic, along with you. Whether they will be the incomparable ones who will remain deprived, we will have the opportunity to see in the time ahead of us. You're saying that the representatives of all four trade unions in education said they were in agreement with these measures of yours, and how come none of them came forward? And it's not that I don't trust the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but it's a little weird for everyone to be quiet. You're saying that according to budget options, this one-time aid. Since budgets are possible to single out one billion or slightly more dinars for them, on the other hand there are 45 billion dinars, e.g. for “Srbiagas”? How can 45 times the budget go out to meet "Srbigas" more than it can do for educators? How is it possible for employees of "Serbia" to have one-time aid of 500 euros and for the government of the Republic of Serbia to give educational workers 55 euros? How is it possible that almost 10 times more aid is received by workers of "Srbigas", the company that is the biggest loser in the Republic of Serbia, whose director has paid or received more than a few tens of thousands of euros? Is that just society? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia really insist on that? How much is the average consumer basket in Serbia today? Sixty thousand dinars. What is the average salary of educators? Thirty-six thousand dinars. They can't live with dignity from their work. These are the people who raise our children, God bless mine soon. Yesterday we heard that you said, and that the whole government was behind that statement, that today in Serbia is living better, so I asked if it was some kind of joke. Do you know anyone who lives better today than a year ago? Or can anyone dare say that four years ago he lived worse than he did today? You can't see clearly what kind of misery educational workers live in today, you can't see it especially from the angle of DIPOS' villa. There's a lot of blurred sightings out there. Are these people small, Niko Petrovic, Sinishi Mali, Mr. Bajatovic, Mr. Aleksandr Obradovic, and many others who cost this country much? And you know it yourself. They are allowed to buy everything in this country under favourable conditions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38881	Mr. Bozovicu, do you think this is a topic right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38882	Here's another sentence and I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38883	You can't do that, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38884	Just one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38885	You insult people, you mention people who are not the subject of today's debate, I don't think that's right and that's not right for you, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38886	The people mentioned are those who live better in Serbia, while everyone else in Serbia lives badly, especially enlighteners.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38887	Yes, Mr Bozovic, you are among the people you mention as a national MP who lives much better than ordinary citizens of Serbia. I'm asking you not to insult people like that who can't defend themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38888	You have offended all the MPs, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38889	If I have offended the MPs because I say they live better than the people who are the subject of today... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38890	Surely no one in Serbia lives as Mr. Nikola Petrovic, godfather of Alexander... .. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38891	If I insult the Messengers of the people, then I apologize to them. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38892	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you know, we've been hearing about it all day, full of honesty, full of mouths looking after educators, doctors, cops, soldiers, etc., but when it comes from representatives of the current regime in the District Government in Vojvodina, I don't think the citizens can listen to this anymore. We who present facts in parliament very often return to the period between 2008-2012, even the period between 2000-2012 when we talk about corruption, about robbery privatisation, about the complete destruction of our economy. But as we talk about this period, the robbery is under way, in Vojvodina. The robbery is in progress, and we need to bring these facts to light. It wasn't just the D.S. that robbed the past, the robbery, and today. Bojan Pajtic is still Prime Minister in Vojvodina and we want to talk in an open way about what he has contributed to the chairman's contribution to pay and pensions more than this? What did he contribute? Did he attract any investment? Is the PDP strengthened because it's such a good manager whose door is open all over the world, we can't live more than those billions to live off his investments in the province. That man doesn't do anything. It hides behind opposition action and at one point represents power in the 1/3 territory of our country, and at the second moment it is presented as an opposition, a great martyr and fighter for our country, for our teachers, professors, etc. It's a shame. A million and a half euros were stolen and placed in the pockets of officials of the current regime in Vojvodina. It is placed in pockets based on the "Hatterland", a castle for children with special needs. Why don't you say it, gentlemen? Why don't we talk about godmothers, Elezovic and others who've been misbehaving for 15 years, pillaging around Indjia, in Old Pazova, in all the municipalities of the province? Why don't you talk about it? Don't lecture anyone. One thing I want to tell you from this increase that, just work enough and that one of it will live perfectly, will not slave the future generations, because it's not taken from the expensive loan, but from the real revenue and what our country has done in the last year, year and a half, and that's a big difference, which is what children who are five, six, or 10 years old today are not going to do when they start to return your gambling loans that you've been taking since 2008. You know, today you're not good with the IMF or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, the European Commission. You used to swear on the reports you received from the West. You're not doing well today, you're humiliating the same institutions today, and you're just not saying that the malts have no idea what they're talking about. But what's realistic, and Mr Vujovic knows, is that in 2011 and 2012, when you IMF drove out of our country, that you were brave enough and able to implement these reforms today would be an increase in wages and pensions by 20% or 30%. Why don't I want to reduce your guilt in any way? You didn't drive the IMF out of Serbia in 2012 and break all agreements with them because you love Serbia or you fight for workers, you fight for professors, doctors, etc. You've been evicted because of the 2012 elections, because no one who has any sense would allow you to owe six billion euros to our country just to win the election. How capable you are, how many people trust you and what results you've made and left behind, and that didn't help you win the election, but you lost, but you left big debts, and you just heard from the Prime Minister how much money we have to pay back. Only next year do we have to return over a billion and a half euros on interest, and what does that mean? That we don't even know how to touch the principal. That's what you've left for us, gentlemen. That's your score. The biggest drop in GDP was during your government that you left us in 2012. You destroyed all the public enterprises that were in the privatisation process. You've led them to such a level that after someone can buy one or two or three euros something that our grandparents raised and what we've fought for in the past. You're all over the place. There's one good example, and it only takes two seconds to throw a brick and break a window, whether it's on the apartment, home, business space. But it takes you half an hour to re-adjust it and to set up a new window on condition that you have to pay it and earn it. That's exactly what this situation we have in the country shows. For the last five years, you have destroyed Serbia since 2000, and you expect Serbia to rise in a year and a half or two days. That, gentlemen, is impossible, but it rises unlike your corrupt affairs that you led when you were filling your pockets. Today, Serbia certainly has all possible positive growth trends. We no longer have the astronomical deficit we had at the time of your government. Today, we raise salaries and pensions, as we will single out for more people who are socially endangered, in terms of how many countries are developing, how many countries are developing and how much we have earned and saved. You've been giving me nothing to say with a hand and a hat because you haven't given anything, which percentages more, but you've been giving it out of loans that will bring back generations over the next 20 years. We're not gonna act like that, and that's a big difference. The very relationship you have with teachers, with doctors, with teachers, with educators, is that as someone says something from your ranks as soon as it's finished, they pack up and leave this room. Let's talk about it. The previous speaker who made such insults, untrues, and who also pooped well in Strahinjic Ban, has an apartment on Dorcol, what does five or seven thousand dinars mean to him? It doesn't even mean 70,000 dinars to him. This is what Serbia has earned and this is what remains in our budget. If by any chance you were in power, today we would only have another six billion euros in debt because the province and local elections are approaching. For the sake of the election, we will not be in charge of a single euro. We have no idea, and unlike you, where every good news in Serbia steams your ears and you can't wait and you're racing who's going faster and better against the state to say, we have the support of a people who know that in a difficult situation came first because of your "Dulic", because of your "Djidar Djelic", because of your "Gilas" and others, and even the current Bojan Pajtic, knows that Serbia for whom responsibility has taken over Aleksandar Vucic is moving forward and is developing. One more thing to tell you, once the election is near, we'll see how you run when Mr. Pajtic loses legitimacy in the province government, when he no longer has anything to rob, when he no longer has room to pump money out of the budget to newly created NGOs that formed DS personnel. You will flee and it will be your complete sunflower on the political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38893	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38894	Thank you, Chairman. The Turnover Movement cannot support this law, this amendment to the Budget Law, which is still called budget rebalancing and no different. But no matter what it's called, this is something that is the real picture of the government of the RS. This is something that shows all the incompetence of the RS government, all its activities that led to the fact that in Serbia educational workers, health workers, police officers and people employed in the military, pensioners cannot live on their salaries, cannot put an end to the end. Today, we have a situation where the prime minister enters the Assembly with salva applause, with hysteria, he said, MPs of the ruling opposition, with 7,000 dinars that he gives to the people, as the emperors and kings did at the time. Well, it's not his money. Before that, he took away 60,000 dinars from educators this year through pay cuts, past work, and now...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38895	Mr. Veselinović, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38896	... Six thousand dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38897	Mr. Veselinović, please, when you speak, talk about the government's moves in a way and the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38898	... That's 10% of that amount. What's 10% of that amount? So 10% of the 60 taken away, that means 10% of the consumer basket. How much is a consumer basket in Serbia? That means three-and-a-half days of life for educators who, I wonder, ask you, and Minister Vujovic, how do you think they live for the rest of the 27 days of the month? How do you think they live the remaining 362 days a year? That they don't buy children shoes, don't buy them jeans, don't need kids of educators to have shoes, or jeans in two, three years as long as you're in power, just to eat, not have any debt from banks that you support. So, I ask you, Mr. Vujovicu, first, why don't you resign and you and the prime minister, who escaped from this room?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38899	Mr. Veselinović, this is a disgrace in the way that you, as a People's MP, speak in the National Assembly. I will not allow you in this way to address the peoples' MPs and the public of Serbia. (Janko Vesenović, from the city: What is it? Mr. Veselinović, I think you've finished your presentation. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38900	Mr. Chairman, Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. It is probably not the first time, and it will probably not be the last time that the dignity of the National Assembly degrades, humiliates Mr. Veselinovic, the most unscrupulous truths and lies here trying to draw public attention to himself, which definitely, because when there is no attention and trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then incidents, inventions and bribery must draw public attention to themselves. (Janko Vesenovic, from the place: Calm down, Babic.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38901	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away, I'll warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38902	Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, the president of the Serbian Government, came here, answered all the questions that were asked then and also in the earlier part of the session, went to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, said he would return and no one here escaped, and only some very brave, who wanted to say something before that, and then caught the door and fled from the National Assembly. On the other hand, there are double arches. Whenever there are double arches and double standards, something is wrong, because when education workers are paid 7,000 dinars and paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then there is no right to say that this is done by Aleksandar Vukic, the Prime Minister, but because when the salaries are reduced, when one part of the pensions have been reduced, when these people have taken the greatest burden of correcting mistakes from the past, e, then the same ones tell you – e, he took Alexander Vukic. No, we didn't take it. We did not take, as Bojan Pajtic takes from children with developmental disturbances. No, we didn't get it, from optic cables like Oliver Dulic did. No, we didn't take that from "Azotara," like Sasha Dragin did. No, we did not take, as the leaders of the City of Kings took, after the earthquake and those leaders, the democratic leaders of the City of Kings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38903	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38904	We didn't take it that way. That's what you did, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38905	Mr. Granny, it is my duty to give you an explanation. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure because I interrupted Mr. Veselinović. I did not want to let the Prime Minister, who gave his last atom of power in office of progress between Serbia and its citizens, in this way insults, especially those who, in such a way, think if he repeats the name of the Prime Minister several times that they are brave enough, and when the Prime Minister is in the O.R., ready to answer all their questions, flee from this hall. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38906	Thank you. I want to remind you, Mr. Veselinovic, that last time you abused a congregation pay phone to charge someone directly, i.e. I, this time and that time, got out of the O.R. Don't make me do it another time. Be, please, as is the term, parliamentary, I think it means enough. No one took anything from anyone. You are here looking for something that could best be called – why educational workers are not exempt from the reduction of wages and part of pensions, which started the programme of these reforms. Be more specific about what you're saying. It's a question that can be asked and that's the question I've already answered and we'll answer it again. Secondly, very important, since I answer after two or three MPs who have had questions, I want to answer this information briefly, some of them unfortunately are not in the O.R. First of all, I agree that the argument is "stupid," but I've tried today's opening statement to say what I think is important facts, and we can give additional information. It's going to be a day for discussion in detail and we can provide all the additional information you requested today and mentioned, but I have to say one thing. Some facts we gave, but there's one formal reason why we didn't put in preschool facilities. Because they are not financed from the Republic's budget. There may be a way to send the amendment a signal to local self - administrations to extend this measure to teachers, or educators, in preschool institutions. We have no legal right to order them. I think it's a legitimate question, I don't know if there's an answer, maybe there is, try. I'm not against it, I'm just saying that since it's funded by local self-government, we're only funding capital expenses there, I think maybe we can talk about it. Secondly, I want to tell Mr. Balsha Bozovic, who came out, that it's really not right for someone who's trying to do something, saying that by giving it, we're humiliating. Our intention is not to humiliate anyone, our intention is to help as much as we can. If that's how it works for you, that's another question, that's your impression. We don't humiliate anyone, we respect everyone, but at least we try not to deceive anyone, and those people who gave people an increase without a basis, who knew it couldn't be extended, who knew there would be a charge at the expense of all or all of Serbia's citizens, were aware of the deception. We don't humiliate anyone, but at least we don't deceive anyone. Finally, about the rebalancing. We can send you a formal definition of what is considered a rebalance and it exists in the Budgetary System Act. I'll tell you the essential definition. Bilans, i.e. The balance, as it is called here, is set out in the first Article of the 2015 Budget Act. Until you change the first member, and we don't need to change the first member, since, as the prime minister here pointed out, we have repeatedly mentioned in the media and in the Assembly Hall, we have no excess costs. We just need to redistribute some parts of the costs between individual categories because we didn't plan them well, but we don't exceed any of the essential categories of costs. That's why we're not talking about rebalancing. We're talking about changing that structure. Since it was explicitly written in Article 17 that one-time giving, whatever we call it, we don't call it in the law, we just say - it's a fee, because it was explicitly forbidden by Article 17, we allow this member to do so. The fact is that we put pressure on the time narrow before we agreed on a final sum both in government talks and in talks with the IMF and in talks with the unions. We therefore extend the definition of the people to whom this applies, we extend to the entire education sector, and therefore we change the amount from 6,000 to 7,000 dinars, in the best possible intention, as is the procedure in the Assembly, to hear proposals, to expand and therefore, here is Mrs Karavidic, I say that the proposal to involve extra-school institutions, i.e. pre-school institutions, is good, but we need to consider the possibility that the budgetary consistencys of this, since we do not finance them from the Republic budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38907	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38908	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Veselinović, I'm glad you took my advice and when you speak you stand up and stand still. I'm sorry that when the Prime Minister isn't in the O.R., you have extra courage, too, which you show. All you can remember is who told you to have in 2012... (National MP Janko Veselinovic throws out of town. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38909	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Why don't you remind him? I remind you, Mr. Veselinovic. I give you a warning, Mr. Veselinovic, have you really gone too far today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38910	As so many times as we talked, when you came and said – which you don't give these poor military pensioners an increase of 11.06%, this government, not the way you did it while you were leading this country until 2012, has managed from your own savings to enable the military pensioners you promised before the 2008 elections to increase your pensions, and then four years of silence and you didn't want to help them reach your rights, you're very hypocritically coming to tell me in 2015, and to the prime minister and this government who finds huge funds to keep your promise, today you're talking about educational workers. I know that for you at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, it's a little bit, because there are other sources with which you come up with additional funds, but we managed to save, unlike you, and not take expensive loans. I am sorry that the gentleman with the duck, excuse me, Mr Bozovic came out, because he mentioned shortly before the man who reduced the deficit of the city of Belgrade compared to your mayor who re-indebted the city of Belgrade, Mr Petrovic also mentioned, and only remember where your EMS was in 2012, that there was a failed company, and where today and how much money this same ESM is paying into the government budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The countries of Serbia. I will remind you, given that we are doing a review of military apartments, including the villa that your government gave DIPOS to management and which in a magical way went to private hands of individuals in the 2000-2012 period. You're trying to ramble this story and turn the public around whether someone's using the DIPOS villa or not, with lies, and we're going to go out very quickly with all those who at the time of the democratic government came to the cheap villas of the Ministry of Defense who had been given to DIPOS for management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38911	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38912	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I always find it interesting when I think of the predecessor who was the previous speaker on the list, trying to convince us here that white is not white and black is not black. And I'm always surprised over and over again by the creativity he's exhibiting in that venture. Unfortunately, what I don't like and what I can't get past is that I always feel the need to just have to show one negative characteristic, which is that it doesn't tell the truth. This is how a number of false things could be heard here today, including this part of the rebalancing process, so I am obliged to simply repeat for the citizens of Serbia, although the minister has said earlier today that this is not the budget rebalance. I will also remind you of the prime minister's words -- that this year will be the first year after much, much time when Serbia will not have budget rebalancing. And you know it well. But apparently, Mr. Chairman, that's what bothers them. Apparently, they feel bad about the situation. And you know what makes them feel bad? Because they base their policies on – the worse for Serbia, the better for them. But in practice, it turns out that the better Serbia, the worse for them and their parties. Mr. Minister, today in my presentation, I would use two key words that can illustrate this topic today, which is reality and responsibility. And it is these two words that make a fundamental difference between the ruling party, i.e. this, today's Government of the Republic of Serbia and the past in Serbia, or SNS and their parties, or parties in which the previous speaker was, in all order. What's the difference? As they exercised power, this topic, the increase in pensions and salaries, they approached exclusively for daily-political reasons. As they exercised power, completely unrealistic, unfounded, without any justification, exclusively for political purposes, they made decisions to raise pensions and salaries. Of course, it was always right before the elections, expecting an election victory, which was lagging behind, by the way. They didn't care what they produced with it. They didn't care what the consequences would be of the budget. They didn't care what effects this will have, how much increase will be public debt and GDP, how will this affect the fiscal deficit? They weren't interested. They took commercial loans, which the prime minister spoke of earlier, very unfavourable loans to pay their pensions and salaries. And it's like the culmination of irresponsibility. Unlike us, who have brought and prescribed a whole series of necessary measures, worked hard and thoroughly from the very beginning, stopped the decline in GDP, reduced the fiscal deficit, in one word – consolidated the state of public finances. So we've created all those necessary assumptions, all the conditions to provide from real and sustainable sources and to pay off these funds that we're discussing today. And this is the introduction to a further increase in pensions and wages, which we could hear about today. One more thing. I'm trying to be as brief as possible, and because of my colleagues, but I have to point out one more thing – don't explain to us that 7,000 dinars are not big money. And don't explain to us how workers and educational workers in Serbia today have difficulty living. We know that very well. We know better than you do. Because we, unlike you, are in contact with those citizens every day and in every place. And we know very well what the standard of living is and what the purchasing power of citizens is. One MP today, a former regime, which, unfortunately, has been said by some strange circumstances by the country's prime minister at some point, literally that they might be able to go to lunch for the money. I would remind him, in fact, I appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, that you remind him not to have lunch at "France" and "Maderi", like him. Maybe he said about him, as he did today at a press conference on this subject about 7,000 dinars, miserable and miserable. Maybe it's a misery for him. It is not a matter of misery for us and for ordinary citizens of Serbia. I'm ashamed to hear it from Mr. Zivkovic today. For all these reasons, I suggest that these are truly unfounded, but I would say hypocritical criticism, we reject and adopt these solutions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38913	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38914	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, since the beginning of the year, an unusually small deficit, which is 51 billion dinars, has been recorded for 100 billion dinars less than in the 2014 deficit, says the fiscal council of the state of Serbia, as never before, without a comment from the Prime Minister, without comment from the finance minister, who is indisputable, comments from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The fiscal council, one institution of importance for the management of public finances in Serbia, recognises the government of the Republic of Serbia. The total cost of employees in 2015 is 10.3% less than we planned. Yes, 9% of this reduction is the result of decisions we made in December of the month, but 1.3% is due to the reduction of the physical number of employees in the state administration. The government doesn't say, says the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council also believes that change is fully acceptable. What we all do know about the economy in Serbia is that 11% of Serbia's social gross product goes to staff expenditures. On this basis, the state of Serbia is one of the most expensive countries in Europe. In Macedonia, expenditure on employees is spent 6% of the social gross product, in new EU member states - 9%, in the EU - 10%. In 2015, or 2015, when we adopted it in 2014, we provided for expenditure on employees to be 8%. We, by the Budgetary System Act in 2015, i.e. for 2015 when we were bringing it in 2014, provided that for staff expenditures is 8%, 21.36% of total income, or 26.63% of total expenditures are expenditures for employees. The total debt in Serbia in 2015 is $1 billion and $200 million. Only $420 million is leaving to cover the deficit, everything else is a curvature difference. Does anyone remember when Serbia was in charge of $420m, and in earlier years since 2008, so practically by 2012, a large part of the debt went to public sector employees, i.e. for staff expenditures, as well as pensions. We don't do that today. When you talk about the growth of social gross product which is undeniable in 2015 is less than 2%. I'll remind you, for 2006, 2007, in 2008, but you're forgetting one thing, then you've had incomes that were crucial to the privatisation process. When you have that growth and that income, then you can expect the growth of the social gross product on that basis in relation to one to two. The situation is similar, of course, continued in the process of responsibilities. All this clearly says that the economic trend and the picture that is ruling in finance in the Serbian state is changing. When we talk about this article today, Article 1, we're actually saying that one part of the law that we passed in 2014, as far as budget decisions are concerned, we're changing. Mr. Minister is right, I think it should have been said at the beginning of the budget rebalancing theoretically means that in Article 1 of the budget decision is not the budget if you change Article 1. That's the point. After Article 1 comes Article 2. - division. If you don't change the economic classifications, you don't change the amounts, you don't have budget rebalances. Does anyone in the state of Serbia know when it was the last year that there was no budget rebalance. I fully agree with Mr. Minister's proposal, which says it will increase the current reserves by 1%. It's terribly important in conditions where you don't have budget rebalances. When you have budget rebalances, then the current reserve can be 1%. In conditions where you don't have budget rebalances, major financial challenges, then certainly the current reserve must be greater than 1%. The decision, as it is now imagined, without the amendments announced, costs the state a billion and 166 million dinars for 110,000 employees in the finance ministry. We heard, yes, the amendment will be adopted and it will concern 135 thousand employees at the finance ministry and the total amount will be higher. But that should certainly be said, the total amount for the Ministry of Finance is 3% of the social gross product. Costs for employees amounting to 95% of the finance ministry's budget, 3% of the social gross product as much as we pay this year for interest next year more. So if we weren't paying for 3% of the social gross product, we'd probably have a trunk to invest some of our assets in employee expenses. In elementary schools in Serbia today, we have a class of 558 thousand students, 261 thousand students in secondary schools. So we have about 820,000 students in total. About 7.26 students come to one of the employees. You have to admit that this is a very interesting data and a very interesting standard that speaks and changes the image that we are listening to continuously that the number of persons employed in education is extremely small. We listen every day to the number of students in the education declines, the number of employees is growing, but it seems to me a devastating fact that at 7.2 students come to an employee at the Ministry of Education in primary and secondary schools. It is also for much richer countries rather a large fiscal burden. The average salary in education in Croatia is six thousand kuna. The average salary in Croatia is 5,810 kuna, so 1.05. The average salary in Bosnia and Herzegovina in education is 810 converting marks. The average salary in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 850 converting marks or 0.95. The average salary of educational workers in Montenegro is 454 euros. The average salary in the Republic of Montenegro is 480 euros, which is 0.94. Practically, we're threatening the trend of the environment. Serbian average education salaries are not different from the average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. Looking at that same principle, the German model how it works. I came up with one very interesting data, the average salary in Germany is from 3.4 to 4.5 thousand euros as you observe the year. The average salary in the health sector is 2,200 euros, and you know how much is in education? Two thousand and three hundred euros, in the healthcare sector 3,000, account holders have 4,200 per cent. So the average salary in Germany is 0.65% in education compared to the average salary paid in Germany in one fiscal year. In addition, the state sector in Serbia today is quite expensive, 46.5% of total GDP goes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Macedonia 36.5%, countries entering the EU 41%. On average, the EU's GDP accounts for 49.3%. We must always be aware of the fact that the public sector in Serbia is too expensive today and that these fiscal issues in the form of expenditure for employees are actually fiscal givings of a large, real sector in serious financial problems. Of course we need to support this law today. Certainly, there is no need to continue and expand the discussion after the Prime Minister and Finance Minister, but I would remind all three ministers who today in this room practically that in 1976 there was no physical hall in the part of the town of Kragujevac in ten schools. Forty years later, in that part of Kragujevac, there lives 50,000 inhabitants of the town of Kragujevac, and today we have only two physical halls. If we continue this trend and this pace in 200 years, all children will be able to have a physical hall in primary schools. If there were children, but there was a government minister, there were MPs, there were mayors, there were state institutions that spent the budget, and they didn't achieve the results. If we're supposed to wait 200 years for a kid in 200 years when he's standing up, he's got a chance of seeing a gym in high school, then it's certainly not the point of politics. Mr. Minister, both the gymnasiums and the facilities and the different modes of functioning and education and health and the demopolisation of the entire public administration that will only enable the functioning of a different system of state administration is the future and therefore the undisputed great support you have in both the Serbian people and the parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38915	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38916	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly and I think that it has been violated today and now that we are discussing one important topic, the amendment of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015 and when we have here and was in the Hall and the Prime Minister of the Three Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Vujovic and Mr. Bratislav Gasic and Mr. Sasa Antic, and on the other hand, we have two fellow Members of the opposition. Which is why I am openly asking you, Mr. Becic, and you will pass on, what is Natasa Vukkovic, head of the DS parliamentary group, doing at this time? What is this more important subject than the subject paid for by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What is Dejan Nikolic, deputy head of the DS parliamentary group doing at the moment? What at this point...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38917	Please, Mr. Granny, please. Mr. Babic, please just don't mention Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38918	Mr Becicu, we were present when DS MPs read the names of members of the SNS parliamentary group and did not respond. That's why I think that right is given to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38919	Mr. Babic, you're absolutely right, but Mr. Nikolic is in the hospital right now with a sick child and I ask you not to mention his name, I ask you to. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38920	I'm sorry, and I won't use it, I didn't know about Mr. Nikolic, and I wish him good luck and a quick recovery. What's Dragan Sutanovac doing right now? What is more important and hindering work than the presence of this subject on the agenda of the National Assembly? What's Borko Stefanovic doing now? Where is Zoran Zivkovic? What is Vladimir Pavicevic's point of reference, so he's not in the O.R. and he doesn't do what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia paid him for? Where's Marko Djurisic? Where's Balsa Bozovic? What is more important now than the topic, which is 7,000 dinars for educators, given from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Where is Alexander Senic, where is Mrs Alexandra Jerkov? What's Ivan Jovanovic doing, where's Jovan Markovic? What about Dusan Petrovic and what about the other MPs, and I am glad that here are the two other MPs of the Democratic Party who have come to honor as much as this National Assembly and the topic on the agenda today. I won't ask you to vote on it, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38921	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I also thank you, your effect, we now have more MPs than ministers in the O.R. and that there is even the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mrs. Vukkovic, so we believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, and thank you for inviting MPs to enter the O.R. Do you want to vote on a voter's day to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. (Nataša Vučković, from the city: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Vukkovic, how can you call the Rules of Procedure when you enter the O.R. at the moment? (Nataša Vukkovic, from the place: I heard your comment... It can't be Mrs. Vuchkovic. Thank you. (Nataša Vučković, from town: You mentioned me... ) You want to point out the injuries of the Rules of Procedure because I mentioned that you have returned to the O.R., by an explanation to Mr. Babic that you should not be called because you have returned to the O.R. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38922	You've injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. It is not yours, nor my colleagues Babic to call the MPs, which is at the end of the assembly's term yesterday told our colleague, Mrs Jerkov, and I ask you to act in harmony and in the same way towards all MPs. You have no right to call the Messengers of the people. Dejan Nikolic is primarily objectively absent for a reason from the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38923	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. That's what I said. As I have many times allowed Ms. Jerkov to mention the MPs in the hall, I have never interrupted her, so for the same reason I did not interrupt Mr. Babic, and I only mentioned the sentence that Mr. Babic called the people's MPs who were not in the O.R. and who are now in the O.R. I didn't say anything else. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement to the Assembly. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38924	Thank you. The interpretation of whether this is a rebalancing or not is of course everyone's will. Rebalance is because you are supplementing a member, because it prevents you from spending the money beyond what the Budget Law provides. It's a rebalance. Except now I find it totally childish to talk – it's a great year without rebalancing. None happier than all of us that you have a budget surplus rebalance here, as it was in the Serbian Parliament in 2006. A brief memory and a lot of slander and lying is a feature of our folklore both in public and here and nothing. So we have a rebalancing and it's not a negative. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: "Lying is part of folklore". Vienna, are you listening to this? What's minus is that the government sent us a message that she couldn't count. On November 5th, you sent a proposal amounting to 6,000, on Tuesday for objective reasons there was no session, yesterday the amount was 7,000. How serious can anyone take any budget stories if you change the amount of one-time assistance that humiliates educators from 6,000 to 7,000 within four days? I know exactly what kind of difficulties the finance minister is in. So I'm not saying this because I don't think he can count, on the contrary. I'm talking about the facts we're all witnesses to. Four days ago, we don't know who this one-time help will be donated to, so we don't know the criteria. Today we have not a story of one-time assistance, but of the 2016 budget. And I understand that. It is called damage control, because Serbia's public is very reluctant to respond to the message - be happy, we congratulate you for getting 6,000 or 7,000, it is not yet known. It is all legitimate, but it is not legitimate to try to make the serious shortcomings that this proposal complements the Law have and our desire to improve and to clarify to the citizens of Serbia what it is, it is not legitimate to cover it and bury the famous sentences of the previous government. It is not ethical and I apologize in advance to my colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia, but it is necessary because of this kind of folklore communication, so ask the Minister of Education about what the problem was, so ask the minister of traffic what the problem was. We have no intention of doing anything wrong and of asking for any responsibility from the Socialist Party of Serbia, but it is distasteful to sit in the government of the coalition, except I personally think that it is an untasteful way in which in the coalition in public things are shown, as only half the hall applauds someone who thinks it should applaud, Prime Minister or Parliament, that is all choice, it doesn't matter. It is distasteful to insist that the Democratic Party was alone in the government from 2008 to 2012, but still your choice. That nothing, absolutely does not help the fact that we have budget rebalances today on the agenda with demeaning sum and with the demand of politicians to be happy. The minister is absolutely right about pre-school institutions, but we ministers cannot, by any means, allow pre-school institutions to get this same help. The lack of respect and respect for dialogue in this institution is what people see, the lack of acceptance that everyone has the right to differ in what people see, and what they won't feel in their standard is any improvement and it won't be until the end of this year, not until the end of 2016. That's our common problem. But our common problem cannot be solved by using the disqualification language, burying techniques, and accusing others of the responsibility of this government for nearly four years instead of talking about budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38925	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38926	Thank you, Chairman. You know, we've heard a lot of things here today, but what you did to Vujovic is one really scary piece of information, which is that, I think, in 2011, we in the administration as a state increased 10% of the salary, and let's just say, enlighten only 3%. It's the best indicator of how someone thought of our educators, since today we have salves of mourning on their hard lives. He is difficult, it's a scary hard life, but thanks to you, because you ruined their every future and normal work. You know, today we're listening here and we're criticizing that people in agencies like, say, so you mentioned the Anti-Corruption Agency, they have high wages. I agree, but a bunch of these agencies are your inventions, and when they get paid by all these independent bodies, so first you jump in here to defend their incomes. Remember what was for the Protector of the Citizens when someone mentioned the receipts to him. The first one you jumped to defend so much income. Today you are criticizing this authority because it is trying to give educators a salary, or one-time assistance, as it is called. I just can't believe what hypocrisy it is. You who blew up the administration until the explosion and owed the country at an abnormal rate of 7.5%, you're telling us today that this is charity. This isn't charity, this is something we've earned. It can't be charity when you give it to someone when you earn something. Grace is what you've done, you've hired the state to buy votes and educators and people in health care, etc. You've ruined us all by borrowing this. That's why we're returning it today. Someone laughed here and said, "Oh, dear, your business growth is 0.9%." Well, how big was he at your place? Well, 0.9% means that we've produced something, some new value is created, we're exporting something somewhere, something's working, someone's getting paid, some unemployment's been reduced somewhere. That was never the case with you. We've had a scary negative trend. We've experienced in your time that the monopoly companies of the state are at a loss. That never happened. We had Elektroprivreda in a minus, "Serbishum", "Lutria" in a minus. It's the only lottery in the world, I think, that was down. Now you're telling someone how bad this is, how charity this is. What did you give the educators? We saw the schools we had. Our kids didn't sit on our slippers right now. Now we want to rebuild schools because we want to invest in education. We want that educator to be respected. We want the teacher to be a person, that his children admire him, and not like we had in your time, really one degradation of the education where the student, the son of some rich tycoon, could come and slap the professor and we had it. I'm sorry. There's got to be respect for the professor here. Maybe it's retrograde. You know, I, my teacher and teacher, when he looks at me, I shouldn't even write, and today children treat those educators, thanks to that degradation that you've introduced, it's really terrible. Now, we want to change that system. The teacher must be your second parent and we must respect these people. You're saying charity is, I don't know, university professors getting paid. Well, we want to show these people some respect, which we're increasing them by 2,000, how much they're going to pay, or receive. You often criticize various degrees today, so I can criticise that, but all those colleges in private, which I would call, I'm sorry, gygi bau colleges, so that's what you've been giving them the license. Well, you're the one who introduced the degradation into our high school, because you could go to some college for the afternoon and end it in, I don't know, a year, two. It's your product. It's not the product of the current government. We're finally in the middle of something. Now it can be objectively some amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, if nothing, the criteria of what a college is, which in your day was not so. I really ask you, when you say it, it's a little bit of what someone gave, so get in your pocket for a little while, so give it to me. After reading the amazing comments on the portals last night, he says, "Ooh, 250 dinars is someone's increased pension, so that's, say, for one round of applause with contributions. You didn't even give it to those people. These people who will receive those 250 dinars more, I'm talking about pensioners, they haven't had any increase, they haven't been taken at all, but there's one amazing thing to say here, and that's that you left 61% of the pensioners in this country receiving under 25,000 dinars and you're not ashamed to be preaching to someone today. It's your legacy. We're paying out pensions from real resources today because we don't have pension funds because you robbed them because you ruined them because you destroyed them. We're from real sources today trying to raise our economy as much as we can, but we're not going to owe the country, we're not going to take us out of power. If the people don't like it, let them vote in the elections against us, but to owe the state, to destroy the country like you did, we won't do it. We don't have the power to be so sweet. I'm sorry, if you think someone's only taking care of their ratings, which prime minister would cut someone's pension? Well, that's an extremely unpopular move. Why didn't you just raise your pensions from unreal sources by borrowing us to buy voter favors? Now, we don't want to do it, at a cost and fall from power, but I'm sorry, we want a healthy country, on sound grounds and sound finances. So of course I support something like this, because this is an indication that somewhere we've managed to get something out of something because we've earned it, unlike you who haven't earned anything at all, absolutely nothing. I remember your minister at the time, when he was making statements in the paper, it was about Mr Djelic, who said once, I remember it well, he says – we took a fantastic loan, we'll have to cover our salaries and pensions. That was your economic logic, and thank God it's never going to happen again. We really want this country to move forward. Please, people, I know it's hard for them, but unlike you, I'm among the people. People aren't satisfied with this, they're not, because this is really something that can't cover their basic needs, but the people understand, they're not stupid or stupid. He realizes where we are and realizes that this is still someone's effort and that we've earned this thing, and we haven't hired the state. That's what's in charge. I ask you to explain to us, exactly what I asked you – how did you manage to bring our public enterprises, or monopoly companies, to minus? That's all an economic genius can do, no one else. Why, for example, did you spend 300, 400 million euros a year on restructuring companies? Well, maybe they could have been both salaries and pensions so I wouldn't talk about corruption that was creepy proportions. I'm sorry, no one of our ministers has ever thought of getting a grant from the state to make vineyards, and that's what some of your people did. I ask these people here, my colleagues from the SNS, to be proud to vote today for something that shows that the country has moved forward, and gentlemen across the street I can only say that jealousy is not a healthy thing. I know how hard it is when you don't have a score, and you're trying to show that someone who has a score can't work well. It's going very hard, and I think the people don't get it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38927	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38928	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, I am pleased to see you more often here in this room, which speaks of your dedicated work and your commitment to the work you're doing. Dear People's MPs, today we are discussing the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, with only one member of 17, with the intention of paying one-time cash aid of 7,000 dinars to primary schools, secondary schools and higher education. Dear People's MPs, this is good news for all educational workers, and I will explain why it is until the end of its discussion. If education and education are the primary resource of society in conditions of transition, and they really are, then it can certainly contribute to the modernisation of Serbia only if conditions are created for its optimal functioning. That is why reforms in the education system are a key point, I would say the imperative of the Serbian Modernisation Project, which was promoted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, in an exposé during the 27 April elections of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's not forget, the exposés of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic is the most comprehensive, most concrete, most transparent and large 52 densely typed sides and the best. I joined these five elements today and the sixth -- the most realised in a year and a half of all 75 previous exposés by the Serbian government since the time of Serbian Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic's first prime minister in 1805. Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, knowledge, i.e. The education and education of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a presumption of democracy. They strengthen it, not knowledge suits dictatorships. Education and education are among those that have experienced the greatest disturbances in the transition under the former regime, so from one European prestigious level of education and education we have sunk under the former regime's party into the biggest crisis in the entire national history of education and pedagogical ideas. Our experts in the history of education and pedagogical ideas also gave that assessment. Many European and world governments have given education and education a very important place in their programmes, and that is good. And our Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has given education and education a significant place in the exposé. Just, ladies and gentlemen, here he is with me, to remind you, of education and education he has devoted five pages of text, from 32nd to 37th. This is more than half of the total exposure of some previous presidents to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and of some not half but even whole exposures. Check it out. It's available in the archives. On page 32, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic also said, quote: "This government will reform the education system. Knowledge is the basis of which we are starting to build our common house, our Serbia," the quote concluded. On page 13, speaking of fiscal consolidation, the Prime Minister said, I quote: "A reduction in public sector wages by 10%, and wages will continue to grow according to fiscal rules since 2015," the quote concluded. I apologize, Ministers and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read this one more time because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia: "A reduction in public sector wages by 10%, and wages will continue to grow according to fiscal rules", I underline, "since 2015", finished the quote. Salaries will grow normally with fiscal rules, not like before without fiscal rules, and as written, the opposition gentlemen, in the exposé, so here you see today, we have also come true since 2015. That's how the Government of the Republic of Serbia does it, that's how the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia does it and that's how the SNS does it. Gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, by system written and achieved in this programme of government that we should keep as a sacred book, all of us, at least we Members of the People. The prime minister when he spoke these words in an exposé, as if he had in mind Erasmus Rotterdamski, who said, quote: "The greatest hope of each country lies in the proper schooling of youth," finished the quote. A teacher's call, you'll agree with me, is one of the oldest calls he has in the time before the school's institution, as an institution. Every society, for this honorable invitation, chose the people in whom they had the most trust and were the most valued in society. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia well know that from teachers, its professional quality, its work style depended heavily on whether it will reach the level of teaching skills adequately implemented in practice and there is no dilemma. That's why they always have understanding for every help, even if one time, when the government gives it, because it wants to draw attention to the importance of a teacher's call. Let me quote to you, an ancient Greek philosopher, Plato, who at the time stressed the importance of a teacher's call, and our Government for 2016 recognized it extremely well. I quote: "The state will not be in harm's way, if the shoemaker has no idea about his trade, only the Athenians will be badly shoeed, but if teachers misbehave children, future generations will be ignorant who will destroy the country," the quote concluded. Who ruined our country by some citizens' evaluations and what it was like to be led by the time it came to the Greek script. I note that in the government's election, I have said one sentence, quoting myself, is not convenient, "if this government stops the collapse of the Greek script, it should give it the Nobel Prize," the quote concluded. That's why the teacher's job is one of the noblest calls. Teaching and raising children is a great obligation that requires a lot of love, sacrifice, effort, and denial. The overall economic situation in which we were brought by the party of the former regime and overcoming this state of reform was felt by all citizens and educators, but love of invitation, love of children and understanding of the state of economic and financial and the state in general overcame these problems. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has firmly indicated that in 2016. The year to be in the sign of enlightenment, i.e. education and education, not only in terms of raising salaries to teachers, but also in terms of the material equipment of our schools and the transformation of the entire system of education and education on new modern grounds. What are these new modern bases? The basis of which will be the teacher who intercedes between the rapidly developed world and the students who are on their way into the world. Let me quote one sentence, gentlemen chairman. The great philosopher Leibnic spoke of the importance of education and education for the future. I quote in one sentence: "Give us education and education and we will change the character of Europe in a shorter time than it is in a century," finished the quote. Therefore, the 2015 Bill on Budget Supplements to grant education workers a one-time aid of 7,000 dinars is a token of the thanks of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the educational workers for their understanding that they have shown in the consolidation of our finances, i.e. to the fixation of the difficult economic situation in the country in which we were brought by the former regime's party, and not by this Government that manages the situation. This one-time payoff to educators is a sign that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, taking care of overall financial and economic relations, will take account of education workers who will be the largest increase in the public sector in the coming year 2016. That is also said in the Prime Minister's exposé and that obligation is fulfilled. That's what educators will know that they appreciate, 90 and five percent of the educators. That minority will never want it or won't want it. It will motivate our teachers, it is not true that they will not, on a better and better quality professional and pedagogical training that is not at an enviable level. There is no quality teacher without quality professional-pedagogical training. This training should be well-translated and extract the training of teachers from the deep and dangerous crisis, volunteering, general chaos, improvisation, commercialisation, waste of funds and times brought by the party of the former regime. When training teachers should give up the long-term practice of implementing all accredited programmes by NGOs until they receive a pedagogical transformation. I'm undermining this -- it's what our parents are looking for. What is the important personality of teachers in education and education is best shown by the words that I will now say: "The next 50 years will not be, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the important things we drive cars, what kind of house we live in, how much money we have in the bank or what kind of clothes we wear. The world can at least be a little better if teachers play that important role that society has entrusted them with. “ The well - known Dostoyevsky said: “Only a constantly perfected teacher can be able to truly teach and train, ” finished the quote. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia announced that 2016 will be held. For years, among other things, to be in the sign of education and health care, I have the feeling that she followed the instruction of Adam Smith, who said, quote: "Good education is the most noble state economy," finished the quote. In other words, good education depends primarily on teachers. So believe it or not, but it's true, teachers hold in their hands the future of the world. Also, Babef said, I quote, "In future society, the main figure will be the teacher, not the general," finished the quote. The President-in-Office, even the European Commission in the Council of the European Parliament, said in 3.8.2007 that, I quote – the teaching profession is becoming more complex, its demands are growing, the environment in which it works is increasingly diverse, the quote is completed. Knowing this, this Government of the Republic of Serbia in the 2016 budget decided to go that way, normally under the conditions of the economic and financial situation in which we are located, which has led us to the party of the former regime. What is most important, let us, that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has, from the collapse of the financial collapse in which we were brought by the party of the former regime, interrupted this trend under the leadership of Alexander Vukic and this government and paved the way for a better path that no one can stop, fortunately for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the future of our children, and I hope that stability is not only economic but the overall stability of our country. Finally, on behalf of the largest number of educators, I thank the government of the Republic of Serbia for recognising that there is no economically stable Serbia without education. Educational workers give full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia to persist, to reform for the future of our children and countries in general until the end. I also call on you gentlemen from a weak opposition, from your weak opposition benches, because I see that there are only four of you, that you are voting, even if four of you for this law, because even in this way you will at least demonstrate that you are for the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is so warmly advocated and implemented by the Prime Minister of Serbia and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the largest number of MPs in this National Assembly and the largest almost plebiscite number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38929	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Let Goran Mladenov prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot has already been said about this law. There were a lot of emotions, though I don't think there was a need for that, because obviously we have one law that benefits above all educational workers, but what awaits us will also mean in favour of some other sectors in public services. All in all, we have a number of facts that confirm that the government has done quite well in the past year. She was doing well enough, given that the deficit was primarily able to fall from close to 7% to about 4.5%, that she would be able to pay off and lag behind military pensioners and that the deficit creates space so that today we can talk about this one-time assistance, but also generally about increasing wages and educators, and health workers, both the police and the military. It's all very positive and there's no reason for us to cut these results lightly and not send a positive picture from this session of the Assembly to the Serbian citizens and let them know that they can expect government moves in the future that will make it easier for them to have a social situation that is not easy either way. So this law that we have today is only the first phase in solving and improving the material position of educators, those 7,000 dinars that will be singled out to educators, but then we have a second phase, which is an increase of 4% on the salary that is significantly more significant, because it means that these increases will be constant both in 2016 and 2017. If there is an opportunity, it will be bigger at that age, if the government continues to do as it pleases, because I am convinced that from what is said today it intends. We have one phase, and that's the phase in which we need to introduce paid classes into the field of education. In that sense, we will be able to even up, correct the mistakes we had in the previous period, and that this situation in terms of wages is significantly improved both in education and in some other sectors. Another commendation for the government, something that seems to me that we are all missing, that we accepted an arrangement with the IMF in 2015, we have 5% of the public sector officials fired. Some 25,000 people stayed in their jobs because the government was very thriftful and managed to secure more income than everyone expected. It's something that has to give optimism. Are we satisfied with this increase, whether educators, citizens are satisfied that they are not. I don't think anyone who works in the public sector, or at least 90% of them is satisfied with their salaries, but it's high time we stopped thinking about what kind of pay we'd like to have, but to start thinking about how much pay this weak economy of ours can be for public sector employees to provide. So, from one policy, we move on to the policy of opportunity and that's what's very good about this law. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where we have a very weak economy, a very weak real sector, this is the result of decade-long delusions, ignorance, even an intellectual laziness that has led us to a situation that is constantly losing jobs year after year in the real sector, that the number of people and the number of businesses paying taxes in the budget are becoming smaller and smaller from year to year, and this has led us to a situation that today we have very few employees in the real sector, in the economy, and a large number of public sector employees. This relationship is 1:2 and that is to be said, it has not yet been able to level with the EU where this ratio is 1:5. It's a lot taller. This is essentially one of the biggest reasons why public sector wages are so low. The second reason is relatively small GDP. We have failed in these last ten years of transition to increase that GDP. We have come into a situation where our economic growth from year to year is small, or one year is increasing, the other is shrinking, and all of this brings us into a situation where we have very small budget inflows and opportunities to fill the budget to a serious extent, leaving us even more space for wages. However, it should be said that 1% of economic growth is not for underestimation at all, not because it should be compared with other countries in the environment, but because almost all the countries that went this way, through fiscal consolidation, were in the first year, and we were only in the first year in the implementation of the fiscal consolidation programme, as you know by 2017 should have ended, all of them went into recession, all of them had a negative economic growth. So this government's success is much bigger than it looks at first sight. There was no possibility of not going with fiscal consolidation. With a public debt exceeding 70%, which is likely to be close to 75% at the end of this year, we were in a position to enter a public debt crisis. There were inevitable savings the way the government defined that these savings were implemented, and these laws that were before us show that it was primarily taken care of the employees, that those projections that started a year ago were that they needed to go with a salary increase of 15 to 20% were not necessary and were not realistic, because the government recognized other opportunities, such as the reduction of wages in our case, unlike other countries, was only 10%. A good part of these funds is being returned, which is how positive and all that is positive should continue during a previous period, first and foremost to fight for much greater economic growth, which will mean a much better standard in the years ahead. But to be honest, nothing will be able to end overnight. There are years of serious work ahead of us, primarily serious investment both from private and state funds, and all of which will have to happen without increasing tax revenues, if possible first and foremost without increasing VAT because this would lower the potential of economic growth and possibly the possibility of increasing wages in some future period. So I'm sure all of us MPs, regardless of the kind of political dialogue that's been emotional at one point, basically we support these measures. It's a good thing that part of the opposition will vote for these laws. To the government that, in future, by its laws, by its measures, it is justified by the state of business. The desire exists, the successes are obvious. There is no reason not to be optimistic in some future period and to not promise citizens, above all, to public service employees and perhaps to increase their wages more seriously, but only with a more serious fiscal consolidation in 2016. I think 2017 is the year in which the results of all these measures will be felt. That is why I call on you, of course, to support this law and to give government support in the coming period to all the measures that mean through fiscal consolidation and a more realistic framework for Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38931	The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic. Get Nevenka Milosevic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidents, Honorable Ministers, Proposal for a Law supplementing the 2015 Budget Act, which is now in front of us, which will be complemented by the amendment, given that the president of our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment, provides for the payment of a one-time payment of seven thousand dinars employed in primary, medium, higher and higher education, as well as those employed in institutions of student and student standards. This one-time payment is essentially an attempt by the government and parliament to ease the imbalances in salaries that exist between those employed in education and salaries employed in other portfolios on the one hand, which is certainly the product of the inherited situation from previous years and, on the other hand, one expression of respect and attention, primarily prime ministers, ministers, the entire government and legislative authorities who want to meet the needs of educational workers. When we say an attempt by the government and parliament to ease the rebalancing of the salaries employed in the education, it is a fact that, apparently, it is the fact that representatives in the government, the representatives in parliament do not want us to remain silent. It's a fact that there's no reason to close our eyes at all, but also the fact that it represents an inheritance from earlier years, and as such a fact, it doesn't need to be ignored for any moment. In fact, it is a matter of years ago that the ministers in governments where the SNS did not have a share were able to vote higher salaries for their employees in their portfolios, so for example, within the framework of the justice portfolio, the minister of justice managed to elect higher salaries and earnings for the employees, prosecutors and judges compared to teachers and teachers who have the same degree of expertise. A similar case is found in the Ministry of Health where the health minister managed to elect higher salaries for doctors and medical staff compared to those employed in the education of professors, teachers, teachers, regardless of the same degree of expertise. This is a great injustice that has been done to educators and as such has been done without the participation of the SNS and has been done without the interference of SNS MPs who could decide or wonder about anything at that time. For example, in Serbia, we have thousands, let's say, a nurse who has a fourth degree professional shift today almost has the same salary as a teacher, or teacher who has completed the seventh degree of professional training. Also, a flagrant example of these imbalances is found in public enterprises, so one employed electrician in an electricity distribution in Serbia has up to 20,000 dinars more than a teacher, or teacher who has a seventh degree of professional training. So, one employed in a public enterprise that has a third degree of professional training has a higher income than the one employed in education, a teacher, or teacher. I repeat, these are all the obvious facts that we do not want to be silent about, that we do not want to close our eyes to, but these are all problems, conditions and facts that have been inherited from earlier periods, I repeat again, in which the SNS has no participation, but which will work in perspective and future to solve them. On the other hand, we said that this is an expression of one respect and one attention to educational workers, taking into account, first of all, the ambience in which the decision is made, i.e. the addition of the Budget Law, and predicting a one-time payment to those employed in the education of seven thousand dinars. Here's why. If we have in mind that employed in the administration and pensioners have agreed to and accepted a reduction in wages and pensions in terms of solidarity and support for reforms that are inevitable to be implemented in Serbia in order to ensure that the RS budget is stabilised for a short period of time, i.e. to provide conditions for economic growth, i.e. economic development in the longer term, then it is an act of one-time payment of seven thousand dinars, even if it was even seven thousand dinars of real precedent and exceptional expression of attention and respect for those employed in education. On the other hand, there is the danger that such an act may be a source of dissatisfaction and contempt by others employed in the administration, i.e. pensioners, to whom these seven thousand dinars would mean a lot too. I'd only list some of the examples that exist. Unfortunately, there are certain local self-governments in Serbia whose employed salaries and earnings are late for several months. These people would certainly make this one-time compensation a lot. We also have a lot of cases in Serbia that workers and employees of preschools and kindergartens that are not covered by this change would also be very welcome to receive a one-time payment of seven thousand dinars, especially considering that we have a winter period, that the costs are now the largest and that students are preparing for schools, preparing winters, preparing heat trees, etc. This one-time payment would certainly be very welcome to these groups, and it would mean a lot. In view of the unemployment rate as another argument, which again speaks of the expression of respect for those employed in education, given the unemployment rate in our society which is the result of different factors, and above all poor and unfair privatisations, not to say thieves and robbers so that no one would find himself offended or give God to the injured, this cash compensation would also mean a lot to the employed, i.e. workers who were left unsent in the electronics industry “Nish”, whom there are a few tens of thousands, then the employees who were left out of work at the factory “Neven” Leskovac. Also, these seven thousand dinars could especially mean to the workers of Jumka and Simka in Vranj who work hard in their plants, and given the period in which these seven thousand dinars are located, they would be very welcome. If all of this is added to the summation effect, which will be made out of this payment, which means that this one-time payment of about seven thousand dinars amounts to about 140,000 employees in education, and if we have in mind that this is a budget of 1.7 billion dinars, then we can figure out 14 million euros, or 15 million euros, we could also make with these funds maybe 14.15 factories from the foundation, or find 14,15 businessmen that we could give these subsidies of one million euros, which would employ 100 to 150 workers. So that the effect of priority employment would be 1500 to 2000 workers, plus the effects of their salaries, plus exports, plus taxes on earnings, which are achieved in the economy certainly, priority, but again the government and parliament, representatives of the executive and legislative authorities, decided to target these funds to educational employees, so as not to mitigate injustice. With these funds, we could shine down a dozen elementary schools and health homes to reconstruct. We saw, the other day the Prime Minister was showing pictures and today we were looking here at Parliament, in what state our school and health systems are. Also, many children, unfortunately, in Serbia in primary and secondary schools do not have physical halls for uninterrupted physical activity. With these funds, we were certainly able to access the construction of 25 to 30 physical halls. However, the government, parliament, is determined to target these funds to educational workers, in order to affect the mitigation of imbalances, so this is for every commendation and every recognition. However, at the end of the day, these discussions can be found, and I hope that we will all agree that this represents a small increase for educational workers, but it represents a large and significant expenditure on the budget. It is therefore necessary for the minister to enlighten with his expert team, together with union representatives, trade union organisations and trade unions, access to a serious, comprehensive analysis in order to find a sustainable and comprehensive solution within the longer term. Here we count on the support, first of all, of Ms. Kori Udovici, who will make payroll classes and, as far as possible, try to reduce this difference, and that educational workers themselves within their union organisations and associations are trying to find ways to reduce their costs and within the framework of the existing appraisal of the release of funds to increase their earnings. I will list only one example, in all of Serbia there are a number of schools that are rural type, where there are a few students, where one teacher teaches, or there are a few teachers who teach for no more than a dozen students. The transport, transport and transport of children would certainly be less cost to the Ministry of Education than to that school, maintenance of buildings, heating, electricity, profit payments to educators, and that is one of the ways that savings could be made within this ministry. This should be done by the Ministry of Relations with the Minister, together with its expert team on relations with trade union associations, with trade union organisations, plus costs in terms of spending on various ballrooms, seminars, would mean the release of money under the position, i.e. by the Ministry of Education and the space for the increase in salaries of employees in education. This is an active process that takes time and, I repeat, in which all the maximum efforts must be made, all together to try and, above all, the minister with his professional team to find room for certain savings, especially union managements, who know best where to make savings, and not that union management every time they're unhappy with warning and threatening strikes, going out on the streets, that they're physically accounting with the minister of education, which I think is kind of embarrassing themselves and the profession they belong to, and I don't think that this should happen again in the perspective. Therefore, the SNS will vote in favour of this supplement of the 2015 Budget Law, in hopes of finding a sustainable solution to joint work, a joint effort, that both teachers and educators, teachers and teachers will be satisfied with their status, their earnings, because this is very important because we have entrusted them with our children to study and educate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38933	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's very important that we point out a few things and what it is we've done, how we've done, and why many people are trying to bring down and what's wrong with us, why we're always unhappy. Unfortunately, in our society and each and every one of us, there seems to be a desire to always, at all costs, look and think that we deserve more without even trying to change ourselves and offer more. Being unhappy is always easy, criticizing even easier, watching from the side, from a safe distance to throw away there is nothing easier. The Great Roosevelt, in time, said that it wasn't critics who deserved recognition, that it wasn't critics who deserved a reward, but whose face was deadened with both dirt and blood and sweat, those who were in the arena, who every day struggled for their goals, for a different and better future, who fell, but also rise, who sinned, but who correct their mistakes, and who fight and who don't allow merriment and boredom to break their energy and desire to make society better. You and such men deserve not only the trust of the people, they deserve to be heard, but not those who sit and never tell you what it is you have to do, except what they say, should be better. I deliberately asked this question because I tried to hear one single argument in the last 24 hours and the professional public and the general public. I listened to all the political parties in Serbia, I listened to all the experts. I have to say that experts reacted quite correctly, in a fairly correct way and assessed the government's measures, but everything else I heard was a language of insult and in the most primitive way is an attempt to score political points. And it's miserable and offensive if you increase four plus one-time assistance and support, it's 5%, it's miserable and offensive, and their statements when the price of electricity is up 7% which were that it's a disaster for the home budget, watch out, the price of only one item, important, but only one. A disaster for Serbian budgets, that Serbian households will be destroyed, that everything will be destroyed because no one can pay for it. Wait, how's 5%, and for all of us, you get 5% more, nothing, and 7% is a disaster? What kind of arches are they to you? Who are you telling? Have we become such that everything we can present and good, we must present to the bad? So, everything that's being said here today, it's our attempt to, even though we don't have any obligation to make people we find hard to live for, and many others are having a hard time living, we've found a way out of what we've earned to give them seven thousand dinars for 141,000 people. Today is the main topic - hey, don't do that, so give them 100,000, 50,000. No, we haven't. We haven't earned it. It's a simple reason, we haven't earned it. Who are those who earned it and how did they earn it? Now you'll hear examples. To court the people in Belgrade, they paid three months each for three or four thousand dinars to pensioners. Today we take pensioners five and six grand just to get it back. Because it's been paid out of a interest loan of over 7%. It wasn't paid because the city earned it, because the state earned it, and that's why I'm so passionately reacting. I want people to know, what we pay, it's healthy, it's clean our money, it's not loans, it's not gonna pay back. It is a little, but it's ours, not someone else's. I know people can usually say -- hey, look, how much do we have in our pocket? Not enough, a little more than last year at this time. That's progress, kid, but we're at the start of the program. It's only at the end of the program that we'll be able to make those decisions freely, but that's what we did. Our public finances today, according to the IMF, are purest and best. I know people will say - what do I care, I don't know anything about it. And I'll say-- think about it, people, because when our public finances aren't clean, when our public finances aren't good, then this country just goes to waste. They're clean and they're good today. I've talked about it in both political parties. Look at the political parties, what their public finances reports are, and you will see unequivocally... It seems to me that Borko Stefanovic, I apologize. So it's our job, and it's our job to try to get our people, to explain to the people that there's no bread on the cake and there's no overnight huge progress, and this is overnight safe and stable progress. People say for 15 years we've been trying to reform public enterprises. That's what they talk about all the time. For the first time, the IMF said there were positive shifts. It's not great, but for those who talked nonsense today about how "Srbigas" I don't know how much he owed, it's not "Srbijagas", Bajatovic is responsible for what he paid for, and he couldn't pay for it. How's he gonna get it back? I don't know, and I don't care, but "Srbigas" pays for the first time all its current obligations in full scope, for the first time in its history. So, for the first time, we're not late for the dinars and everything in accordance with the Protocol that we have signed with the Russians, for the first time in our history. In doing so, don't forget, dear friends, we're paying back our debts. At the end of the year, we will accept two-thirds of the debt to Gazprom, namely NIS, as a public debt and at least one-quarter of that debt to pay in cash. These are the economic-political dead we inherited from the past. There's no new debt. In order for you to understand, 496m euros were owed to Gasprom, or NIS. We succeeded in heavy negotiations to reduce it to 303m euros. We paid a little something, and the rest of us made a deal. This is a common debt both for Petrochemy and for "Serbiyugas" towards the Russians. We've brought it down to 303 million. We will accept most of the public debt and will immediately pay 50m euros. So, out of that debt they've made since 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, we'll almost pay it back, that the generations that come after us, that such economic dead people don't surface. And when we say -- do you know what is for our country 100, 200 or 300m euros, and it just comes in, and they don't care at all. Military pensioners. And what did these experts leave us with a debt to military pensioners of about 300m euros? We're trying to bring it down to 190, to 160m euros, to pay off military pensioners. Well, from where? And that's what we're going to pay off and not increase the dramatic deficit and not endanger the stability of our public finances. Why are we doing all this? Because it's condicio son qua non, it's a condition without which you cannot enter into reform. I received several Italian representatives today. A new factory in Sremska Mitrovica opened today. They didn't ask for subsidies either, but people were sure that since we improved our position on the "Duing Business List", they can invest and have the security of investment in our country. A new hundred people have been employed in Sremska Mitrovica. That's what we're gonna do every day. We're going to reduce that kind of unemployment, and that's going to solve all these other problems. I'll just tell Mladenov about the union. The unions were very correct, the unions of education. They understood everything. Let go of some organization that's controlled by some political party. I was thrilled, I think it's from the Union union that woman, she said – thank you for finally and those schools to fix, because that doesn't just mean to the students, that means to us. What is no longer in Turkish prisons, the kind of toilets we have at Veljko Vlahovic's school in Kursumlia and hundreds of schools around our country. Well, by the summer next year, we'll turn all schools around, all schools to clean up, and every toilet will be arranged and clean for our children. And not that, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, not out of credit, nothing out of credit, but out of our budget. Do you know when we could see that Slovenia had succeeded? When the first part of Zagreb-Ljubljana highway was financed from the budget, not from the loan. That's how we're gonna watch. We don't have the highways yet, and it's not out of credit, but when we make these 10km to the left, it's a Serbian house, our money, it's not a loan. But when we can make a 50km share without a loan, then know that we did it. And that's why we're doing this. It's awful when you're shrinking, it's even worse when you're increasing. Whatever you do, it's never good. It's no good that you're doing your job fairly, so they deal with imaginary affairs every day. There's nothing they didn't make up. When you tell them, come and confirm whether or not you are telling the truth, then do not be a lie detector. A lie detector would fall apart if they came there to make statements and statements. Then, as an accident, they appear in all the newspapers – it's not really, you know, a means of proof, the material so collected cannot serve as evidence. Let me see you, experts, go to the polygraph, go to the lie detector, and see how you trick him. It's all in one sense important, and that's – let's say something and let's do something against our country. Not because they hate their country. Don't think that's the case, it's not. They just hate everyone else who is more successful than them, just as I think Mesa Selimovic is talking about it in her Fortress. I think it's "The Fortress," don't hold my word. I repeat, he said that we... Can I ask you not to throw it at me? You don't even learn decency at school, you learn it at home. I'm not asking you for anything but decent behavior. It's my only request. So we always despised those who were worse than us and hated those who were more successful. From that angle, I understand many others, and we will continue to work. In three months, we'll see how things are and announce new increases, get ready again, no credit again, and see what else we can do. In Belgrade, you will soon have from Hilton to Double Hotel, to Ikee, all that we did not have in the previous years, but we will start investing more and we will make a special plan, not only for schools, hospitals and health homes, but especially to subsidize those who want to invest in Pcinski, Jablanski, Pirotski, Nisavski, Toplički County, because we want to have more investors there. After many years without large investments in Novi Sad, when I say many years, and for large investments is something that will be over a thousand employees, you will now have before the end of the year, an investment in Novi Sad, where people will commit to employ more than 2,000 people and will employ 3,000 people from the automotive industry very important to us, very important. We will succeed in doing so, as I said to the people of Priboj, we will not leave them, as we have said to many others, but we will not leave them even though others have successfully destroyed them and almost destroyed them in the years that preceded them. I ask the People's MPs not to underestimate hard and hard work, which is usually a characteristic for us Serbs, to underestimate everyone else without always overestimating ourselves, is that not what we can do with anyone else and with everyone else in the region. We need to understand how and how to position ourselves. That's why it's very important and very important that we show what's all of what they're saying is incorrect and what's true. I am grateful to Ljubi Orbovic and many others yesterday for being correct, so they said the Labour Act did not bring such negative consequences and layoffs as they spoke of. They're not happy about it, I'm happy about what's been brought and it's a more flexible market. It's the fact that it suits investors, that they support it, that that's why people are hired, but I understand them, too, although they were very correct. With such people, with such partners as we have among the workers, we should always help in such a way that we continue to work and we will always be able to produce new and better results. They told us the first 500 dinars for the subscription will be terrible, the creature I don't know how much, and that's why the revolution was not raised, and it's not enough when you increase your salary by 1,000 or 2,000, or 3,000, or 4,000, that's nothing, and 500 dinars is the reason for the revolution. So when we say, there's not going to be 500 dinars, but there's going to be between 120 and 150, so that's what you're going to take from us through the budget. And then you stop and say you just don't have any more answers to all that. I think it was important to protect, first of all, pensioners as much as possible. I think we're going to be able to make some more progress on medications, even though we've done a lot of things, to try to keep those prices down without jeopardizing, not only the market, but the drug manufacturers in our country, to make it easier for the pensioners, first of all, of course, but for everyone else. Let me give you another cigarette case, as they say, they'll pick up cigarettes. Maybe, but it's because producers see they can sell. This is because manufacturers want to earn more and not because they are followed by regular and contractual excise duties that come only in January or February and which is minimal. It's a regular alignment, what we have agreed and agreed on, than people see, you'll forgive me for saying in such a way that more cigarettes are spent, more smoking than before, that people can afford it and want to raise prices. It has nothing to do with the government. We'll talk to them, but they're paying excises more than ever. On today's November month day, we have an excise charge a few billion more than in November of last year, then you just watch how and how and why we don't have a problem filling the budget. I want to repeat again for all citizens of Serbia. We don't talk about budget rebalancing here today, because we don't have budget rebalance for the first time in 40 and a few years. Our finances are clean and arranged as a pharmacy. A third big deal, today we're talking about what we're giving as one-time help and support to educators and professors at the university. One who doesn't want or doesn't understand the state's position he's in has some reason. We don't have any problem. Anyone can always give money to their government. We'll get every penny back in the budget, thank you all. But I think that out of these 141,000, 140,900 people will accept it and say that they are satisfied not with the money, not that they are rich, but that they are satisfied that someone, first of all, wanted to show – that we understand that education is in a difficult situation and that's why we gave education four plus 1.2%, so we will enlighten and next time most of all... Our excise duty in November of last November, so far, which is 11th, 12th of November, which is, it doesn't matter, by 5.3 billion. So, just to keep that in mind. So, the whole session today concerns that we want to show respect and respect for educators and professors at the university, only in that, seven thousand dinars is not small money, for me it's not small, I don't know who it is, I'm sure for teachers neither in Babusnica nor in Somboro, but in downtown Belgrade it's not small money. Will there be more? It will be, if we are successful and if we work as in 2015 because the next time we increase it, no one will have less income than he had, with such inflation it will mean that he has higher incomes. It's all up to us. Can we work, do we work, be committed on that path, or we'll just watch how to spoil everything that's good in any way. I want to thank you once again, I am sorry that of the opposition MPs, there are five of them in total, as you can see, I don't know if there are any or never, but I'm satisfied that the MPs show responsibility, as I hope you won't mind the honourable MPs that I had to come and explain to you today, what time I've found and come and show what it was that we did in the previous period, and we'll come to show and what we've done from the highways, how many bridges we've restored after the flood, how many regional and local roads we've made and how much we'll only make. How many factories we've opened, you'll get a special report because they keep saying that these factories and these jobs are gone, so you'll get a full report and we'll compare it to some previous period. Of course, we still have a lot of jobs ahead of us. I'm just asking everyone to understand, to support, but I'm also asking for the words of criticism. Every time we do something bad and do something bad, but I also ask you not to protect us, because I don't need any protection, the people know what we can do, they know what we've never done. I want you to fight for your ideas and fight for advanced and prosperous Serbia. When I said that I didn't mean it in a party sense, I thought that there must be nothing more important to us than our Serbia, that we must take care of it, that we must keep it politically, but that we must also think about how to improve our economy. The economy is the issue of one of our political progress, we are on a stable and solid basis, both the IMF and the World Bank and the IBRD and the IDA say, the EU also says. But it doesn't matter what they say, it's important that our people know that we work honestly and that we work equally honestly and even harder. Convinced that the results will be even more, I don't want to speak much better, because these results are good. These are good results, and remember what I told you six months ago, please, that one day, and when people are dissatisfied, and when they change most of them, when they bring others to power, they will study and speak commendably about this period, and that it will be clear to everyone that Serbia has carried out the most difficult and essential reforms at this very time. So be proud of yourself for fighting, for fighting for normal, decent and successful Serbia, and we will see that we serve you in this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38935	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38936	I thank you, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vucicu, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected fellow educators and educational staff, I will first and foremost focus on the amendment of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, and I will certainly support the other two draft laws concerning two important contracts. First of all, I'd like to take this opportunity to take advantage of a few days late to all my fellow educators to congratulate Educational Workers' Day, November 7th. It is the date when our great reformer Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic was born. Dear colleagues, I also have one message – that you are still doing your very difficult, highly responsible job, and on the other hand very beautiful and creative, in the best possible way, safe, professionally, in the best interests of your students, in the best interests of profession, profession, but also personal, professional training. Reforms are under way. To realize them, of course, we need to reform our education system. Education, we've heard today, is production. Education produces knowledge that must be appreciated. Knowledge, which should be much more quality, which implies its sustainability, its quality, but also its functionality and application in practice. Today we are talking about supplementing the 2015 Budget Law and in this sense we have an amendment of two members, that is Article 17, where a new position 3 is added, where it is possible for employees in education to receive one-time assistance. And it's very important news for all the employees of education, institutions for primary, secondary education, institutions for the student standard, but we also heard that it was complemented for all the employees of higher and higher schools today. On this occasion, several meetings were held with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education, the trade unions, and I would say that at the last of those meetings, the prime minister himself was present. Based on everything, it has been estimated that it is currently realistic and possible to give one-time aid to the employees of education at the level of 7,000 dinars. And it is realistic and possible and it is a reflection of our financial stability. It is a reflection that we have finally stopped negative trends in the area of finance. For the sake of a fellow educator, I'd like to say one more thing. That doesn't mean their right to jubilee awards will be lifted. It is not abolished, it will be paid for all those who have achieved this right this year, but from the budget units of local self-government. Of course, one-time assistance for educators will not essentially and permanently resolve their position, but this help would say that it is a good sign, a good symbol of the government's goodwill, that it recognized the problems of the education workers' position today, that we must correct the inherited mistakes, not to mention 2008 and some earlier years. In order to solve essentially the problem of the position of educational workers, we need to quality pay classes, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on Higher Education, then the Register of Interests, but also the concept of dual education, as well as the restoration of all our schools. I dare say something else that I think is very important – it may also be possible to allow public-private partnerships in schools, additional funding of our school workers through projects, but also greater development of educational tourism. Because today's biggest problem with education is that there are fewer and fewer children, future students and students, and in this way we could revive our villages and abandoned school buildings. Of course, it is necessary that all of us who are either direct or indirect, related to education, do our best to finally get better education days in Serbia, so that the concern for the position of educational workers is no longer on the table. I am sure that this Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, will certainly succeed. And just one last observation. All the criticism I feel today was criticism for criticism, not well-intentioned, but not useful. It was highly politicized, and I would say – always with the same goal, to diminish all efforts, all the successes of this government of the Republic of Serbia, and these results, we must admit that they are visible, that they are present, that they are measurable and that they are recognised today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38937	The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38938	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of truth, I'd like to inform you of the following. You know that, behold, all day long, days, weeks, months, demeaning everything we've said, and today they've been saying that something is miserable -- well, yes, a man can and agree with it. And do you know how much government has given this kind of assistance and support from 2008 to 2012? You know how many times that's been on an annual level? Good for you, Milia, is that Serbian folk costume. Do you know how many times they've given our educators, except what they've told them - we're increasing your salary 10%, so inflation is 25%? Zero times. Zero. She gave one other government in 2008, and then she was praised – she gave 5,000 dinars. She gave our government in 2013, Svetosavian support and assistance from 4,000 dinars. This is 7,000 dinars. It's not good enough and it's not good enough, because it's much better to be zero, how did some others do it, and in the years where the country went downhill and right into the ambis? I've come up with some more data, to see how it worked, especially what they're criticizing, and I'm especially prepared to argue about who's a thief and who's not, who's stealing and who's not. I love these discussions most, with those who robbed Serbia through the privatisation process, with those who lived and worked for it to rob something and to transfer something to honest people. As you can see, I have no fear at all, but I come directly to see what anyone will tell me, and let's see what I tell them. So let's see whose argument will be more serious, more accurate and precise. Dear friends, they told us there was nothing wrong with what we did about "Er Serbia". Is that what happened? For decades, the average loss was between 37m and 39m euros annually. They told us there was nothing wrong, they were pulling data. Here, just to see what it looks like today. The number of passengers in millions of passengers compared to 2012, as 1.3 increased to 2.3 in 2014 and this year will be 2.6 million passengers. Income in millions of euros from 161 to 192 in 2014 will be over 210 in 2015. From the number of destinations, from 32 which were not daily, has been increased to 40 that are daily. At 9,500 flights, it's increased to 15,000 flights. Flights increased by four, age reduced from 25 to 17 years average. Kargo growth is 60% compared to JAT. The number of pilots has increased by 100. Number of pilots, first time we've had them, we haven't had them before. The number of cabin crew members increased by another 30. The number of employees under the age of 30, since there was always only one way to save room for someone, and not how to get a new job, from 4% to 28%. There are 30 other people employed by technical staff. So I just listed what it looks like today and why everyone in the region is jealous of "Er Serbia". There are just some of us who want it to be bad. There's only one thing I can't explain -- how did the airport in their time be worth a 30-year concession of 120 to 140 million, and how can we get over 500 million euros today? I think citizens can understand that and how well they can understand it. I just made a mistake. It's not the Veljko Vlahović school, it's the "Drinka Pavlovic" school in Krusumlia. Please see this video. (The Prime Minister shows the photograph. If you can believe that such a school exists. I don't think there's a toilet like this in any prison in the world. That toilet exists at our school in Kursumlia. Here I have photos from 15, 20 schools, from "Petefi Brigada" in The Tower, physical hall, that is Vojvodina, to the school "King Petar II" in Užica, to "Toplic Heroes" in Žitoraj, you do not know which is worse. Why? Because they couldn't make combinations, there's little money when you have to paint something, when you have to paint something. Small money to some people was to deal with it and do these little things. The big ones didn't even want to do anything, because somewhere you have to see the result. So they forgot about the highways, so they forgot about the railroad, so they forgot about the air carrier, they forgot everything big enough, and they didn't want to think small because they didn't have enough honey. That's why they didn't even do this. That's why they didn't even solve these issues. We have today, so that people in Serbia know what kind of work it is, a total of elementary schools 1,257 and add to that 441 high school. We will complete 50 by the end of next year, a total of 130 schools will be completed before spring. We'll see to it that we finish over 700, 800 schools by the end of next year, that in every school that can be entered, there are those that are in good shape, but they're rare. I'm going to do it myself. I'm going to oversee that program myself. I'm going to every school in Serbia, every school. I will enter every home of health in Serbia, every hospital I enter, because I will not let any of our children enter a toilet like this, every one. That's my promise. No prime minister has ever entered the hundredth of our schools. I'm going to every school and I'm not going to be a corpse in every school to see what the bathroom is like, to see where our kids are going, not to get contagious diseases, but to see what it is we can do for them. I'll do the same with hospitals. As far as that goes, I want you to know that the gamma-knife is doing great for us. So far, 15 operations, helping people, after many years, we've bought a machine. I don't understand, Doctor, I'm sorry about that. That's where they took me. It was mine to provide money, and you understand for yourself that they led me there as a bear to show me something, which I don't understand, but I saw that patients are satisfied, that people are satisfied that we can now treat a brain tumor in a painless and best way, in a world way, that they don't have to wait and pay dearly in Turkey and some other countries. I want to inform you that after eight, nine years, when they took the money for that milk reference lab, about ten years after they took the money, 15 million, so that 15 million is gone, I want to inform you that today this reference laboratory is finished and that it's going to start working for a few days and that we're going to be able to have all the samples, all the analyses in the best possible way, that we bought four linear accelerators for 700 million dinars. That's what we're going to solve for treatment of cancer patients and waiting lists. So there will be no more waiting lists with us, as there have been for years. It's just about whether or not we're making progress. Then, look, please, if you can see this. (The Prime Minister shows the photograph. See, this collapsed, wasteful house with no scratches, no beams, no nothing, doesn't look like anything. It's costing to bring it down. Do you know how much we paid for this, how much you paid for this, how much Serbian citizens paid for this? I'll read it to you correctly. They paid 112 million, beware, not 112, 112 million, 112,373 dinars, over a million euros. Look, you paid a million euros for this. That's what you paid for, Serbian citizens, a million euros. It was supposed to be a home for disabled children. It's a home for disabled children, paid a million euros. Then they say, there is little seven thousand; there is little four times zero dinars, as much as you have given to the educators; and this is how much we can, we give as much as we have saved without stealing anything. We'll hopefully have more debates like this in the National Assembly next year. I am almost convinced that in the period ahead of us we will be able to show, and you know that we have Serbian citizens, whatever happens, whatever is good, with us consensus, if you want to celebrate, there is no. Tell me what is happening, what is it that needs to happen in order for Serbs to celebrate somewhere or to say that something is good? Kosovo has not been admitted to UNESCO. Did we celebrate? We didn't. We were not declared a genocide nation in the UN, and that would be a stamp, a seal on our forehead for the next 200 years. We didn't. Did we celebrate when we had to be abolished for justice and the morals of the sanctions that Croatia imposed on us, economically, after only 30 hours? We didn't. What is it, then, that Serbs will celebrate? What is it that we're going to respect without these sports results? I'm afraid we're all gonna find a little something together. That's why disrespect reigns with us, and that's why I've made a mistake in one of my little pieces, returning, I'd say, in a way I don't like. That's why we have to show respect for those I think we're better, but we have to give them a chance for the game and at the same time we can't show that we're the same as them. That is why I do not criticise those who have made the decision to let Eulex be in Kosovo and Metohija, nor criticise anyone else, but we are looking to meet our obligations. We're looking to see what it is that we can do, what it is that we can do. So once again, this was our intention, and with that intention, we will continue to provide help and support for those we think are, not by our will, but by the force of opportunity, ignorance, irresponsibility, incompetence and incompetence of those who have managed this country, damaged and, as far as we can, we will continue always in the future, but we cannot go forward as a society if we have a pathological need to keep going back into the past, to find a way to stab ourselves in the back and stop the way forward. Listen, in these schools that we're going to renovate, you and I should go to these schools and introduce some other subject of courtesy. Do you have any object of good behavior, to introduce such a thing, to see? He's got a citizen's education. Okay. What do you want? With that civic education, I guess I sometimes understood better what home education is, but now even a man doesn't know what to say anymore, so he doesn't make a mistake. It doesn't matter. I want to thank you again for your support. This good news, these good days, there will be many more, they will be more frequent. We will not multiply our successes by zero as some have multiplied them by zero years, we will sometimes look at multiplying them by 7,000, sometimes 10,000, sometimes much more, but we will never risk Serbia's financial stability. Our economy is going to advance, we're going to provide conditions for an even greater number of people to be employed, and once, confident and quite sure, we're all going to be able to agree on the period after us. If we do not agree or agree on the assessment of something that is coming, it is that we have created a final basis for a firm and good house for all citizens of Serbia with bold, difficult, serious and responsible reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38939	The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38940	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to ask you, in fact, to inform me, did we, at the meetings where the Prime Minister was present, abolish or suspend the right of MPs to disrespect the President of the Rules of Procedure, given that I had not received my word at the time of the prime minister's first speech of 28 minutes? The second question, in fact, I assume that no one has the right to answer this statement, or you intend to give someone a chance to answer later. My injury, actually what I want to point out to you, is, it's already happened a while ago, so maybe you'll have a hard time remembering. The 107th article obliges you to give all speakers an obligation to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and you have allowed the Prime Minister the things he has allowed himself, and you certainly should not have allowed him to do so. He said that some MPs were talking nonsense about the debts of "Srbigas". I believe that the prime minister is creating his parallel world in which "Srbigas" is a successful firm, in which the unions are delighted with this agreement, in which, if you will, the MPs are getting it, because he is the only one in the room who hears that these MPs are getting it, and he allows himself something that you should not allow him in this assembly, to be a criterion of stupidity, a criterion of wisdom, a criterion of honesty and dishonesty, so we have heard from him on several occasions that the texts that he has not read are the most stupid things he has seen in his life, that certain works are stupid and everyone who is close to him is fair, anyone who is against him...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38941	I'm gonna have to interrupt. It's been two minutes and let me answer you, of course, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know how to explain to you at all that he's a very respected member of 107. Prime Minister Alexander Vukic is always welcome in our parliament. (The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov throws out of place. I would ask you not to throw away, but to draw attention to someone else’s behavior. He's always welcome. What certainly confuses you, which is that you did not have the challenge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure, because Prime Minister Cvetkovic never came to parliament, so you did not have to think at all about interpreting and respecting a member of 107 or any of them. As for the further debate, you asked me a question, even though it's not Tuesday or Thursday, but I'll be tolerant, democratic, and I'll answer that on Wednesdays. Of course they have the right to discuss, I will read to you further by Business, Ljiljana Malušić, Irena Alexic, Biljana Ilic Stosic, Dusan Jankovic, Milija Miletic and Zoran Babic. So I'm sure there's going to be a debate. I hope they also have the right of Serbian Progressive Party MPs to say their views on the bill we have before us, but what to do is that you have spent your time. So many citizens of Serbia have given you. As hard as I try to stretch democracy, I can't get past the will of the citizens. I'd very much like to give you more time, but I can't, they're not giving me Serbian citizens. Some other time. Here you go. Is that the Rules of Procedure, that blue book? You can't follow the Constitution. You can only follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38942	The Rules of Procedure come out of the Constitution, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38943	You must quote the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38944	Of course, the Honorable President, as I always do. I now advertise, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Prime Minister, Members of 106 and 108. Rules of Procedure and Rule 98 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. First, let me say that, of course, the Prime Minister is welcome to the National Assembly. As I recall, Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, you've given us a session here and promised to come to the National Assembly more often, if possible, and every last Thursday to answer the questions of the MPs. I was sitting here and I heard what you said. Checked in the stenogram, Mr. Wolf, you weren't in the Assembly in August...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38945	I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure now, because I'm letting you address Alexander Wolfich. I'll ask myself to vote on my behavior. What am I breaking the Rules of Procedure about? Let the Prime Minister go, he doesn't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38946	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure since the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, said that he would, since he decided that he would be free to answer our questions from six hours today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38947	He didn't say that, and I apologize to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38948	Yes, it is. Mr. Wolfie, did you say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38949	... which I will respect the Rules of Procedure so you will no longer... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I listened to Mr. Vukic today and said that he has time... Today is Wednesday. He'll be here one Thursday, and we who work every day can miss the other day. What are we gonna do, somebody was walking yesterday, and somebody was doing it? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Debata. He can't debate past the Rules of Procedure. They'd climb on top of my head, I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, if you'd just walk past the line. Please, colleague Ljiljana Malusic to speak of... You want a word again? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38950	I'd just like to say for the public's sake that I said a little differently. I said I'd be free from six in the afternoon. I was free a little earlier, so I came in five at the National Assembly session, because I, the right to tell you, don't like to sit down and waste my time, and I don't like to be in neither the Assembly nor the Government's cafes, or the cafes, or anything else, so I apologize for coming to the National Assembly a little earlier, but it had nothing to do with the MPs' institute, nor did I say that, just for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the Serbian citizens. As for my arrival in the National Assembly, it is true that I could come more often and that is my duty, but I must say that I am the prime minister who is most often in the National Assembly. Of all the Prime Ministers I have spent most of my time in the National Assembly. I plan on going on like that. Because whenever I think we have some problems and we have a lot of trouble and we don't know how to pass on certain things to the people, it's always good for me to come here to the Assembly to talk to you, because I'm counting on it so convincingly that you're going to beat me as you announce on all social networks, that I'm going to have to deal with all the other things for at least a few weeks afterwards. As for "Serbigas", no one thinks it's a wonderful and excellent company, on the contrary. This company is burdened with the problems, the huge debts you've made, the huge, creepy debts that someone has to solve today, that's why "Srbigas". You know how it went to know? They deliver gas, heat charges from citizens, and no money returns to "Srbigas". And that was your case in countless cities and municipalities in Serbia. The state of Serbia actually collapsed and destroyed all its businesses. What I said was that "Srbigas" is not late today for a dinar to the Russian partner in fulfilling its current obligations. Don't twist and mock my words, they're true, they're precise. We were now in Russia where we and our Russian partners analyzed. We still have 16m euros left just to pay off our current commitments, and that should be in the next, I think, 20 or a month to pay off, but that's in line with the protocol we have, and 200 million of us have already paid off. So, I just want to tell you that things are changing, that things are getting better. The only thing I didn't understand was what we spent 112, 113 million dinars on, is this costing 113 million dinars? Is that what it costs? They say -- you put money on buses like this and like that, you put money on planes, they say -- that's terrible. Imagine. We invested in Serbian buses and Serbian planes, we did, and in this sorry, we did not invest millions of euros in Serbian citizens and we did not kidnap millions of euros from disabled children. As far as honesty and dishonesty are concerned, there are always, of course, the competent authorities that will give the final judgment and I don't want to prejudge many things. But if someone isn't allowed to go to a lie detector, but as a devil of the cross, they're afraid of a lie detector, and someone else can go there and answer every question, I have to tell you no matter how funny it is to you, no matter how much it is to you, I don't know how to say it, that tells me precisely who's right and who's wrong. I am absolutely sure that people in Serbia also understand this well and that this and how they will be able to appreciate it, and of course the competent state authorities and believe in the future in a more uncomparably effective judiciary, because I could talk a lot about it today and it seems to me and our government to criticise, although the government must not have any influence on the judiciary, but I am talking about the conditions that must be created as well as any previous ones. I hope that we will live in an orderly system and in two, three years it will be much better, and then we will be able to see that neither you nor I have to raise the tone when certain names are spoken without knowing what you would say, well, let the competent authorities determine that. But the authorities will, as they do today, use the lie detector, and I'm afraid that some of them, as they do today, will run from the lie detectors like the devil from the cross. Looks like I miss Borko. But... I miss Borko. Don't mind me saying this, I was just kidding, I believe you miss it, too. I wish you good luck and I'm sorry I won't bother you any more, I count from time to time when you invite me to tear me apart, I'll come back, and now thank you very much and I congratulate the citizens of Serbia on the successful reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38951	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38952	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I am sorry that one of the most important, best figures of the present day concerning the Republic of Serbia, our prime minister, is one of the most educated. It's hard to talk after him, but I'm really gonna be brief and I'm gonna talk about three laws. The first is the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. For the sake of the public to point out once again, we do not rebalance the budget on the contrary, we are only doing the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. We can boast that the fiscal deficit has been reduced and that the current growth rate is 1.75%, congratulations. In the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, the government has decided to pay a one-time payment of 7,000 dinars to net educational workers to the employees of primary and secondary education institutions and institutions of higher education institutions and student standards, but this is net. Gross is 12,000, because here we have the following taxes and contributions, which means 100 euros. That's not a little bit since there are 141.807 educators. Gentlemen, that's about 14 million euros somewhere. Bravo. This is just for the end of the year. The next year we will be mostly committed to health and enlightenment, and I look forward to it. In my day there was a doctor, a teacher, or professor – a persona uno. I'm grateful for that. I hope that something called culture and education system, which is completely devalued, will return and be what needs to be in Serbia. That's also true of health care. I know that early next year all schools in Serbia will be painted, that all sanitary nodes will be arranged. It's a shame what he showed us, photos of our esteemed prime minister, schools in Serbia. I hope that this will never happen again and that all children across Serbia, especially in southern Serbia, southeastern Serbia, eastern and western Serbia, will have classrooms that suit them. This law takes effect the next day from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" which means it is an emergency procedure, and should be neared by the end of the year and once again, this is not a budget rebalance, it is just an addition of the law. What is very important is to point out this, that all the prizes that should be given in 2015 for Christmas, the New Year will not be awarded, but will be awarded jubilee awards, so that all the people who won that award in 2015 will be respected, and the users are budgets. Local self-government is required to provide funds for these awards. If that doesn't happen, the finance minister will personally lift that inflow that should go unless it happens. I'm happy about it, and I'm glad that the principle is respected. What is still to be said is that the implementation of this law is of course determined by the means, and I will, since today we are only talking about one capital law, which concerns the Enlightener and every moment, we have two more laws. One proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes. This law was signed in 2015, on 28 August, in four languages, which says that the very important tax applicable to contracts is, above all in Serbia, the corporate tax, income tax, property tax, and in Kazakhstan, corporate income tax, citizen income tax, property tax, legal and physical property tax, there is a difference. The Treaty provides common criteria for determining the right to tax certain categories of income and property. The Treaty stimulates investment in capital, which is very important, especially the residences of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as residents of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Republic of Serbia. Then, the contract sets out a legal precondition for more efficient innovation and competitiveness of businesses, and thus will be made possible on both sides both better and faster privatisation. What I would further point out, it is the third law, simply that our viewers know that we have three laws today, but the first law was of course the most important, is also the proposal for a law to confirm the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes. This Treaty shall apply to persons resident in one or both Contracting States. Taxes to which this contract applies are, above all, national income tax in Norway, then county and municipal income tax, municipal income tax, national income tax for research into the exploitation of maritime oil sources and oil income tax. Also, there is another tax, which is a national tax on receiving non-resident artists. It's very important that we know a country. When we know her, we love her and invest in her. What is very important for these agreements and agreements is to strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries. Thank you for your attention, in voting day, I will vote for all three of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38953	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go, Mrs. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38954	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, has been said today about education itself at all and of course the most said was whether the one-time assistance provided by the seven thousand dinars was adequate or not. I am pleased that we agreed at least once, and that is how important education is and important for a society that has the ambition to be and remain a mature and civilized society, and of course RS is. We all agreed that education is not an upgrade, but one basic need, one basic of every society, and as such it should really be treated that way, as well as people who work in education. What I would point out and what I certainly know as an educator is how difficult it is and how demanding it is, above all, how responsible the job is. It's a huge responsibility that you take on when someone gives you their child, to teach him, to instill in him certain criteria of value, so the concerns that go with it, are you creative enough as a professor, are you giving yourself enough, are you able enough to interest students in class to love your subject. What's most important and most important of all, do you have enough influence on whether your students will one day become quality people, do you try hard enough to instill in the time that is the way it is, whether you're doing everything in your power, more than just putting in normal proper values criteria, which is the most important thing. Of course, we all agree that educational workers should be adequately paid and, of course, we all agree that they are not adequately paid now. This cash aid is one-off from the 7,000 dinars, which are intended for them, of course not to solve the problem, or the status of educators. That wasn't even the intensity of this government. What this one-time aid of seven thousand dinars does, first of all, I would say, is that it shows, that it shows that this government takes care of its educators, its teachers, teachers, teachers, that it has not forgotten them, that it deals with them, and of course that monetary aid is like money aid itself means, but maybe what I was talking about means even more. What I would also point out is the fact that since it was said that, to whom this assistance will be delivered, linearly aid is being extradited and what I would point out is that this seven thousand dinar cash will be paid to all those who work in education regardless of whether their colleagues are engaged in 10, 20 or about 100%. So, it won't be often, as was the case so far while I was working in education, that some colleagues who may have been employed 10 or 20% to be excluded, which I think is very good, which is why this kind of discrimination is avoided. What I really deeply believe is that all of us MPs, we've been given the means to do this, we simply all have to work to improve our education, to improve the position of educators through amendments, through parliamentary issues. Indeed, there are many mechanisms that we have and we need to use them. So, constantly working to improve their material status above all, to improve them not to be, I often express it in my exhibitions when it comes to education, not to be overcrowded with paperwork like it is now and so far, that something is constantly changing, that they have to be constantly in the process of what is changing, that the plan and the programme are adequately written. So, overcrowded with paperwork, which practically makes it impossible for them to do their primary work, that is, to work in the classroom and work with students for that reason. But what's definitely most important of all, I'd say, is that we all have to work together to regain the dignity of the job of teachers, teachers, teachers. I think that's the point and the essence of it all. Perhaps as much as this profession was once respected may best say the names of certain municipalities, that is, parts of Belgrade, the Professor's colony, the Teacher's settlement, perhaps in the best way to bear witness to how much this profession was truly respected in the past, and how unfortunately it is not today. However, the dignity of this profession has not been lost in the last three years, in the last five years. There's a number of years as gradually and very successfully, I'd say, degrades this job in different ways, so unfortunately, once again I say, dignity, not even monetary power can come back at once overnight. What has to be recognised by this government is that it's hard work. This one-time help is the best proof of it. Also, the proof of this is 4%, which is intended to increase the salary to the educators and another proof of it, namely something which is the same big step, which I would especially like to point out, and I hope that this law will really be done in quality, is the Payment Class Act, something that, I believe, will, in essence, solve the issue of educational workers systematically. So, there's something we have to agree on, which is that this government is very committed to working on improving the position of educators, only unfortunately it hasn't been destroyed overnight, so it can't, of course, be recovered overnight. Once again what I would like to point out at the very end of the exhibition, instead of arguing whether this one-time aid of seven thousand dinars is adequate or not, I simply don't understand the need to take something that is good, which is positive, which is if nothing else is one big step forward, from where such a strong need to wait on a knife, to be demeaned, and nothing else is offered as an alternative. I don't see what the alternative is. Was it better not to get any help? Of course not. It's just, as someone who's lived on a professor's salary for years, and only on a professor's salary, I can say, I feel free to say, on behalf of all my colleagues, that this assistance will be very welcome. Maybe for some people who are enormously rich, who are never and unfortunately never going to live off their salaries, maybe it's miserable for them, maybe it's for them to underestimate. For those of us who live on our salary, it certainly is not for underestimation, and it certainly needs to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38955	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word is Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go, Mrs. Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38956	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, as someone who has eaten the greatest part of his professional career advocacy bread, whenever such topics are on the agenda, I have a moral and any other obligation to report, so I should understand my address today. The fact that teachers' jobs are valued so that they're more than depraved news is decades old. That's what we all knew when we dedicated ourselves to this wonderful job, we went to education, not to get rich, but to get completely different reasons. Being a teacher, a teacher, a teacher, whatever, one word an educator is a particular kind of challenge, an extremely demanding occupation whose results are projected years and decades in advance. Let's just say that when you meet one of your former students and you see how great a man has become, you're convinced that you've at least contributed a little bit to that success. The respect that your students show you all over the school for years and at every opportunity is a better recognition than any plaque and medal and more valuable than any jubilee award. I know you don't live off that kind of satisfaction, but it's easier to live with. On the other hand, there's been too much bad news coming from our education for decades, with the most powerful issue of education workers. Rightly so, I agree, because it's a highly educated category of citizens who can barely get to the republican average. All of this by who knows which way the strike results, which the students warmly support, because the children are only children, because they lose lessons that, they already know well, will only make up for formally, speedily and in a shortened procedure. Discipline parents who, unfortunately, have fewer incomes than educators look at it helplessly, wondering how they will pay private lessons to their children, because at the end of all knowledge is still the most important, and future exams are ruthless. So with all the solidarity with my fellow educators, I am not now, nor have I ever been convinced that strike is a good way to solve this and how a burning and important social problem. Years ago, the problem of earning educators has been thrown into the shadow of some other, perhaps larger problems. For example, the problem of peer violence that is on the rise or the problem of teaching limitations, on the other hand. Then, in itself, the question arises whether the prevention of peer violence would be better, and would a more creative approach continue if educators were to increase their earnings and who should take the first step – teachers, who, by way of their work, will prove for a longer time that they deserve far more respect, and thus also a reward or state that will begin to recognise their merits, such a blank and advance, assuming that most teachers are perfectly performing their trusted role and tasks? Reforming this important segment of society is a real and burning problem, in addition to administrative measures, the introduction of payment classes and the introduction of a dual education concept could be an effective formula for solving this problem. So, first of all, work to increase the usefulness of knowledge acquired at school, usability in practice. The moment parents start putting pressure on teachers to give their children as much useful and useful knowledge as possible, instead of just asking them for more grades, it will be a sign that the whole society cares about the green branch. On this FON, it is possible to seek the direction of solving truly underrated edifying work. Until then, I believe that my colleagues will show a high degree of social responsibility through understanding the problems this government has inherited and trying to resolve in the long run. This will show in the clearest possible way that they belong to a true social elite, which has a mission to create a better future, which is why it deserves to be a much better material reward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38957	I thank Mrs. Ilic Stosic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dusan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38958	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers and MPs, has already said much today in support of this law. In my own way, I would like to explain the support of this legislative proposal, proposed by the government headed by Alexander Vukic. The previous regime was deafened by frequent strikes by educators due to low and inadequate salaries. Our government led by Aleksandra Vukic, at a time when heavy reforms are carried out and with great work, effort and understanding, has managed to find an acceptable solution to this problem, which is the adoption and adoption of this law with the aim of improving the quality of the primary and secondary schools process and institutions of the student standard. In fact, we all know, less or less, whether we are familiar with both the work and the material situation of educational workers in primary and secondary schools. Their material status, we can say, is unenviable. Educational workers do a very responsible and human job. These are people in most college graduate cases, working with children whose sphere of interest in science is different. They must adjust their lecture so that each child understands what the lecturer presented to them and that every child is interested in the matter. That's not easy at all. The work of an educator is not just about going to school, teaching and going home. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They spend hours and hours making preparations for every school class, for every teaching unit, and all that, if you can say so, is at the expense of their spare time. Not a small number of educators, especially in small communities, are faced with an additional problem, and this is because of the growing number of children in schools, lack of full fund hours, and are forced, in order to have a full norm or full fund of lessons, to go to other schools to maintain teaching, which are rarely more miles away, and even dozens of kilometers, and flying and winter, which makes their work more difficult. This cash amount we're talking about today is a sign of attention and goodwill to help as much as possible right now, but from real revenue sources. Someone may fail to give this help, but we must be realistic and admit that this government and this Parliament, in addition to their best wishes, is unable to solve all the problems that the previous regime has made overnight. This series of unresolved problems also involve the problems of educators. That is why all of us together, as our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said, will step by step solve the problems and we will meet the possibility of increasing wages and educators in the coming year. Since much has already been said, the only thing left for me to do in the voting day is to invite all the wise and intelligent heads of this house, and there are, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38959	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38960	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, respected finance ministers with colleagues, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I will talk about the draft law on the addition of the Fund Act, which provides short-term or one-time assistance to educators. We are all witnesses of periods behind us, and we all know, I have many friends of educational workers, people who work in education and in conversation with them and I have heard and I know, and I have had opportunities as president of the municipality that together with local self-government I help schools, both primary and secondary school, in conversations with all of our colleagues, friends, educational workers we have come to know, and now we all know that their funds are insufficient, the income is small in relation to others, and that is why this is because in 2009 and 2010, the salary for all other services, i.e. the ministry, for education is not increased and it is said to increase some other time. After the difficult situation in which our country, where we have had major problems with finance, here we finally have the opportunity to, together with our prime minister, with Mr Vujovic, finance minister and with the entire government, slowly stabilise the budget of the Republic of Serbia and move along some easy road, but a path that is right, where it is safe to go, as it is said, into someone better tomorrow. Here, this is a good step, a step to help our educators through a one-time aid of seven thousand dinars, by putting the highest percentage through the increase in profit for educators and giving the highest importance. I've got kids finishing up, one graduates from Srlig High School, the other graduates from Blatz High School, and I'm aware that children will have a better opportunity when educators can work better through this kind of stimulation, with what we know, we just said, as little as possible, that's a little bit. But we need to be satisfied, because in such a difficult situation, when our Serbia is slowly, but surely moving forward, it goes better tomorrow through the stabilisation of the budget, education gets these funds, and it puts the greatest emphasis on educators, and normally others in our public sector. In a conversation with my friends educators, I had the knowledge that a large number of them, but it wasn't in my municipality of Svrlig, it was in some other municipalities that were near Svrlig, where they told me that they were, as they say, taking from the house certain funds, paper supplies, textbooks, teaching tools, electronic devices, to bring them to school to allow children, as they say, to work better. It was some previous period, with me being sure, and I'm talking precisely because it's some local self-government, not the Srlig municipality, but some municipalities next to Srlig, and that's precisely why these local self-governments don't serve enough or they don't service primary, secondary schools or all those educational institutions that are on their territory. We all know that it is the obligation of local self-government to provide funds for primary, secondary schools, for pre-school institutions and for all these educational organisations in their territory. A large number of these local self-governments don't do it and now we don't have enough or paper and a large number of educators who had a jubilee prize, they haven't been paid a jubilee prize. I can say of my municipality that all the jubilee awards were paid to all the educators, everyone who works in education. There's not a single educator or an educator who hasn't won a jubilee award. We paid for it from the budget of the Srlig municipality. So every municipality should do it in a domestic way. I worked hard when I was the president of the municipality, and this will now be done by Jelena Trifunovic, who, along with her colleagues, is helping the local self-government, because we want our children to have the opportunity to have adequate schooling. Not because there are bad conditions, but because I am sure that children from small municipalities, such as the municipality of Srljig, such as the municipality of Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and throughout Serbia, are very smart. They need to learn a little bit, and I can say, and that's for sure, that our educators are very valuable and hardworking people, who aren't looking to see if they've now received 41 thousand, 50,000, 70 thousand, but they're doing exactly because they want to provide our children with a better future. I, as a folk MP representing the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Parliament, elected from the SNS list, fully support the government and this bill, because I think this will in some way help people who need help, which is education. Someone's saying that educators work a little bit. I don't think that's true. I'm sure the educators work hard enough because they work from the heart. What we see, when the class is held, it counts at work, and no one says how much preparation it takes for an educator. They prepare it at night, at night or morning, so that children can communicate more easily and that children remember it much better. As a man who comes from a small municipality, I can say that we have a primary school, a high school, we have a preschool "Poleletarac" and we really think we should help on the part of the Republic, and just before our prime minister said he would invest in school infrastructure and work on energy efficiency in schools. I support it, it's a good thing. This assistance now provided by this law will be in some way a sign of attention, to know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will never forget education, because education is very important to us. To me as a parent is the most important health of my children and children of other parents. But, secondly, the most important thing to me is that after health, my children can be educated, learn and be good people tomorrow. We are witnessing that our country of Serbia has great resources in young people who are very smart, who have learned many things and have done many things for us and for people near our country of Serbia, which are our neighbours or other European countries. What else can I say about this law? I think we're really going to make some contribution to this law to people overcoming certain problems, by saying, again, that domestic business... I now apologize for not saying this right away, I entered the Serbian Parliament not with the aim of doing something negative, but to display our Serbian folk costume and myself as a man who comes from one of the most beautiful municipalities in Serbia, which is the Svrlig municipality. I want to show myself from this place and my community and our MPs that we want to respect our tradition, because we all know what our old people were, how many of our Serbian experts have gone into the world. We also have Nikola Tesla and Michael Pupin and a lot of people who are really very strong. So we have something to show for it, and we're working on it. We have some negative things that were in the previous period, because we are witnessing that certain laws in education were very bad, that some laws were passed right in that period when pre-election actions were in 2012. These laws have slowed down somewhat and done bad things for our education. I think with the new set of laws, we'll have the opportunity to provide for our children easier communication with reality, that they can be easier when they learn and on the spot to see how it's done, because it's not all right and the economy. We must have certain trades. By the way, I'm a high-school veterinary school vet, and I say it everywhere. It's a trade you can live on tomorrow. In the meantime, this job I'm doing, I want you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38961	Please, Mr. Miletic, you must return to the topic, and the time is slowly running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38962	I'll be done in a minute. So I fully support this law. I think this will contribute that our enlighteners can overcome certain problems. On the other hand, I call on local self-governments to put much more emphasis on their schools, on their professors, not on the funds provided for in the budget for certain things, to rebalance budgets for something else, and on schooling that there is no provision of either jubilee prize or children's certain sports props. Once again, we need to invest in education, we need to invest in sports. My municipality of Svrljig is now finishing up, or building a sports hall from its resources, and I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will help to complete all these sports facilities, educational facilities. Once again, I apologize to my fellow Members and to all of you, I think this law is better, better than the previous one where we didn't have the means, but we're going to do something better. We have a possibility, the budget is now consolidated and we're moving forward and I'm sure it'll be better. I, as an MP of the United Peasants' Party, will vote in favour of this law, because I think the law will assist our advisers, as well as the other laws passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by our prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38963	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, as the latest reported debater. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38964	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you too, Mr. Minister, for the attention you have given to today's law and today's subject. I am grateful both to my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament who with great care and participated and followed the course of the session today. The Serbian Progressive Party will, of course, support the law in a voting day. There's a lot of reasons why we'll support it. For many reasons, the prime minister, Mr Alexander Vukic, also spoke of some reasons as well as the speakers of the People's Parliament and the MPs. For me, the dominant reason is that this law is a product of agreement, a product of dialogue between relevant and representative trade unions in education. I thank them for their understanding, for the understanding of the struggle that you fight daily for the healing of our public finances. This law is also a product and another confirmation of the reform course and the reform measures carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore as someone monitoring the spending of public funds and giving consent to this expenditure. I don't think it's small. I don't think he can fill in the budgets of any of the educators, but I'm sure the educators will understand that the right way. We're not going to pollute this law with any hard words that came from some other side, I guess in demeaning, I guess, in what they're going to say they did better. We were better able to see this through five years of governmental conduct, that in those five years they had not thought of educators for one single time, not one single time they introduced such a measure, not one single time managed to save something so that they shared it with people, whether in education or in other areas of the public sector. I've been in the O.R. all day today, just like most of you. I listened carefully to all the debates, many of them I didn't understand. I didn't understand a colleague who, as a good way of doing business and budgets, cited the 2006 budget rebalance. I am grateful to my colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group for doing a very quick and quality analysis of this budget rebalance. Here's what I'm going to tell you, Mr. Vujovic, I'm sure you'll frown on this kind of data. The 2006 budget rebalance, which the co-worker said was one great thing for the government's general secretariat, envisioned services under the contract envisioned by 17 million, with a rebalance of 40 million. For the same General Secretariat of the Government and in 2006, 38 and 66 million dinar rebalancing are scheduled for travel costs. Well, I guess that's how it should be done. Instead of educators, as you do, as is done by the Government of Alexander Vukic and this assembly majority, the colleague said, it is good that 28 million dinars are allocated to the General Secretariat for travel expenses. The press co-operation office, very interestingly, is scheduled for travel costs of 500 000 dinars, suddenly rebalance travel costs of 6.5 million dinars. Services contracted 6.5m dinars with the 2006 budget, a budget rebalance, according to a co-worker, that brilliant budget rebalance for 2006, service under the 173m dinar contract. From 6.5 to 173. Only one million and 400,000 euros more for the Press Co-operation Office, the rebalance, that brilliant budget rebalance for 2006. I do this with all the attention, with all the motivation and other colleagues and colleagues maybe, are smarter and better than me, probably, but we haven't been able to figure out the point of that quality when only for the Media Office, for travel costs the budget rebalancing defines a million and 400,000 euros more. But I guess that's good rebalancing, that's good business. I can't even figure it out, even though I'm not an economist for budget rebalancing is done when changing income, or when changing the spending side. The budget rebalancing is done when the cost structure changes more than 10%, I do not see in this bill that the revenue side is changing, nor that the spending side is changing the structure of the torsks more than 10%, but someone here and in the hall, and in the central hall, spoke only to be against politics and against Alexander Vukic and against the Government, this is the budget rebalance. This isn't budget rebalance. This is not a budget rebalance, this is a measure that the government has managed to save through domestic quality, fair business. We have to pay your interest, your loans you took on the hand and the commercial banks just to pay off what you could pay off. In order to pay for that castle Heterland for which it is, nearly a million euros were spent, and that children with developmental disturbances, I apologize if I use the wrong expression, but I think that, and thank a colleague who says it's okay now, but I think it would be fine if that money wasn't stolen, but that he served to make that facility do. This way we only got the mornings, we just got the destroyed objects, we got nothing, and the money was spent. There are some things I can't support. Things have been said, I'll quote - we don't even know the number of people who are going to get this help. It's a bit symptomatic when the chairman of the Committee on Education at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia doesn't know the number of people employed in education, so he doesn't know what number of people will get this help and these funds. That's sad, that's more of a commitment to the work we're doing. But by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an amendment that was my pleasure to sign it and with one thanks because the government accepted and supported the amendment, these funds of 7,000 dinars will be given to all the employees in education. He will receive primary education staff, secondary education, student standard, higher education staff and student staff, as part of the student standard. Those 7,000 dinars are linear for all those employed in education. That's for 7,000 more than the help that those who criticized and these 7,000 dinars gave them, it's so much higher. I look forward to the words of Mr. Vujovic and the announcements of Mr. Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister, that this is one step, the first step, and that in the future we will rejoice much more, we will celebrate victory than we will celebrate defeats. That we will also be able to talk in the future about the increase, but that will be based on reality, based on how much we've rolled up our sleeves, how much we've done, how much we've saved, not how much we've jumped out and prayed or got some help or took a loan by who knows what conditions. What is now done and what is now, this one-time aid is based on reality, not burdening future generations. One more thing that's been said. They said we don't even know when they'll get it. It's a shame. It is a shame that one law that is small, important for educational workers, but a small, two members, are not read by both members, that no explanation is even read, and in the explanation it is said - The implementation of this law has provided funds in the Republic of Serbia's 2015 budget. Which means that these funds are provided, that we need to adopt this law, and I believe that it will be Monday and there will be a day, that is, a time when educational workers will be paid for it. I know there are people in this room who say -- this is a little bit. You know, 7,000 dinars is less than 1,000 euros. Of those 1,000 euros they promised in 2008, only political points and political benefits and only to win the election then, Boris Tadic. And I did some research, so I came up with the words, Mladjan Dinkic, who then said – the reason I entered that political promise is fear that Boris Tadic could lose the presidential election scheduled for January 2008. I did not do it because of my party that did not participate in the election at all, but supported Tadic. Later analyses showed that literally the 100,000 votes he won in the second round of good works stemmed from a joint promise of free action. A joint promise of 1,000 euros. Now I know that someone wants all of this to be forgotten, to say - Puj-Pik is not valid; but those who were the loudest in this Assembly today, to deny, to humiliate, to humiliate, to lower value were just the ones who were the loudest in the 1,000-euro promises at the time. We don't tell empty stories. We're talking about things that are secure. We're talking about the steps we're going to take next week or in the coming weeks, and we're not talking about it for the political benefit and we're not talking about it because of future choices, and here we are leaving you the opportunity to break us in these elections in the rest of the way, and to everyone who happened in 2012 and here. I believe it will be much, much better than in this past time when you have either not or have barely crossed the censorship. But here, let the people of Serbia best judge. Education is, in my humble opinion, a dame who exercises the future of every country, every society, and so is the Serbian education exercise the future of our society. The most important part of education is education workers, are teachers, teachers, teachers, is that auxiliary staff, janitors, aunts, all those wonderful people who, and children, who go to school now, provide as many decent and good conditions as possible. Who among us in this room, who among us who follow this transmission doesn't remember his teacher, his teacher, his schoolmate, the other from the bench, what he first learned, some debauchery perhaps from school, some school love? Maybe that love turned out to be both marriage and family, and new children, and new students. Each of us really has one real, honest emotion towards education. The most important part of the education besides teachers, teachers, teachers, assistant staff and children. Kids, this sponge that absorbs knowledge, these people who will run tomorrow both the Parliaments and the Governments and the Ministry and the municipalities and the cities, and do ordinary other jobs. Enlightenment prepares them. I thought we were going to talk a lot deeper here today about education, about not getting out of our education system and out of school and college, people who don't know what they're learning, don't come out of my Machine College people who're only going to be interned and in the traineeship for the first time see a cnc machine, see a string for the first time. I believe that we will, I believe, also believe that we will discuss dual education, that we will be able to discuss the creation of new generations of those directions and those definitions that are needed by our society, not the fabrication of ordinary diplomas, trades or anything, that we will be able to discuss the requalification of already existing interests that have been overcome. I thought we were going to talk about how to get these pictures, the pictures that Mr. Alexander Vukic showed us, which I'm going to show you here, and I can see that a lot of people are frowning and some want to transfer that SNS is responsible for something like that. I just don't know when we've been able to cross over these three years and tear down all that nice stuff you've done? Here we have OS “8. October" in Vlasotanc. I think it's more like a playmate than a school. These are photos of OS "23. October" in Sremski Karlovci. I believe this is a locker room in the O.R., but when you take a closer look at these pictures, I don't think any of the parents would dare go in there alone, let alone let their children go. Here's the wet knot, also the 8th. October" in Vlasotanc, if you can call it a wet knot, from the damp ceiling that leaks and I'm not sure about the safety of children entering that wet knot. Take a look here at "Vozd Karajordje" OS in Jakov, moisture on all sides, and how much time children and teachers, professors, spend here. Look at "Vozd Karajordje" in Jacob, the ceiling of moisture that exists in that school is coming down. "Vuk Karadzic". Look at the looks of the school. Is this the external appearance of a school where we want to practice future generations of engineers, lawyers, doctors, and other people, other Branshees? I'm sure those who are making noise now aren't interested in these topics. The elementary school "Vuk Karadzic" in Sipa near Kladova, this is a wet knot that our children enter. Would someone come in here normal and decent? Are these the conditions, the conditions where we will raise and teach our children? I can show you a lot more photos here for Žitoraj, and for the gym in The Tower and for many others, and for the Užice, and for many other municipalities. I support the activities of local self-government. I support the activities most of all of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and everything that has been done or is being done to renovate schools. Someone smiled a little while ago, I guess a better picture like this is better than a picture of 50 high and elementary schools whose renovation started in August and will be completed by the end of this year. I confirm for two schools, two schools in my place, one elementary school, that is, the Lipova class, which is 50-60 years later, I don't know, I'm 44 years old, and ever since I was born, I've been remembering it as such, oronula and bad, now she's got a new facade and new windows and a new interior, she's got a new interior. Both Popinski fighters and many other schools. In the second stage of the tender for 80 schools is announced by the new year and the works start in spring 2016. I think we should all imagine the invitation of Alexander Vukic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can all make a small contribution, so that we can all roll up our sleeves. It's not hard to go to school, it's not hard to take a brush and a broom. It's not hard helping people turn one classroom. It is not difficult to participate in such a process. Let's make this a challenge. Let this be a challenge for each of us, to take off our ties, to take off our jackets, to fold our sleeves, and to do something concrete instead of some general criticism and debate, which often leads nowhere. Believe that we will be far happier when we see one classroom painted, when we see a little better conditions of the school "Vuk Karadzic" in Sipa and series and a series of other schools. What's important is to point out that the funds that are not small, because we need to multiply 140 and a few thousand employees in education by 7,000 dinars, so plus contributions and all that that goes as a burden on those detachments, we're going to get a figure of nearly two billion dinars. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these funds are provided from real sources, these funds are not secured from any credit or any debt, these funds will not repay yours or ours or my children. These funds are provided by one domestic, fair, responsible business of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by domestic relations with the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and can only, with the support of and with another confirmation that the SNS will support this law, to continue to work in this way and to send as many of these laws to us in the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38965	Thank you. (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. Do you think someone was mentioned? I listened carefully to Mr. Babic's exposure. (Gordana Comic, from the post: He talked about budget rebalancing in 2006. I was the only one who said... That I can't know if you're the only ones who spoke. A lot of MPs have spoken. I can't interpret it that way. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: The only thing you know is that you steal. Mr. Martinovic, please. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint, principled and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. ) Mrs. Jerkov, did he mention your name and name? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: He mentioned the chairman of the Education Committee. I'm the chairman of the Education Committee. He mentioned one of the board presidents. That's not enough. It's not enough if only the chairman of the Education Committee has been mentioned. He must mention you in a negative context and must mention your name and name. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: He said that I do not know how many employees he has in education. ) Mrs. Comic, I have referred the question to Miss Jerkov. She knows very well how to defend herself. You have no right to a replica. Mrs. Jerkov, do you consider what your function is mentioned, the chairman of the Education Committee, that it was in a negative context? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Mr Babic said – the chairman of the Education Committee does not know how many employees there are in the education. So, you want a replica now to explain how many employees there are? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38966	I want a replica, Mr. Bečić, because not knowing who will get help is not my word, but rather the words of Assistant Minister Vujovic and Assistant Minister Verbic, who are on the question – which is why the bill does not say that all employees of primary and secondary education institutions, institutions of the student standard, will receive aid of 6,000 dinars, but says that on the basis of the government's decision, the net amount of 6,000 dinars can be paid once. We are responsible for the Committee on Education that this is because not all will receive this assistance, but will first determine the criteria which will define who will receive the assistance. If it is true that help will be given to everyone, my question is – why does it not say so in the law, and why does a government decision and words interfere with the law? We have offered Mr Vujovic several opportunities to accept our amendments. Among other things, some of them define that everyone is going to get that help, and it's up to him to accept it. Don't be angry, we don't believe anything you say, because you've shown that you're people you can't trust... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38967	Looks like the microphone's responding to your inexperience. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38968	Here, Mr. Becic, I'd like to answer these words. As we trusted them on the word in 2008 when they promised those 2,000 jobs, well, you know, these are what should be trusted by the word, which promised 1000 euros of free action. There are those who need to believe the word, so many times they've lied to us, so I need to really believe the word over and over. This is a stenogram of press conference. Mr. Bečiću, at this conference for a fellow journalist who doesn't even know her name, because it's not the Board of Education, but the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, said – the DS thinks that these 6,000 dinars are an insult, we've learned about this miserable help, not everyone gets a job in education, but only those that the Government determines, we don't even know the number of people who will get this help, or when they will get it, etc. I know they're changing their minds, they're changing their heads of parliament a little bit, they're not replacing him a little bit, they're exorcising him a little bit, they're not exorcising him. I know they're changing their minds from morning to night, so they need the Prime Minister to debate with him, so when the Prime Minister came, they'd rather not talk. Some have left the session, so brave and strong. You know, behind each of us there's a written clue, as there's a written trail behind those who robbed 110, 115 million dinars on children with developmental interference, who robbed Hetherland. I would ask you to believe the word, so I might believe the word, and how many Bojan Pajtic has defined as educators? How much from the AP Vojvodina's budget of what's left of the robbery in development funds, banks and in what things, how much he's defined the funds, how much he's willing to give up these syphons to educators who work in the AP Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38969	Time. Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I have no more rights? I think after what you've caused, what you're asking is wrong. Mr. Michaelovich, come in. You have four minutes left as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38970	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to express my gratitude for the presence of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic at this meeting, because I believe that his presence and his word have been significantly complemented by what we have heard here from the honourable finance minister. It certainly was important for the quality of the debate, for understanding everything that was on the agenda and certainly for the citizens themselves. Here's a remark that we had that only guilt is being taken to the Democratic Party, not to the Socialist Party of Serbia, which was together with them in power from 2008 to 2012, I have to act on behalf of the parliamentary group, because, in fact, we at that time, from 2008 to 2012, we were unable to influence more significantly the policy course that the government had at the time, given that we really had a small number of MPs. To our satisfaction, we in the coalition with the SNS today have one full agreement and one goal that is ahead of us, which we see, which is not reached in a short time, but which will be achieved and we will certainly get to it, because we agree on all this and that is a big difference. It is easy to criticise with a demagogue approach, only for the sake of reaching political points, but it is much harder to work towards achieving its goals, set by the government. Thanks to this course, this government is really achieving in times of crisis great results through reforms, through what is an economic recovery, on one side. On the other hand, it is a diplomatic struggle for the interests of Serbia and our people in Kosovo and Metohija. I would take the opportunity to send all my congratulations on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for success at the UNESCO conference in Paris. First of all, the president of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, but also Foreign Minister and First Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, has great credit. There, and that's one example where you coordinate and coordinate on one course, and then you get results. It's important here, and through this we have seen, that we actually have well-run, consolidated and controlled finances today, which provide one certainty in the next period. Accepting such a concept is an assumption of Serbia's further progress and certainly new increases in education wages, but not only in education, but also in other areas. Finally, once again, to say that certainly what is our agreed and common policy, we will be happy to support this law and all others that lead to Serbia's progress and the recovery of its economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38971	Thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38972	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, during this discussion, I listened to everything and everything. It seems to me that certain political parties do not want to accept the responsibility of why our current state of education is like this, and that of the political parties of the former regime. I will remind you how all the governments of the Republic of Serbia functioned from 2001 to 2012. And that kind of government has led us into this situation that now instead of talking about reformed society and how we're going to make an excellent production and economy even better, we're talking about helping people in education and austerity measures. By 2012, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not exist. There were ministers, who considered their portfolio their private property and, based on the number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, calculated, exercised power and blackmailed other members of the government. So the Minister of Education, in order to raise the salary to the educators, said - if I don't get the funds, my MPs will no longer vote for the law. So the health minister said the same thing. So the minister in charge of work, martial arts and social affairs spoke – if there is no increase in pensions, my MPs will not support the government of the Republic of Serbia. And what did the Government of the Republic of Serbia create? The government of the Republic of Serbia was created on a flow water heater of individual ministers in the government, who were unmistakably, to court the electoral body, indemnify the economy. And instead of the government of the Republic of Serbia dealing with economic issues and economic development, from which they would finance profits in education, health care, the military, the police, they were dealing with loans. I was most surprised by one big political party, then a big party, now struggling to survive on a political scene, with hundreds of MPs -- allowing it to be blackmailed. Why? It'll have to herself she'll give an answer to something like that. But worst of all, I don't think she was blackmailed just by the ministers who were in that government, but she was also blackmailed by tycoons she was doing favors for when she was in power. That was the time when 400,000 people were out of work. That was the period when we went dizzy into an ambis called public debt. It was the period when it had to last for four years, at any cost, because someone was afraid of a choice. It was the period when you replaced and humiliated one finance minister who wanted to reform Serbian finances, I mean Diana Dragutinovic, so that you could fulfill the wishes of the tycoons. That's funny to you, I don't. Because if you were right, you'd tear up that government and that Assembly and go to the polls. What's the problem? Because the coalition doesn't work? Call the election, come out and let's all measure ourselves. You didn't like it. You shouldn't have. And then don't tell me you had good intentions. You didn't, because you defended the power of your hand, one, two, three, four chairs and destroyed 10 million people. So now we are discussing not how to make our economy even more competitive, to be a leading country in the region after economic development, but to discuss, in the first place, the austerity measures, the public debt and how this government has succeeded, after a series of empires, small ministries, to be unique, to achieve the result and to make some of the earned, first time, to help. It's the beginning of these changes we're talking about. You can't live on loans. You can't live on illusions. Try it at home, put your houses and your estates on mortgage to travel around the world. You won't? Then why did you do it with Serbia? That's funny to you, I don't. I don't have a spare homeland. I don't have a spare or a city. I don't have anything spare. That's why I don't think it's funny. I'm just sad that I took part in all this, even though I was saying that we would eventually get to this result. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support the law. Because for the first time in Serbia, after many years, no money has been printed to pay for something, no loans have been raised to pay for something. It is earned from the economy and however modest it may be – it is ours. In that nation, a sparrow is better in his hand than a dove on a branch. At least it's ours, and we're going to start slowly to sort out society, edit it, and in not so many years, our citizens will be satisfied. When all this changes and, as the prime minister said, let the other majority lead the government of the Republic of Serbia, not only will we leave them a state arranged, but they will be relieved to talk about what we did, what you did. I think that court that you've been doing is the most frightening thing you've ever done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38973	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Since no word has been reported on the list of MPs' groups. I'm sorry, since we used this right under article 96, I'm concluding a joint principled, unique search. I am moving to agenda item 4 - Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your participation in today's session. You and your associates, I thank you again. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they haven't already done so, to report immediately. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (No) Since we do not have a list of registered parliamentary groups, pursuant to Article 98(4). I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens. You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. Before opening a single search, I remind you of article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they haven't already done so, to report immediately. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Zoran Babic, president of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38974	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the institution of the Protector of Citizens is a young institution in our society. On 5 November 2007, the National Assembly decided to give its consent to the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Civil Protection Professional Service. This Regulation systematises 50 jobs with a total of 59 civil servants in place and in executive posts and four tenants. With this flow of time, since 2007 since 5 November 2007, and we've been in the sixth year, some things have changed in our society. The work of the Citizens' Protector has changed, understanding among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, more cases, and what the Civil Protection Service has done has expanded. I also support what statistics are from 2014, which is that 91 is almost 92% of all suggestions of the Citizens' Protectors that the competent state authorities have accepted and done according to them, which speaks of respect for the institution itself and understanding the institution itself of the Protectors of Citizens. I think by that statistics we are as a society among the first in Europe. Someone on the other hand sees that it's an increased number of objects, I don't see that anything's wrong with that, because it took some time to figure out the value itself, the institution itself in the right way. What is why it is necessary to adopt the new systemisation proposed by the Citizens' Protector, the Administrative Committee unanimously adopted, there are several reasons, I will try to tax you that it is necessary to systemise the necessary jobs to work in the offices of the educated local offices of the Citizens' Protectors in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. They are not systematised by existing systematisation and a new systematisation needs to be envisaged in which these jobs will be systematised. The second reason why this systematisation should be accepted is the increase in the scope of international co-operation of the Guardians of Citizens and its extended competences established by the law supplementing the Act on the ratification of the Action Protocol, with the Convention against Tortres and other cruel non-human or humiliating penalties and procedures which have been laid down by the Citizens' Protector to carry out the tasks of the national torture prevention mechanism. It is also important to note the role of citizens' protectors in the process of European integration which significantly activates the competence of citizens' protectors through participation in Stabilisation and Association Agreement groups, as well as its obligation to prepare opinions in various chapters. The Citizens' Protector has also been accredited as a national institution for the protection and improvement of human rights with A status for the period from 2012-2015 by the International Co-ordination Committee and the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. The proposal for the adoption of a new regulation next to that also came as a result of better consideration of the needs of this authority after seven years of its work, increasing the number of complaints of citizens over 30% annually, also by the action plan and by implementing the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013-2018. I will remind you that as a society, even in the period between 2010 and 2013, we did not have a adopted National Anti-Corruption Strategy, thus showing the importance of fighting corruption, namely that the former regime was almost nurtured by corruption. In the fourth area of anti-corruption prevention, measures have been put in place to extend and specify the responsibilities of the Citizens' Protectors, as well as to strengthen the human resources of the Citizens' Protectors. The Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for 2015-2016 provides for the strengthening of the capacity of the professional service of the Citizens' Protector by adopting a Regulation on the organisation and systematisation of jobs in the professional service of the Citizens' Protector under the consent of the National Assembly, which will provide for the necessary number and structure of employees to carry out their tasks effectively under its jurisdiction. For these reasons, the new Regulation provides for a total of 76 jobs with 106 civil servants and deputies, of which six civil servants are in office, 95 civil servants in executive jobs, of which four employees are in the business of the national torture prevention mechanism and five deputies whose jobs are composed of accompanying technical services, which is the necessary number of performers for the professional and timely performance of the tasks of the Civil Protection Officer. Compared to the current state of the employed persons in the professional service of the Citizens' Protector 77, the new Regulation provides for an increase in the total number of employees for 28 perpetrators, whose employment will take place in succession and for whom funds are planned in the Republic of Serbia's budget. For all things said, I'm going to ask you to give us consent in the day of the vote to systematize our jobs with the Citizens' Protectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-12-0.u38975	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we don't have anyone on the discussion list, I'm concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for this decision in the voting day. We're done with today's work. Continuing Monday at 10:00 p.m., after a discussion in detail. Thank you.
