ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23357	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Gordana Comic, Olgica Batic, Susana Spasojevic. We continue the joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in point 1. The 2nd and 3rd agenda. There is a word in the order of the messengers of the people of Nevenka Milosevic, and let the people's letter of Adrian Anastas be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection with Associates, Honorable fellow Members of the People, citizens of Serbia who are watching today's work, three important environmental laws are in front of us today, and we all agreed in yesterday's debate that this is an extremely important area for the lives of Serbian citizens, for their health, and our country's biggest and most valuable resource is citizens and their health. This area is important for many other reasons, because it is one big potential chance, Serbia's development opportunity, and it is also important for our further European path to Serbia. We heard a lot yesterday, a lot of environmental problems and environmental protection, but I would say that neither this ministry nor the previous ministry led to these problems. It is precisely those of the former regime who criticised the work of the ministry yesterday and the work of this government, and this government and this ministry have serious intentions to responsibly, committed, seriously change the laws to finally solve the accumulated problems in this area. Yesterday we heard very precise arguments and explanations, first of all from the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, but also from all the speakers who spoke before me in yesterday's debate. Today, I will take another look at all three amendments and additions to environmental laws. The first of these laws is the law on the amendment and addition of the Chemical Act. These amendments primarily refer to the system of charging via taxis, and that is one new principle. This is the need to comply with these provisions with the Budgetary System Act and with certain EU regulations and laws. We're trying to manage chemicals right now, the costs are borne by just the ones benefiting from chemical trafficking. These are certain economic operators, certain entrepreneurs benefiting, and not only that these costs are related and burdensome to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to the burden of our citizens. What else is a fundamental change in this law is inspection. With these changes, we will have a much more effective inspection and three areas of inspection supervision. It is an inspection of environmental areas, sanitary inspection and market inspection. In the current law, we had no precise distinction on what the jurisdiction of these inspections was. With these additions to the law, we will have a precise distinction on what the competencies of these inspections are and that is a benefit for the citizens of our Republic of Serbia. It will do us good to manage the use of chemicals in the right way, and we all know how polluted both land and water and air are today, and this puts our citizens' health at risk. I'm potentialing this opportunity as an educational worker for education, because education is very important in this area, not only about this law, but in the protection of the environment at all, because we have to deal in time from the age of little children in order to develop environmental awareness. I know that in younger classes there are subjects dealing with environmental issues such as "The Guardians of Nature" an electoral object, and then mandatory items such as "The World around Us", such as "Knowledge of Nature". I think certain difficulties are that at a later age, later age it is missing somewhere, in older age, in secondary education, in higher education. This calls for better co-operation between this ministry and the Ministry of Education. The second law, other amendments on the agenda today, relate to amendments and additions to the Biocidal Products Act. This law brings us serious environmental protection, as well as the health of our citizens and provides for the transport of these products with EU countries, as well as with all other countries. And here, as in previous law, we have a distinction between the jurisdiction of inspections, with the fact that in biocidal products next to the sanitary inspection, the market and those in charge of the environment, we also have veterinary surveillance, veterinary inspection. The third law we are talking about today in the Assembly is an amendment to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. The aim of this law is to coordinate certain problems in practice with the relevant legislation. The aim is to ensure the work of new plants and after the trial work until an integrated authorisation has been issued. What is important is that this deadline of 240 days after the trial is one condition that is very important, that all environmental pollution measurements are within those limits and those prescribed values. Another deadline envisioning this amendment and supplementing the law is the deadline for integrated plant permits and all activities to be issued by 31 December 2020. I would take this opportunity to appeal to the general public, to the resolute ministry, to a serious problem of violating environmental pollution from my environment. In fact, it's a once-great giant wood industry, it's a Ivanjica "Spik". Today, citizens have major problems regarding environmental pollution. Once a great giant who hired several thousand workers, business very successfully today is a privatisation failure, such as many in Serbia. For less than 100 workers, hectares are empty, halls are empty. This good former government has allowed both machines and machines to be cut and sold into old iron, but this is not the topic of today's debate. I'll draw attention to what it is to appeal to citizens, whose name I'm talking about, their problems with environmental pollution. Under number one, it's noise, first of all, and in the night conditions. All the measurements that have been carried out so far have been carried out beyond those limits. Local self-government and myself were involved so far, while I was acting as SO President in Ivanjica, however, there was no result. The other problem is air pollution. These are dangerous, tiny particles. There is also a formaldehyde that falls on houses, destroys ticks, facades, cars, but, worst of all, eats and destroys the health of people in the immediate environment, but not only in the immediate environment, but also much wider. The third problem is the storage of waste from this factory, which is uncommon in the nearby river, where sawdust and other waste are stored. The fourth problem is the existence of a pirate in a transfo station today, which, I would say, is a potential danger for citizens, and there are certain suggestions for citizens that there has also been an spilling of the oven. Not to go further into analysis, I think that's enough reasons for the Ministry to get involved more seriously in solving this problem and finally having this problem solved. There have been some embezzlements and manipulations in this company, and so far the director is the manager of this company, and from almost the former manager, so I hope with a new personal solution that will affect it, and I am offering you my personal activity and engagement that all together, means, and this company, the company and local self-government, the competent ministry, as soon as we organise a meeting, and I believe that we can solve the problem, if in the right way, we write down the right measures and uniforms on a certain deadline. If it's not respected, you know what's next. None of the citizens want the company abandoned and the workers lost their jobs these days. Their wish is for many more workers to work, but, please, if we want the country to Serbia and our municipalities, safe for the lives of citizens, then the law must certainly be respected. We, all MPs, are here to solve citizens' problems, to make good laws, which not only need to be passed, but should also be respected. Their application should be respected. Finally, I want the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment to succeed in the work, and I call on all Members of the People to vote in the Day of Vote, given the extremely important area, give our vote for all three amendments to the laws in the field of the environment, but not just these laws, but also the protocols and agreements that we are about to discuss. I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23359	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. The word is a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23360	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, respected citizens of Serbia, faces us today several laws in the field of the environment and as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, I must say that I strongly support these amendments of the law and that I would like to thank the minister first and foremost, but also State Secretary Stanj Bozovic and experts on their interpretations and clarifications during the regular committee sessions, when talking about these topics. When we talk about the first law, the bill on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act, I must say that this bill does not touch the fundamental solutions given in the law, but the proposed amendments and additions provide for the payment of fees for procedures conducted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, subject to the requirements in the field of chemical transport, in accordance with European regulations, therefore, compliance with European standards. The costs of the proceedings will be borne by legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs who benefit from the marketing of chemicals and will not be at the expense of the state. Also, as the previous colleague pointed out, we have a distinction between inspection services, i.e. The competences of three inspections and we prevent the chaotic situation that was in the previous period, and now we distinguish and jurisdiction for better and more effective work in the framework of inspection supervision. The draft law proposes the establishment of a common body for the purpose of planning, monitoring, coordinating and taking joint measures and activities to implement this Bill, mutual co-operation, including inspection and training of competent inspections. What has not been said, and there has been a speech on the abolition of the Chemicals Agency, is that at the session of the Committee on Environmental Protection, it has been stressed that the Department for Biocidal Products and Chemicals has been formed in which six inspectors work. At a regular session of the Committee, representatives of the Ministry stressed that Division is extremely professional and that personnel are taken over from the former Chemicals Agency, so that the Biocidal Products and Chemicals Department together with the Major Chemical Accidents Department is one of the most qualitative inspections in the region. By adopting this bill, we will improve the chemical management system, solve the long-term problem of the jurisdiction of inspections, and thus improve environmental protection and human health care, which is also the most important objective of this bill. The following proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act is amended in a similar way. Therefore, compliance with the specific Chemical Act because the termination of the work of the Chemicals Agency has been entrusted with certain tasks relating to the management of biocidal products, the jurisdiction has been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. Also, for the sake of the alignment and suspension of the Chemicals Agency, the fees paid by the Agency are lifted and the fees to be incurred by the RS revenue are prescribed instead. Part of the cost of managing biocidal products will also be borne by persons who have been trafficked since they were placed on the market. This proposal for a law also specified the supervision of the application of the law and specified the authority of the inspector in the exercise of inspection supervision. Last and certainly one of the most important laws, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution is very important and its changes show how the Government promotes environmental policy. The reasons for the amendments and additions of the Integrated Prevention and Control Act are – the harmonisation of the provisions of the laws relating to the start of work of the facility, which are obliged to obtain an integrated authorisation in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, enabling operators to submit an orderly request for obtaining an integrated authorisation, as well as to provide the competent authority with an appropriate degree of dynamics of resolution under the submitted requirements for the issue of an integrated authorisation. The period for issuing the licence is subject to the current 2015 Act, and the amendments and amendments to the Law extend this period until 2020. In this way, certain plants may start working before obtaining an integrated permit if during the test run, the results of measurement of environmental pollution are consistent with the prescribed values. The aim of this law is not to stop the facilities, to reject requests, but to meet them to supplement the facilities and correct the requirements in order to obtain permits. Applying the best available techniques requires large investments in existing facilities and no EU country has rejected the requirements, but it has been a matter of getting them all. In addition to the request, a key missing document is a programme of measures to be taken in the facilities to comply with European standards. Each authorisation shall include information on how much money will be invested, whether the appropriate measure and the permit itself implies transitional periods for the implementation of these measures. A large number of companies that make huge profits at the same time pollute the environment, do not invest funds to resolve the problem, so a control mechanism needs to be set up. The new directive is very demanding even for EU members and therefore also for our country. The goal of the ministry and the government is not to close or undo Serbia's industry but to encourage it. As a result, there will be transition periods under strictly defined conditions and deadlines to meet all requirements and conditions for work. I call on all MPs in voting day to support these bill proposals, and I will certainly do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23361	The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković, and let the National MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs Stojiljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23362	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we continue the debate on the very important three laws in the field of environmental protection. I hope this is the beginning and we have a lot more quality laws ahead of us. Also, as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, I hope that we are finally starting at an intense pace to approach and open Chapter 27, so I would like to make a contribution to that, of course, with you. Today we continue to discuss in principle these three laws that are closely related to the area of environmental protection. Amendments and additions to the first two laws, the Chemical Act and the Biocidal Products Act are primarily the result of the harmonisation of these laws with the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia. Then, the alignment with the decision to cease the existence of the Chemicals Agency and their mutual alignment. Both of these laws deal with the integrated register of biocidal chemicals, imports, exports of dangerous chemicals of biocidal products, restrictions, prohibitions, then classification, packaging, labelling of particularly dangerous chemicals and biocidal products. First of all, just for citizens to point out that chemicals are a substance of a mixture, and biocidal products are the means to destroy living and unwanted living organisms. As for the amendment and addition of the Chemical Act, therefore, as we have heard several times, I will briefly repeat, a specification of the payment of taxis with a desire not to burden administrative management on citizens of Serbia has been made but to be taken over by the one who puts chemicals on the market and the one who makes the profit. Therefore, payment bonds are a producer, importer, exporter and further user of chemicals. What's very important is doing inspection surveillance more effectively. Therefore, clear competences have been shared between inspections in the areas of environmental protection, sanitary inspection and market surveillance. As far as the Biocidal Products Act is concerned, changes are similar. What is very important is that the policy of governance is not fundamentally changed, and we have heard several times that there is no public debate. This is precisely the reason why the fundamental law does not change, so the changes relate to changes in jurisdiction, what was now in the jurisdiction of the Chemical Agency is now becoming the responsibility of the ministry. I'd like to make those remarks about shutting down the Chemicals Agency that we were listening to yesterday, just to say that that shut down of the Agency doesn't mean shutting down the strategy, shutting down the expertise, away from that. The goal was to reduce the bureaucratic apparatus because it was found that more people were in charge of the same job and it was simply taken over by professional people, as we had heard earlier, that the inspectorates were taken over by experts from the Chemicals Agency, which is for every commendation, so that the expertise was preserved. Taxes are prescribed instead of fees. This is pouring into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the jurisdiction of the inspection is also delimited here, therefore, in the areas of the environment, sanitary, veterinary and market inspection. As regards the amendment of the third law, the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, this law establishes the activities and types of facilities for which they must have such a permit or so on. IPPS Integrated Permission. Of course, we need to know that processes in the manufacturing industry cause significant emissions of harmful substances in the environment, and therefore, there are many regulations that are related to this area today, including this integrated authorisation. Therefore, plants classified in the IPPS category are potentially hazardous environmental pollutants and must have a work permit to clearly define emission limit values, and with that permission it is also going to be to use raw materials and energy to minimise it. For now, plant operators will be tasked with obtaining integrated permits. Therefore, integrated licences are applied in the energy sector, in the metal processing sector, mineral, chemical industries, waste management industries, etc. So, in the 31st subcategory, it's classy. What the requirements are integrated licences is the rational management of national resources in accordance with the principle that the polluter pays. Afterwards, action on the very source of pollution with the desire to be reduced to emission limit values, to prescribe emission limit values for certain plants, to control and reduce the risk of incidents, to save energy and raw materials, that there is a process of exchange of information between EU countries and of course informing the public about the work of a particular plant. An integrated permit, just to sum up, is a decision by the competent authority to have a particular facility authorised to operate if it is guaranteed that such a facility meets the requirements laid down by this law. As new and already existing facilities will have to obtain this license. For the sake of the public, I will only say that in 2011, although this law has been in force since 2004, in 2011, the first integrated permit was issued in Serbia for the production of cement clinker in rotational furnaces, and in 2012, it was in the province of the plant for the production of biocidal products. Therefore, of the 196 plants subject to the IPPS issue of that licence, 166 submitted a request and only ten received by the end of the previous year. I want to simply say because as a member, I listened to the reasons why it was so, not because the ministry didn't work well, far from that, the ministry invested all the power and energy to get all the facilities allowed, but most of the time they submitted incomplete requests. Therefore, this change of law goes in this direction to more clearly and more precisely define the provisions of this law so that plant operators can submit clearer and more complete requirements. The licence application simply contains many things, contains a description of installations, activities, a plan to use raw materials energy, sources, nature, quantity of emissions and much more. If the operator isn't an expert on all these areas, he'll just run into some kind of a leak somewhere. Now these changes, that is, defining the provisions, will lead to easier and clearer submissions. After the operator's request, access shall then be made to draw up a draft permit and for that it shall be provided for 120 days, up to 240 days. And, in this period, it was made, regarding this period until the license was issued, were amended in law. Therefore, the aim was to comply with the Law on Planning and Construction in order to allow for the continuity of the work of this facility that the authorisation wants. This implies a precision of the case where the plant can continue to work even until the authorisation is issued, meaning borderline with these 240 days, provided that there is all technical evidence of correctness that there is no emissions of harmful matter per environment. There are some large furnaces, when it comes to large plants, which have to be shut down, then, there is a great time for these furnaces to be reactivated and there is simply a problem with the plant. This is where the ministry comes out again to meet the facilities. As the colleague said, the ministry is aimed at allowing the facilities to operate and to revive our industry. I would also refer to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment which it has received, i.e. it has been informed that a working multi-sector group has been formed which has decided that it must be formed again and that it is necessary to form the Green Fund again. A few words I'd just like to say about it, because we heard about it yesterday, too, that this government abolished the Green Fund in 2012. Of course, that fund did not have the means of money, and for that we have concrete evidence because investment in infrastructure, access routes alongside some environmental objects does not mean that it is an investment in the environment. So there have been irregularities, of course, competent services to deal with, and what is the goal is that 10.5 billion euros needed for this ministry, i.e. to reserve the environment, to come to the ultimate goals certainly is big money for our country, and every dinar should be poured in with a view to spending it on environmental protection. The Green Fund will certainly be, the green dinar will exist again, but will be spent on purpose. There will be control, that's also the goal of this ministry and this government, and that's full support for all these laws, as I said. I would just like to point out that I also agree with all the predecessors, who mentioned the need for education of preschool children through school. I had a chance to talk to teachers, too, because I have children of that age. So they all expressed their desire to want more because children feel the need and children feel the utmost responsibility when they are given such an opportunity to control their parents. It's amazing how much they do with more fire, so I think we really need to use the kids in that sense, and that's my suggestion to think about it. Anyway, big SNS support in voter day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23363	Thank you. The word has Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, and let Milanka Jevtović-Vukojić be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23364	Thanks to the chairman, respected Minister Boskovic-Bogosavljevic, respected co-workers of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, colleagues and fellow MPs, the SNS will, of course, support all three draft laws in the voting day. Today, in my presentation, I will stick to the draft laws on amendments and additions to the chemical laws. Although it is our country's determination to mix in the economy and economic flows as little as possible with any interventionist instruments, and if the objective of the market is to function freely, in principle of supply and demand, there are areas that the legal system must be detailed and precise to regulate, so that concrete economic activity or industrial production takes place without impasses under clear and precise principles. The chemical industry and the transport of chemical products and in an indirect and direct manner affect the health of the entire population, and since it is extremely dangerous substances that can endanger the health of a larger number of people, it is necessary to regulate all situations by clear legal standards, but also to provide for adequate response and supervision of competent inspection services, I mean an inspection of environmental protection, sanitary and market inspection, in order to avoid the situation that due to the inaccurate jurisdiction of the inspection bodies, or even conflict of competences of the same, accidents whose consequences may be immeasurable. On the other hand, there was a need to finance the management of dangerous chemicals in the right way, and since part of the costs are covered by the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is necessary to specify the principles of further financing, in agreement with the principle that whoever makes profits should bear both the costs and that principle is applied in the EU as well. The amendments and additions to this Act, which was adopted in 2012, do not go too far into the essential matter of the law, but above all clarifyes and detailedly regulates certain situations, such as the basis for the payment of fees, the assessment of the justification for the use of an alternative chemical name, issue, as well as the extension of the transport authorisation, issue and extension of the authorisation for the use of particularly dangerous chemicals. Also, there was the need to comply with other regulations in our country and legal solutions, which apply to the EU, and along with the arrangement of the basis for the collection of chemical management fees and the provision of conditions for effective inspection control of chemical management, all relevant frameworks for the smooth functioning of this activity with very reduced options for any abuse and endangerment of life and the health of citizens have been provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23365	Thank you. Milanka Jevtović-Vukojićic has the word, and let MP Zarko Bogatinović be prepared. Here you are, Mrs. Jevtović-Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23366	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, has already come before us on the second day a set of laws relating to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chemicals, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act and the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. All these three laws are extremely important, primarily from the aspect of preserving human health and, of course, from the aspect of preserving the health of the environment. I believe that all these three laws, in fact the answer, are a reaction to the responsibility of the current government and the current ministry for the sake of a safer and better future, that is, for the sake of better health of the population and a better and more orderly environment. As far as the amendments and additions of the chemical law are concerned, there are already fellow MPs who have spoken quite a bit, so it is essentially not about some major changes, it is about, in fact, agreeing with European practice, that is, with the practice of EU countries, where taxes are charged by those who place chemical products on the market. In fact, taxes are charged by those who, based on the distribution of chemicals, imports and production of chemicals, generate income. Of course, these fees should be paid, not the means to issue such permits to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Except for the introduction of a tax, here in the law on amendments and additions to the laws on chemicals, I would particularly stress Article 5, which defines the amendment of the law and which, in fact, concerns the consumer, which is that it provides for a legal period within which the importer, producer and distributor is obliged to give information to the citizen about substances that belong, so-called substances that can cause concern, which is a legal deadline of 45 days. In this way the legal certainty of consumers is increased and, of course, it is achieved by precision of the deadline that reduces the uncertainty of those who need to receive accurate information, which is those substances that have a concentration greater than 0.01% in their composition. Also, I would like to cite a member of the 7th law, which refers to the entry into the chemical register. The chemical register is an extremely important database. It represents a kind of inventory and a kind of chemical signature on our market, or on the market of the Republic of Serbia. What I particularly want to point out here is that the Register of Chemicals is in fact a model for EU member states, but this bill is correcting, in fact, one legal technical correction, which is that two-stage is allowed, i.e. the solution made by the Ministry of Health is a possible complaint, and the appeal is submitted to the Government. So that's what it's like as a newspaper introduced in Article 7. A proposal for this law amending an earlier member. What I also want to point out are the permits given by your Ministry, transport permits, particularly dangerous chemical substances and permits for the use of these substances. I would especially like to emphasise the exceptional expertise of your ministry, especially the Biocidal Products and Chemicals Department. It's an extremely complex procedure. It's a process that requires extraordinary knowledge, and such knowledge is owned by that department and owned by your ministry. I would also like to point out that these amendments and amendments to the law are being made precisely to clarify and distinguish the jurisdiction of three inspections, including sanitary, inspections, environmental inspections and market inspections. This demarcation is very important because we have had some previous experience that the matter where everyone is responsible is not actually responsible. In this respect, by precise demarcation of jurisdiction and by forming and signing an agreement between the three ministries, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Trade, in one coordinated and synchronised way, activities will be planned, as well as training and subsequent acquisition of knowledge and skills, all of these three inspections, and, of course, all in order to effectively implement the law. What I still want to point out is that the job of protecting life, health and environmental protection is the work of all of us. It is the superior work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Trade, but it is also the job of all of us, starting from ourselves, and it is about the culture of life. Of course, I would also like to place a special accent on the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Education, because I deeply believe with all this that my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group stated that education of children must begin from home first, and then through preschool and school institutions and become an integral part of the education system, because environmental protection is not a matter of a single project, it is not a matter of 10 projects. Protecting the environment is a continuous process that should last daily, all in order to provide favourable conditions for the life of future generations. I also want to point out, and I hope that the sublegal acts relating to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act will be passed within the foreseen deadline, which is up to three months, because we know that the adoption and speed of sublegal acts depends on the implementation of the law. We've been witnessing that we've been making laws for some time, but no sublegal acts have been passed. These are many laws that were passed in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. Without sublegal acts, the laws remain an empty letter on paper and I expect you and that part of the job to be responsible. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act, I would like to point out that, as regards the abolition of the Chemicals Agency, as regards the profession, as regards environmental protection, no harm has been done at the expense of that. It's actually a benefit, a benefit for the citizens, a benefit for the budget, because it's a reduction in bureaucratic apparatus. With the Biocidal Products Act, I would just like to point out that, apart from these three inspections, a veterinary inspection is involved. This involves one synchronised work of all these four inspections, and also in order to preserve human health above all. As regards the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contaminants, this law is in fact a alignment with the Law on Planning and Construction and concerns new plants, which after obtaining a trial permit, that is, when it is established that environmental pollution parameters are within the limits of normal, can continue to work for 240 days until an integrated authorisation is obtained, and the old plants, that deadline is extended. He pointed out this year, 2015, and due to the complexity of the procedure itself, it was extended until 2020. On this occasion, I want to highlight an industrial object that also belonged to environmental pollutants. It is a cement factory in Koserić, which after privatisation received an integrated permit and is no longer a environmental pollutant. In voting day, the Serbian Progressive Party will support your draft laws because it is about preserving human health and preserving the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23367	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister and distinguished guests from the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management, Forestry and Environmental Protection, Honorable citizens of Serbia, I am today going to talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution. Plants belonging to categories requiring integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution are potentially serious contaminants, which is why their work is regulated by a special permit that conditions respect for emission limit values. It is particularly important to influence key aspects of sustainability of the quality of the environment, such as bringing raw materials and energy consumption to a minimum. All these facilities should obtain an integrated permit, as otherwise they face closure, which in view of investments, would mean a major economic problem in the already collapsed domestic industry. The preparation process requires permission, for integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution of one plant or plant complex is complex enough to create a number of problems, even during the preparation of the documentation for an integrated licence application. The conditions put forward by the Integrated Prevention and Control Act for environmental pollution, together with the accompanying rules and regulations, pose a real challenge to operators in order to bring their business, i.e. functioning into line with the legislation in Serbia. The EU Directive on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution often leads to difficulties when it comes to meeting conditions due to unclear definition, especially in the part of obtaining the necessary documentation for making an integrated licence, as the operator lacks other permits such as useful or watery, because the procedure for obtaining the same rather debt is a stalemate. We are all aware that processes in the manufacturing industry cause significant environmental damage missions, thanks to the development of technology, as well as the fact that many broadcast pollution components do not remain in one medium of the environment, but are transferred from one to the other, leading to an increase in interest in an increasing number of rules in the area of integrated pollution control, so that the EU's Integrated Prevention and Control Directive is a key instrument for improving sustainable production in line with the principle of sustainable development. The implementation of the Integrated Prevention and Control Law on environment pollution in 2004, along with accompanying sublegal acts, has brought up problems that look at the lack of competent staff at all levels of jurisdiction. Integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution is an integrated approach to pollution control, which implies implementation of minimum consumption of raw materials and energy, prevention or reduction of emissions in air, water and land, waste management and taking into account cross-border context. This Directive, the requirement of the Member States, the establishment of a system of authorisations, applying general principles to specific activities and requiring the facilities subject to this law to apply appropriate preventive measures. Prevention measures relate to the use of BAT, which are the best available techniques, efficient use of energy, measures to prevent incidents and reduce their effects, as well as the abandonment of additional pollution when closing such installations. An integrated authorisation shall be issued for the work of new plants for a significant change in the work of existing facilities, which have been required under the current law to obtain an integrated permit by 2015, as many colleagues have previously observed, and this amendment of the law will change and extend that deadline by the end of 2020. This will contribute greatly to adapting the facilities subject to this law to their production processes in accordance with emission limit values. The authorisation may also be exceptionally relevant to the termination of the activity, so that the period of validity of the licences cannot be longer than 10 years. The licence application shall contain a description of the installations and their activities, a plan for the use of raw materials and energy in the production process, sources, nature and quantity of emissions, significant effects of emissions for the environment of the proposed technology and techniques to prevent emission reduction for prevention and recovery of waste and emission monitoring measures. Since the use of the permit precedes the building permit, we had cases that the existing facility, where manufacturing processes are now taking place, were up to 100 years old, that reconstruction, construction or re-use was carried out, that no complete documentation was obtained in the privatisation process and that it would be necessary to do a project of a project carried out and enter into the legalisation process of the facility, and then it was found that neither property-legal relations were resolved on any of the cadastrian plots. Any number of activities require additional financial resources, as well as an additional time limit. Finally, the essence of the Integrated Prevention and Control Act lies in the interest of large contaminants being placed under control, which will be rigorous and regular, as the authorisation granted is subject to re-assessing at least twice during the period of validity and may be multiple times at the request of the competent authority or operator. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on integrated pollution prevention by reason refers to the start of the operation of the facility which is obliged to obtain an integrated authorisation with the Law on Planning and Construction, in order to allow continuity in the operation of the plant. Accordingly, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law is a favourable signal for operators, because it defines more precisely the provisions of this law and thus facilitates the making of an integrated authorisation request for operators and allows operators to submit an orderly request by obtaining and completing documentation that applies to the request by one, while, on the other hand, providing the competent authority with an appropriate degree of dynamics of resolution under the submitted requirements for the issue of an integrated authorisation, thereby thus providing a rational and justified time frame of authorisation. Finally, the dynamics of issuing an integrated authorisation are specified, according to which all eligible facilities will be authorised by 31 December 2020 at the latest. The longer period for issuing an integrated authorisation is fully justified after the status of the candidate of the Republic of Serbia for EU membership, i.e. the upcoming negotiations with the EU from the point of view of getting a longer period to adapt the existing plants to the requirements of the directive. The answer to a part of the above issues lies precisely in the abovementioned solutions, in the draft of the law, in amendments and additions to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, so that the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23369	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23370	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister with associates, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, today we have three very important draft laws on the agenda, which are of paramount importance because they regulate the transport of chemicals and the protection of the environment in line with EU regulations. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, I will refer to several members in my presentation. First of all, Article 7. The draft law stipulates that the registration of chemicals into the chemical register is subject to the payment of the Republic's administrative tax by the producer, importer or further user. The existence of a chemical database will allow for timely response in the process of negotiations for Serbia's EU accession, with a view to providing transition periods for the registration of chemicals produced in Serbia in accordance with the requirements of the European Parliament and the Council of the European Community regulation. Article 9 of this Act stipulates that the professional assessment of the information supplied by the exporter for the purpose of carrying out the previous notification is also subject to the payment of the tax. This is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia under the Rotterdam Convention on the process of granting consent based on a prior notification of certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade and transit of these chemicals across certain countries. What is extremely important, and what my colleagues have already mentioned several times is that legal entities and entrepreneurs will have to obtain a license to carry out the activity of transport particularly dangerous chemicals, and natural persons will have to use these chemicals. Getting these permits is necessary in order to avoid illicit distribution of the most dangerous chemicals. The period of validity of this authorisation shall be five years. What is very significant is that the costs of obtaining these permits will be borne by persons who are from their traffic, i.e. The use of profits is achieved and therefore the cost of issuing these permits is not passed on to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Article 16 of this Act provides that environmental inspectors and sanitary inspectors may conduct sampling and preliminary control of the contents of chemicals and products in order to determine whether the conditions for placing on the market are met, i.e. for the use of these chemicals and products. Therefore, the objective of the amendments to all three of these draft laws is to ensure continued financing of chemical and biocidal management through the introduction of taxis, more effective inspection controls, and to better regulate and facilitate the issue of integrated environmental permits in industrial plants. Amendments to the Chemical and Biocidal Products Act have been made to respect the principle that those who place chemicals and biocidal products on the market must bear the burden of management, while through a more precise division of operations, inspections from several ministries will allow for better control of these areas. The aim of the amendment of the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contaminants is to align the provisions relating to the start of work of the facility which are obliged to obtain an integrated authorisation with the Law on Planning and Construction. This paper changes the dynamics of solving and issuing industrial facilities of integrated environmental permits, which will be extended from 2015 to 2020. I consider these changes very good and very important and I think they show the government's desire and the competent ministry to improve the environment in line with EU standards. Of course, the SNS will be happy to accept these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23371	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23372	Thank you. Dear Minister Bogosavljevic with his associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a united debate on the area of environmental protection, and I will look at the amendments and additions of the Biocidal Products Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the context of my presentation. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is found in the provision of Article 97 point 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia improves and provides a system for protecting and improving the environment. The Biocidal Products Act was adopted in 2009 in the set of so-called green laws and has undergone changes in 2010 and 2011, and has introduced a single system of placing on the market and use of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This system has been introduced in the process of harmonising domestic legislation with European Union regulations, while ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment, as well as improving the transport of biocidal products with the countries of the European Union and other countries. In 2009, the Chemical Law was also adopted, when the Chemicals Agency was established. The Law amending the 2012 Chemical Act has been deleted from the Agency’s jurisdiction, i.e. it is prescribed that the Chemicals Agency ceases its work on 29 September 2012. Certain provisions of the Biocidal Products Act concerned the work of the Chemicals Agency, which was, meanwhile, abolished. Thus, the reasons for the adoption of the law are set out in the need for the harmonisation of the Biocidal Products Act with other system laws, which are regulated by the budgetary system i.e. The law on the budget system of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the way taxis are introduced and prescribed, as well as their height. The aim of the adoption of this law is to comply with the Chemical Act, namely the Decision on the termination of the validity of the Chemicals Agency and the takeover of competences in the field of the management of biocidal products by the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. As we were able to see in the reasoning of the legislators of this law, explanations of basic legal institutes and individual solutions have been given, i.e. a termological alignment with the last amendments to the Chemical Act and the decision to suspend the validity of the Decision establishing the Chemicals Agency. The fees that were the sole revenue of the Chemicals Agency have also been deleted. To implement this law, which is very important, no additional funding is needed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it has provided funds to carry out the operations of the management of biocidal products. Efficient performance of jobs in this area has been ensured by the acquisition of jobs of the Agency for Chemicals, the means of work, as well as the transition of employees to the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. The draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act does not address the essential solutions given in the Biocidal Products Act, but changes primarily relate to changes in jurisdiction in the field of the management of biocidal products. In addition, instead of earlier fees made by the Chemicals Agency, the revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget has been prescribed, and some of the benefits previously established have been abolished. This law does not deviate from a solution in European regulations. The relevant law does not restrict the jurisdiction of environmental inspection, sanitary inspection, veterinary inspection, market inspections in the exercise of inspection controls on the management of biocidal products. Also, according to an existing legal solution, these ministries are intended to educate the common body by means of an agreement to carry out inspection tasks, and in accordance with the regulations governing the state administration. So far, the practice of this institute has shown that it is ineffective because of the lack of division of competence and that it requires a precise division of the jurisdiction of the inspection in the field of environmental protection, sanitary, veterinary and market inspections. In order to monitor the application of the provisions, the existence of a common body is necessary in order to coordinate and take measures and activities to be taken in order to implement the law. Also, those inspections, in order to adequately and effectively control the application of the prescribed provisions, must undergo joint training. In view of the fact that the fees prescribed by this law were the revenues of the Chemicals Agency, it is necessary to agree with the fact that the Chemical Agency has been abolished, as well as to comply with the Law on the Budgetary System and the Biocidal Products Act, delete the fees and prescribe, instead, the fees for the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In this respect, the law will have a positive impact on the independence of the conduct of biocidal product management operations, and on the organisational forms of state administration to which the Law on State Administration applies without entrusting the affairs of the state administration to other legal entities, public agencies. The work of inspection services, inspections in the field of environmental protection, sanitary, veterinary and market inspections, in the exercise of inspection supervision, the demarcation of the jurisdiction of four inspections shall ensure a clear division of jurisdiction, i.e. the authority of the inspector in carrying out inspection controls. Given that the suspension of the compensation, which was the income of the Chemicals Agency and the regulation of the fees that are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is disbursed by the fact that part of the costs of the management of biocidal products are borne by persons who profit from the marketing of biocidal products. The projection of expected revenues on this basis will depend on both the level of the tax on the implementation of the Biocidal Products Act, which will be prescribed and on which administrative procedures will be applied and the number of these requirements. The application of this law does not entail additional costs for citizens, businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, as it does not introduce new obligations in relation to obligations prescribed by the applicable Biocidal Products Act. In addition, in some of the procedures for which compensation had previously been provided for by this law, they are deleted, so that this law reduces the financial burden on legal entities involved in the production, i.e. the transport of biocidal products. The effects of the adoption of this law justify the costs of its application, since its adoption provides for the necessary systematic, legal and institutional alignment with previously adopted regulations, i.e. more effective, more rational and economic satisfaction of the purpose of performing public administration tasks, i.e. the exercise of public powers that the Chemical Agency has so far had. As mentioned earlier, the public debate on this law has not been implemented, given that this law only complies with relevant system laws - the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chemicals and the Law on the Budgetary System. Also, what the amendments and additions of this law suggest is the adoption of an emergency procedure and in accordance with the provision of Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, given that the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for the efficient operation of bodies and organisations in the operations of the management of biocidal products, and thus lead to an uncompetitive position of domestic economy in relation to EU countries. In view of the fact that the basic Biocidal Products Act of the Chemicals Agency was the power to implement this law and that it ceased to operate on 29 September 2012, thus providing legislative, organisational, institutional and other conditions necessary for the functioning of the biocidal product management system in the Republic of Serbia. The attached can conclude savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget, the abolition of the Chemicals Agency, as well as a new inflow based on taxi payments, so I commend the work of the restoring ministry. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the proposal, both this and the other two environmental laws in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23373	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Mr. Birmancevic isn't here. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23374	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, today we are discussing a set of laws that are fundamentally aimed at protecting and improving our environment. When it comes to the bill on amendments and additions to the Biocidal Products Act, what is most important here, it means that it is not about any cruel changes, it is more about harmonising with the latest changes made to the Chemical Act, more specifically about the abolition of the Chemicals Agency. In fact, it was necessary to make these changes and additions to avoid certain formal legal problems that so far existed in the functioning of these laws. Otherwise, as the existing Biocidal Products Act continues to recognise the Chemicals Agency as an organ that exists even though it no longer exists, it was necessary to bring these two laws into line in order to function properly. After the adoption of the Ministry Act, all jobs once carried out by the Chemical Agency are now carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. The proposed changes and additions to all revenues, i.e. all fees that were once the income of the chemical agency instead of those fees, are now being paid the fees to go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is more than positive and the same when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, what I would point out, which is news and which is very good, is that, from now on, part of the costs for managing biocidal products will be borne by those entities who, from placing them on the market, benefit from the production of the same ones, make a profit, which is, of course, more than logical that those who make the benefit and profit from something participates in paying the same, so that this will have a very positive impact on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, by disbursing it. And what I would also like to point out is that by applying this law, there will be no additional costs for citizens or for the economy, either, which is very important for both small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary. There will be even financial discharge of producers, i.e. by placing biocidal products on the market, by the fact that some of the fees that have existed so far will be abolished, and a certain number of fees will be abolished. Then, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution, what is most important about this law is that it systematically regulates the issue of an integrated authorisation, both for existing and new businesses. What is the basic goal here, which is actually to overcome this time vacuum that exists, which as such represents one major problem for the operation of the plant, means that it exceeds that time period that exists from the issue of an administrative permit, means, from the moment, if, of course, the applicable permit from the moment of trial has proved to be all right. A valid permit is granted, because under the existing law, there is still 240 days to wait for an integrated permit, and according to the existing law, the facility can only start working after they get an integrated permit, and that one time period is unnecessary waste and time and money for these plants, which is inadmissible. These changes and additions change, so that future facilities will be able to operate during that time period, if the Commission assesses during the trial work that all conditions have been satisfactory, that is, everything is in compliance with the regulations. I think this shift is very good, that it allows people to work uninterruptedly. I also believe that something like this will create legal security conditions, which I am sure will attract foreign investors, which will again mean new jobs for our citizens, which is the strategic goal of this government. The proposed amendments and additions to all the three laws are of great quality, although it is repeatedly pointed out that it is not about some crucial changes, I believe it will make a significant contribution to the effective application of all laws in practice, which shows in the best possible way the real concern and responsibility of the restoring ministry, both for the preservation of human health and for the improvement of the environment. So all the proposed changes and additions in the voting day will, of course, be supported by the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23375	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23376	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, is ahead of us a set of amendments and additions to the law, and I will talk in short lines about amendments and additions to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution. Increased activities in the economy impose the need to organize, in parallel with their dynamics, areas that monitor such activities. The economy and market are a living organism that operates according to its principles and legality, so any administrative inconsistencies can cause unnecessary costs and congestion. It is therefore necessary to allow production and market cycles to take place without disturbance, taking into account the protection of the interests of the entire population, through several different segments, and in this case specifically through the protection of the environment. At the same time, the objective of amending and supplementing this law is to regulate administrative procedures that will simplify work and reduce the costs of operators on a specific market, but also to protect the general good and health of the population through environmental protection measures. According to existing legal solutions, the release into operation of certain production or research facilities and obtaining a permanent work permit is prescribed to be suspended after the test work and analysis of the effects until the competent state authorities have determined whether the entity, having regard to all relevant results and parameters, can continue to work after obtaining the authorisation, or whether it will obtain a further work permit at all. This further means that all activities undertaken until then must be suspended until the decision of the administrative authorities, and the fact is that quite often the restart of the re-production or operation of the plant has been made with an additional one has proved to be unnecessary costs on the part of the operators. It is precisely amendments and additions to this law that aim to ensure the smooth work of operators and to reduce unnecessary costs due to interruption of production or research activities, but that this is not at the heart of the general interests and the threat of the environment as a general good. Having all these amendments and additions to this law, I will repeat what my colleagues have said, the SNS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23377	The word has been made by MP Alexander Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23378	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, gentlemen of the ministry, honourable fellow MPs, we today have three important environmental laws, and as a doctor, I can really say that the adoption of these laws and compliance with EU regulations is something that is of great importance to our country. I'll tell you first about the Chemical Act, it's a new way of managing chemicals in a unique way. What's most important is that from this law, those who have profit will bear the costs. This is of paramount importance for the Republic of Serbia's budget, as this will also fill the budget in a quality and adequate way. The Biocidal Products Act introduced a unique system of placing on the market and the use of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This system has been introduced in the process of harmonising domestic legislation with EU rules and, together with the law on integration, prevention, control of pollution and environmental protection, are doing something that is of great importance to our country. When we put them together in one continent and talk about protecting the environment, as the Minister said yesterday that there was an extremely difficult year behind us, just to mention the floods, we can say that we all have to fight together to protect the environment. These three laws speak of inspection oversight having its meaning. First of all, I mean the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and others, but I think the greatest burden will be the veterinary inspection, and I'm glad there are people here from the Veterinary Authority. The Sabbath, the city I came from, was saved last year. We all know what the Zorka chemical industry is and all those chemicals that were in place and that were preserved or moved to some other space is that we saved the environment. But besides that, we can also prevent some respiratory infections or diseases. It all says together that we all have to contribute to one real result. And this trial license, which is said to be 240 days old, is that all these facilities and all these drives when it passes, will really have one good basis to work. After these floods, our environment has been seriously damaged. Now, in order for these laws to be passed, they are quite correct, we all have to make a contribution. I want to mention one thing that is generally present in Serbia. We can't let ourselves throw a plastic bottle out of an open car window anymore. The laws are there, we make them, but we have to apply the laws and we have to keep everything around us. So that and something that is present in Serbia between 2004 and 2012, these are IPA 2 funds that speak and have goals, these are all our goals, that we need to improve the quality and quantity of water, that we need to improve the quality and quantity of land and thus improve biodiversity and valuable eco-systems. Why am I saying this? If we don't do it, and that Chapter 27, which is ahead of us, if we don't all contribute, we can't make it happen, we can't give a positive answer. One more thing, which is very important, environmental protection has no limits, and you said it decisively yesterday, but to protect that environment, there are newer times and times of information technologies for certain recycling companies or industries. This must be raised to a much higher level in Serbia. When profits and reforms in the country of Serbia, which this government is headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic is doing, it is in this direction and in the direction of environmental protection we must do together and as much as we can do or bring or make these recycling facilities to all those wild dumps... Yesterday, we talked about how many thousands of such dumps in Serbia are to sort it all out, and we have to take care of those plums, or streams of rivers that stayed after the flood and give an answer for all future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23379	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic, and let the MP Milan Novakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23380	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, fellow MPs, I will focus today's exposure on the Law on Integrated Prevention and Environmental Control. The reason for proposing amendments to this law is to ensure the consistency of certain legislative solutions with the application in practice, all in order to prevent and control environmental pollution. For the issue of an integrated permit we've heard in the last two days. It is therefore necessary to implement a prescribed legal procedure that lasts up to 240 days. The adoption of this law is proposed by an urgent procedure, given that its non-compliance could result in adverse consequences for achieving our country's strategic definition in the EU negotiation and accession process, i.e. continued implementation of rules in the area of integrated prevention and environmental pollution control with EU rules. There are 196 existing facilities in the Republic of Serbia and a list of existing facilities was made under the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination and on the basis of the Regulation on the types of activities and facilities for which an integrated authorisation is issued. Taking into account the dynamics of the issue of integrated licences, as well as the process, the complexity and practice of issuing an integrated authorisation, the competent authority is scheduled to issue an integrated authorisation by 31 December 2020 at the latest. What are we doing with this law? I think there's been a lot of noise in the last day. The proposed solutions are an expression of finding a solution to ensure the work of new plants after the test work, until an integrated authorisation is issued. What effect will the solutions proposed by this law have? First of all, the positive effect will have on operators of new facilities for which an integrated authorisation is issued, a clearer definition of the conditions of operation of the facility during the period of examination requires during the test work or after the trial work in the next 240 days, until the date of issue of the integrated authorisation. Also, a positive effect is expected for the competent authority to issue licences, by precision of such a dynamic of the issue of integrated licences, no later than 2020, providing the competent authority with a rational and justified period of time for issuing the licence. The imperative of implementing legislative solutions, including this law, is that this law enables new operators to appear on the market, to strengthen market competition, i.e. create a realistic opportunity to invest foreign investment in the construction of new plants, i.e. the implementation of market standards and the provision of legal certainty, and with regard to the application of EU law and national regulations in this area. When we talk about this legislative proposal, it is important to say that this law does not change the important regulation of a question in this area. However, the public debate was not conducted under a specific programme. As a logical trail following certain amendments and additions to this law, certain implementing rules relating to the issue of integrated licences are also relevant and I will mention some of them: Regulation on the types of activities and facilities for which an integrated authorisation is issued; Regulation on the content, appearance and method of filling the requirements for the issue of an integrated authorisation; Regulation on the content of the request; Regulation establishing the application for an integrated authorisation programme, as well as the Law on Planning and Construction. I sincerely believe that in the area of the environment I expect a great role and parliamentarians who have gathered together within the Green Network, to fight that certain legal solutions may be changed and that within that network, I can say that representatives of all political parties are gathered. I personally don't think there should be any party colour, because, simply, the problem of environmentalism, the problem of our healthy living environment is the problem of all of us, and I don't think there's much difference whether we're in position or not. If we assess Serbia's progress report in this area during 2013, of a total of 161 plants, 105 submitted an application for integrated permits. Only six permits were issued during 2013. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the links between environmental impact assessment and IPPS and to exploit their synergy. In local self-governments, minimum standards should be laid down for the taking of legal obligations, before the transfer of competence. So we need to significantly increase the level of planned public participation in integrated prevention and environmental control. In 2014, of the estimated 185 installations for integrated pollution prevention and control, 162 submitted a request. Ten permits have been resolved, three are at the republican level, five were in the province and two are at the level of local self-government. Analyzing the ministry's capacities, it is noted that the very low threshold of knowledge of applicants is the requirement, despite the numerous trainings carried out. If we analyze our relationship to the state of the environment, it also says that only 169 people who are involved in environmental protection are employed in 40 local self-government. In particular, in the town of Chačka, from which I come, the long-term problem of the dump was burning. It's got a lot going on with the location itself that would have been defined for that dump. I can tell you that as a result of everything, we have received that Cacak has become one of the largest founders of the “Deep” regional dump by 26.88%. How happy this is for my local self-government is the fact that every budget year for the disposal and disposal of garbage, Cačak sets out about a million euros and we are never on the clear which century is the duration of that dump. Yesterday, even the head of our parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, said that so much money went to rehabilitate the glide and the inevitable is that the Turkish stream is being conceived to expand the body of the dump and to expand the lifetime of the dump. I'd also like to say something about the existence of wild dumps. Two years ago, based on the mapping of the entire territory of the city, which was done by the municipal police, I had very up-to-date information about where the dumps were, and we solved the problem by public works, precisely through the activity of public utility companies, cleaning up these dumps. But you know what happened? Every year, almost continuously, these wild dumps have been restored, which means that our average citizen is missing and how education is done, because he usually throws and dumps municipal waste where he's used to doing it. For this reason, education, both of the youngest and kindergartens, through primary and secondary schools, including colleges, is very important to us. Otherwise, my city, the town of Cačak, is considered an extremely ecologically safe town, because the primary waste selection has reached 70%, which means that we also owe great gratitude to the European delegation, which has maximum support for us and has solved the problem in some way at the county level, because we have just received 184,000 euros to support the primary waste selection. They participated in the project together: as an applicant of the town of Cačak, and Ivanica and Luciani were co-applicants on the project. As for the construction of the station transfer, I can boast that by the end of this calendar year, the town of Cacak will also receive a built-up transfer station, which will in some way raise the waste load system to a higher level than it is now done on the "Step" dump. Also, yesterday I heard information that from September of the month there will be an ecological fund formation. Believe me, I am very happy with this fact, because our local budgets are not enough to send many projects into the field of environmental protection, and when you meet in the field, you see that there is a very large activity both from local communities and from school levels, and even from colleges, when it comes to those small projects that can and how to contribute. In environmental protection activities, it is very important to set priorities and it is very important to use the ecological green dinar in a rational way. I've seen that it's mostly been a grudge for our debaters so far, that over the past few times, not that it's speculation, but that it's simply not purposefully spent that money. Here, I was forced to take it out of the utility fee, because I saw that there was no dedicated use of funds, and I absolutely transferred the payment of the ecological fee to the local tax administration, because then it was much easier for me to monitor the inflow into the budget and to use it completely transparently and through the media, to spend that ecological money. Another thing I'd like to say when it comes to the environmental problem that we're discussing today and yesterday, we should all take the view that we should all deal with it. You don't have to think that it's left on any local self-government that everyone writes what they think they need to treat through that program. Local self-government, perhaps some colleagues do not have the information, first apply, with the programme coming out to their city council, and when the city council passes, then a request is submitted to the competent ministry, and the ministry looks at the local environment programme and then returns it to the local parliament. On my own personal behalf and on behalf of my parliamentary group, I will in voting day support the very proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23381	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic, and let the MP of the people, Nevena Stojanovic, be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23382	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have three very important laws in the field of environmental protection. As the first law on which we have a principle debate is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act. The Chemical Law has introduced a new way of uniting chemical management in the Republic of Serbia. This way of managing is consistent with EU rules, ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment and improving free traffic with other EU countries and countries. The collection system for the management of chemicals from legal entities has long been established in EU countries and as such is a sustainable model of funding. This prevents the cost of managing chemicals from being borne by all citizens, and at the expense of those who profit from chemicals. Given the number of chemicals found on the market, the state would not be able to allocate in the budget sufficient funds to assess the safety of chemicals, so it is logical that this part of the burden falls on traffickers, importers and chemical manufacturers. The reasons for the adoption of this law are certainly in the need to comply with the Chemical Act and with other system laws governing the budgetary system, i.e. By law on the budgetary system, then, ensuring the functioning of the budgetary system and the economic instruments system and ensuring the financing of chemical management. In order to monitor the application of the provisions, they shall be applied both to imported and manufactured chemicals. The existence of a joint body of environmental inspection, sanitary and market inspections is necessary in order to coordinate and take measures and activities to be taken to implement the law. Also, all three inspections must undergo adequate training and the objective of adequate and effective control over the application of the prescribed legal provisions. Certainly, the most important thing here is that all that the Chemical Agency has done so far is move on to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, that the Ministry and the Government assume responsibility for the transport of chemicals, to keep under control both the transport and the collection of financial resources, which will be purposely spent in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is also similar to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act. This law also harmonizes with the latest amendments to the Chemical Law. The most important thing here is to include, in addition to the controls themselves, including market inspection, sanitary inspection and environmental inspection, veterinary inspection, in view of the type of biocidal products in transport which are and how specific they are. In this part, it is very important to stress that in the very adoption of laws, whose proposal is extremely good with these amendments proposed, a very important way to control by inspection of the management and use of all biocidal products. We are witnessing in the previous days that we have unprofessional and unconscious use of biocidal rodent control products, which is certainly not to be allowed. In order for any law that we pass to be properly applied, I think it is very important to raise awareness among citizens about environmental protection and environmental protection, both with the youngest levels and with all producers who should also use one good part of the resources for education and the application of those who use biocidal products. Of course, the government headed by Alexander Vukic absolutely wants to and in each segment shows that it wants to build modern and modern Serbia, with the environment that suits our republic. We were able to see, in the previous period, from 2008 to 2012, that some were engaged in cleaning Serbia, so they cleaned up a good part of the budget and cleaned up the financial part that was suitable for education and implementation of prevention measures. This is certain that this government and this Ministry will not do and will certainly have the full support of our MPs in these honest and sincere intentions to pass quality laws, to apply these same laws because this is only one beginning. More than 30%, as we know, of all laws coming to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia will be from the area of environmental protection. I can only tell you that we, like the MPs of the SNS, and hopefully all the other colleagues, will also make a great contribution to the adoption of laws and the affirmation of these laws and to propagating everything that will make our environment healthier and our entire system in the Republic of Serbia. In Voting Day, we will surely support these laws and hope for good and fruitful co-operation in raising the quality of life and protecting the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23383	Thank you. The word is Neven Stojanović. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23384	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable representatives of the government and fellow MPs, I must admit that I expected more from these amendments and, of course, I cannot agree with many discussions that were heard yesterday and today. Namely, the laws on chemicals and biocidal products that were adopted in 2009 and their adoption adopted a new policy on the management of biocidal products and chemicals, which also increased the standard of safety of health and the environment. The policies and regulations are in line with the European Union's regulations and policies. These laws also provide for the establishment of the Chemicals Agency, which immediately started the process of comprehensive regulation of chemical management. Before its founding, only 19 chemicals were on the list of bans and restrictions in Serbia, and during its work the number was increased to more than a thousand dangerous chemicals. Before its founding, it has also become a functional part of the European network and institutions, headed by the European Chemicals Agency. The agency has brought 45 sublegal acts to over four thousand pages. The funds resulting from the compensation were a major source of funding from the Agency. In just two years, it has achieved significant results, and the first in Serbia, the Agency has established an integrated chemical register, i.e. a chemical database and their properties. Once again, a high level of protection for human health and the environment has been achieved. By law on biocidal products, the Agency was in charge of implementing this law. By its work, the Chemicals Agency is responsible for the fact that the Republic of Serbia is the winner of the bronze award for strategic access to international chemical management from 2009 to 2012. The award was presented in Nairobi, at the third meeting of the International Conference on Chemical Management. In addition to all the positive results, excellent work that has been recognised in the professional circles in the International Community, at the end of 2012, the Chemical Agency was abolished by amendments to the Law. I don't agree with some debaters who just called the Agency a bureaucratic apparatus. It employs 33 highly educated people, with specific knowledge. There were two doctors and three magistrates. At that time, the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, takes over jobs, employees, funds for work, and more. After a year and a half, by amending the Ministry Act, the Agency's affairs are being taken over by your ministry. I'm asking, why is the pre-election promise of abolishing everything called the agency gone too far in this case? Is the implementation of the Biocidal Products Act more effective under the auspices of the Ministry? I don't think so personally. The government for the abolition of the Chemicals Agency has no valid explanation. In this case, have they won the lobby that wants to import highly-sharp chemicals into Serbia? They don't care about the health of Serbian citizens and the future of our children. Someone forgot that the Chemicals Agency was one of the few places where Serbia has already fully met European standards and has also received formal recognition in the European Union report. This is a big step back for our country's order. Here, cheap demagogy, combined with narrow business interests, was defeated against the public interest of Serbian citizens. What were the reactions of Brussels on this matter? I'll only list some of them from March 2013. The European Commission will negatively assess the abolition of the Chemicals Agency and ask the Serbian government to re-activate the work of this body. The current government then made a rough failure and abolished only the regulatory body that cared about the safety and health of the population, by prescribing which chemical and biocidal substances and products should not be used, imported and exported. The source in Brussels says that the government's authorities have been asked why this body was abolished, an answer has been received – we keep pre-election promises. I'm asking, who's implementing the Biocidal Products Act? To whom do producers and distributors pay fees, if we know the Agency stopped working two and a half years ago? In the reasons for the adoption of these amendments under the Biocidal Products Act, by an urgent procedure, you say, I quote, that the Agency ceased its work in 2012, that it was authorised to implement the Biocidal Products Act, thus ensuring legislative, organisational, institutional and other conditions necessary for the functioning of the Biocidal Product Management System in the Republic of Serbia. My question is, what have you been waiting for for two and a half years? Why has these amendments to the Biocidal Products Act not been made since 2012, when the Agency ceased its work? Why was a two-and-a-half-year legal vacuum built? It is absurd to argue that an emergency procedure is necessary, and these changes were necessary in 2012. This is just another piece of evidence that this government is working styphically, recklessly and, of course, all at the expense of the citizens. An even greater absurdity is in the light of the need for this law to take effect on the next day from the day of its publication. This is due to the need to ensure continuity in the functioning of the biocidal product management system, as well as the legal framework for the change of jurisdiction in this area, the end of the quote. I don't see any continuity here, and I'd like you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23385	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23386	Instead of continuity, all I see is chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23387	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23388	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Snezana Boskovic-Bogosavljevic, dear guests, what I wanted to say at the very beginning, and most of my discussion will be referred above all to those things that do not exist in Serbia in 2012, all of those institutions that we abolished in 2012, i.e. that you abolished in 2012, which led to a dramaticly bad situation when it comes to the environment. However, at the very beginning, I must confess one thing to you. First of all, you are the only minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who stands as he speaks to the MPs, which gives some respect to us, as a representative of the citizens, and I think that unlike the prime minister and the other ministers, you are the only one who has a certain relationship with the MPs and thank you for that. On the other hand, you have to be aware, as opposition MPs still, we won't stay in the opposition for long, but we are still opposition MPs, we are, believe me, not happy, but giving recognition to every minister, and the prime minister would also, if the situation in Serbia, in all areas, or, in this particular case -- in your area, remain unchanged. That nothing positive happens, just so something worse doesn't happen. We would applaud and give our confession, although I am fully aware that you do not bear full responsibility, in part, because you are a year minister, but that you are not fully responsible for the cataclysmic state of the environment in Serbia. In that sense, when we talked about what remained of the bitter taste of Serbian citizens, it was the attitude towards the environment since 2012. So, since the EU, of course, certainly represented a global leader when it comes to the protection of the environment, and not only when it comes to regulation, but also when it comes to the implementation of all these laws, we have been able to recognise the importance of this topic as a matter of great and positive praise by the European Commission and the EU and 2009 and 2010 and 2012 as Serbia. In its report, the European Commission positively assessed Serbia's progress in the area. But what happens then? It happens that in 2012, Zorana Mihajlovic takes over through her ministry of energy protection of the environment, and the Fund is being abolished, the Agency is being abolished. The Chemicals Agency, in particular, for the simple reason that one of the five best rated in Serbia and Deger as someone who was at the time the head of the EU delegation in Serbia has designated the only Chemicals Agency as one of the five most relevant in this country. Somewhere for this reason, for all the results, because of the professional staff gathered at that agency, not only are we proud of the results that we've done then, but we've now tried to convince you that it's essential that the Agency come back and start it again, no matter how much it costs, and it doesn't cost much. It is very important because in a comprehensive way we regulate a very important thing when it comes to protecting the environment. So, since 2012, the Chemical Agency has stopped working. All employees, objects, equipment, archives are moving to the Ministry, then energy. In a completely amateur way, we approach as a state to this problem, which is then already said in the next 2013 and 2014 report, and the European Commission's report on the subject. So, I am aware that it is your predecessor, that it is not you, but let me quote the European Commission's report on the following – Serbia has made little progress on human environmental protection and the fight against climate change and everything else that the Agency has in one, when it comes to chemicals, particularly regulated. The air quality then speaks of annual data showing that air in seven of the eight wider urban areas in Serbia has fallen to the quality category of three, which means that in the air the content of negative particles is greater than the limit to be tolerated in EU countries. This all says that, among other things, Zoran Mihajlovic, by abolishing this Chemicals Agency, by abolishing the Environment Fund, has brought Serbia back dozens and dozens of years. Today we are in a position as we are, that Croatia is 50 years ahead of us, as our neighbor. That over 100 years ahead of us have developed EU countries. As you know, the existence of the Agency also meant the fees used for purpose, not as a general part of the budget, but thus the Agency itself financed itself. It is today that we are trying to bring back administrative fees on these amendments and amendments to the law, which, on the other hand, do not represent a deliberate, tomorrow spending of funds, but they enter into the general budget, and they will be spent, as well as the "Serbians" spending money, when it comes to the funds for regulating the river's troughs, and all that hit us in the floods last May of last year, is one irresponsible spending of funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the matter. When it comes to the Chemicals Agency, today it is proposed to do something about the same procedures that the economic operators paid for to the Chemical Agency. So the same fees that were once abolished because they were thought to burden the economy, to burden the company's economic crisis, businesses, are now being reintroduced. All that is today's so-called argument, I think it's a semi-arguments somewhere, it's not disputed that we are the one who pollutes wages, that we understand each other right now, we support it, as we introduced in 2009, just now saying it's not good that non-intentional tomorrow, these funds are being spent. And, if it were a major crisis in Serbia, primarily economic, so the government thus potentiates the importance of this issue which I am not excluding, just to raise certain funds and then spend them on a whole other thing. What's the problem with taxi regulation yet? Therefore, the fees charged by public agencies are the revenues of the agency, to make it absolutely clear to all citizens, from these agency fees finance the costs, among other things, of their work. So much for how expensive the agency was that it was a basic argument for its abolition. So now that the taxes are in question, I underline once again the revenue of the budget and there is no guarantee that there will be one single green dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget. You know very well how bad it is and I don't think it's your fault. We are fully aware that the government of the Republic of Serbia is functioning and we are fully aware of how much autonomy you have in decision-making, but I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this way only wants to collect incomes that will cover some holes because there are too many holes in Serbia. We don't think that's a good solution for the space of reason we've submitted amendments to solve this thing in a better way somewhere. When it comes to biocides, the biggest weakness of the proposal is the inapplicability of the law. Today we can adopt changes and additions to whatever we want, I'll go back to that beginning, just so it doesn't get worse, we think it's very important that these changes and additions don't stay, as we believe they will or at least expect, a dead letter on paper. I have one question, and I'll finish after I'm running out of time, and I have one question when it comes to the urgency of passing this law. Therefore, they are proposed by emergency procedure, it is not disputed, all as it enters the Assembly out of it, but in view of what you have stated, so that the adoption of the law under emergency procedure could not result in adverse consequences for the efficient work of the authorities, as indicated, and thus bring domestic economy into an uncompetitive position in relation to EU countries etc. So the question is: who is responsible for the baseless decision to abolish the chemical management system and biocidal products for these three years to date? So, if an emergency procedure brings in something to make an urgent thing better, who's responsible for what she's done these three years. I know you know that Zorana Mihajlovic is. I also know that the SPS had several occasions in the discussion yesterday to underline that Zorana Mihajlovic is responsible for this, but I ask you to adopt our amendments that have the best intention of regulating this matter the way it is in the developed EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23389	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23390	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic and his associates, I would like to exchange some arguments in a brief dialogue and reach certain conclusions, all in favour of the public and, above all, the environment. It is true that you are at the head of the ministry in charge of the environment for nine or ten months and that you do not carry full responsibility, but that is something that is very often heard in parliament today. We say, yes, you're in that place for a while, you don't have full responsibility, the ministers are changing, and the situation in that vault is getting worse and worse. However, I must, therefore, direct you to a general criticism, which is to continue that policy of the former ministry, which is, unfortunately, a policy of silence on the environment, too important a topic of two days really listens to it, and everyone is right when they say how important the topic of the environment is and too important to keep quiet about it. So it's not enough to speak at expert forums on this area. The public must first of all know everything about the state of the environment, that is, the environment in which they live. We have to keep having a debate and a campaign on rules of conduct and of individuals and groups on the environment, above all to warn, to achieve that first principle in protecting the environment. By preparing for these laws, I talked to the professors of several universities dealing with the environment and we come to, or we came to a conclusion that you probably came to when you did the analysis, when you came to the head of the ministry and took over this resort – that the environment in Serbia was indeed devastated. I mean from law enforcement, education, criminal policies, cleaning up public areas, all the way to waste management of air quality, water management and protection, waste water treatment, industrial pollution control, nature protection, chemicals we're talking about today, noise protection. Well, what I'm talking about right now, these areas are contained in Chapter 27 on the environment, the negotiating chapter that is the most extensive of all negotiating chapters of all 35, as many as Serbia has. This is absolutely understandable to me, because a third of all EU rules actually apply to the environment. I mean, with what starting position are we waiting for the negotiations on Chapter 27? I mean very badly, because the standard here is the key word. The achievement of standards is, in fact, the process of bringing the EU closer not to the mere adoption of laws, full application and achievement of standards, and what are our standards in various areas today? Here, let's say, waste management, so we're not in a six-year state until the end of the project of regional dumps. Our municipalities are suffocating in waste. We won't be able to see any parts of the highway from those dumps by the road any day now. How far have we gone in the treatment of wastewater? How far did we get in control of industrial pollutants? How far away are we, what happens to one of the basic principles of the EU and us until recently, which is that the polluter pays? That's all the questions we need to get answers to. Mrs Boskovic - Bogosavljevic, who is the last year for which we have a united report on the state of the environment in Serbia. I will remind you of the annual reports on the state of the environment in Serbia from 2000 to 2012. Did he have annual environmental reports for 2013? Do we have 2014 as well? I'm afraid we're waiting for negotiating Chapter 27 on the environment, no environmental reports, two years ago. I'm also talking about those standards about that poor starting point. The chemical law, I support the principle of charging fees as you stated that the charge for managing chemicals is actually done by legal persons and that we relieve citizens by paying out of the budget and for the benefit of those who have benefited from the sale of chemicals, I support it. However, my colleague Bozovic talked about it. It's not green money, they would've been if they'd gone, if the bill had gone through the agency. The money that comes from charging taxis will be able to be used on anything, not just to protect the environment. As MPs, we want to control the spending of these pairs, it is important that the money that comes from these funds, from contaminants, from chemical charges, to manage chemicals, is spent on protecting the environment. I'm afraid it won't be now. We talked a lot about the Chemical Agency, I think yesterday was the best elaborated by my colleague from the League, Mrs. Nada Lazic. She elaborated very well, why it's important that we still have that agency. I think the agency was just agreed with the EU in 2009. The EU has invested 3.5m euros in the agency's work. By abolishing 2012, the Agency's competences were transferred to the ministry, as well as to employees, as well as material, immaterial assets, and there was no savings other than those experts who left the agency's work, precisely because of such behaviour. You know what people are concerned about, and today these people work for respected international institutions, and they could work for the state. Then we come to the conclusion that if you took over the agency, then you took over the chemical register on Serbia's territory. Do you also have a chemical register in the last three years? If it's being run, then it won't be hard for you to answer what was in the Telecom depot that burned down in Makisha a few days ago? To that question, the agency would answer, as the agency ran a very zealous chemical register. I'm finishing up, I think the Biocidal Act is inconclusive, but you have to strengthen the ministry's work a lot. In the end, you'll allow me 10 seconds, environmental protection is a state of consciousness and education, education, full law enforcement, that's what we're going to give you support for. For everything else, we'll be strong critics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23391	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic – Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank everyone who took part in the discussion of the three laws that we presented yesterday, my associates and I. It is, as most MPs have found, about extremely important laws in the field of environmental protection. With these laws, we are opening up an intensive legislative activity, just about this area and in the coming period you can expect new laws. Thank you all for contributing that our citizens have a better vision and a better idea of these laws, that they know what we do and what we do in the field of environmental protection. Now I want to speak to Mr. MPs from the DS. I understand your questions, and I understand your criticism. I think you were there yesterday, and I've been answering some of the criticism and answering, but I'm going to answer you, and I want to tell you that you've had a lot of time, you've been in power for a long time, and you've had a lot of opportunities to solve burning issues in the field of environmental protection. Unfortunately, you've done as much as you've done. I believe you wanted more and better, and I believe you had problems, as we have today. I took over this area ten months ago. I took over the dinar-free sector with very many controversial projects, as regards projects that were once part of the fund and funded from the fund, and yesterday I announced that it was over 2,000 projects, the fund was shut down in 2012, as you said, and it wasn't because the minister wanted it, but the fund was dysfunctional, it didn't have a dinar. So as such, he had to disappear. The funds that previously existed in the Fund have been spent, the auditors and others who have done the controls, both in a non-transparent way and in a way that was not meaningful, but I leave it to those who have the right data and who are competent to carry out the audit and control. In any event, from the moment of termination, both the Fund and the Agency did not form a legal vacuum. The role of the Fund, the Agency's role was taken over by the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, and now our Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. So, all the jobs that the Agency has been doing until then, the Fund, we are doing today, with the difference that we at the Fund now, as the Fund that you have not had, but for all the jobs in the field of environmental protection, the government defines us. So, even when the budget was made for this year and despite the truly invisible economic situation in which Serbia is today, the possible resources are maximumly allocated to address environmental issues. It's not the Fund, but the funds have been allocated. We paid off a huge debt to the recycling industry at the beginning of this year, almost two billion dinars. We provided funding from the national budget to start solving the issue of historical waste. You've had the opportunity, ten, maybe more years, to start solving these issues. You're not. We started it. We have a plan, we have prepared environmental funding models and we have the government's support, the prime minister, the finance minister, and we expect this fund to live from September. We have a status review in the field of environmental protection. That state review is not a secret, and it can't be a secret. We have clearly and unequivocally presented the situation in the field of environment in Serbia to the European Commission in bilateral screening. We're expecting a report somewhere in the fall. We are now working on preparing dates for which we will determine that we can implement the most important standards in the field of environmental protection from Europe. So we're working very intensely. Our work may not be so visible to some, perhaps you don't want to see what we're doing. I'm really sorry, I don't know how we're supposed to impose on you to understand the situation we're in and to understand what we want to do. For this reason, if you are already so interested and concerned about environmental issues, which I think is great and good, and every citizen of ours should show interest and concern, and be responsible for the environment, but personally, as I invited Mr. Vesenovic to you yesterday, personally, I may not be able to explain it well enough to you from here, but I am calling you and everyone else, we will be very happy to respond to you in the rooms of the Ministry, in the rooms of the National Assembly, to answer all the questions, to simply come up with the arguments, to see what it was 10, 15 years ago, five years ago, what we had, what we did, until we arrived and what our vision. The environmental problems you mention, and dumps and treatment of waste and waste water, etc. climate change, it's a lot of problems, we can't talk about it like this, it's sensitive issues. These are issues that really require one focus, one attention, issues that concern all of us, and Europe and all the people who are responsible. That is why they give us the opportunity to adopt the legal fluids of Europe, the EU, but they give us space to implement these legal assets in certain segments. That's exactly what we're doing right now. Do you know what our job is, when we now have to assess what year we will be ready to implement some EU legislation, and you know, we mentioned yesterday the strategy that the deadline is 2030. Please, how much attention it takes, how much knowledge it takes, how much expertise it takes without making a mistake, like you once made a mistake, so in 2008, you signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so now I have a problem with agriculture, when it comes to the transport of agricultural products. I don't blame you, because at that time you thought that we would be a member of the EU. You, I believe, have had good intentions, but a mistake has been made, and you can think of me now, along with my team, how much patience, how much knowledge, how much caution, so that we don't make a mistake in protecting the environment as you once did in agriculture. So, I apologize to everyone, for saying so much, it's just saying that I can talk a lot. I really ask you that whenever you have time, whenever you want to come and talk, because I believe that you have both knowledge and experience, you also have a good desire. Perhaps you can help us resolve these sensitive issues together. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23393	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, on what grounds? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ( b) Replica. If I don't give you a replica, you're going to be asking for the advertising of the Rules of Procedure? Here, so I will now read to you Article 104 relating to the replica – if the MP is interpreted, the other participant in the debate, means the minister, in his presentation at the National Assembly session, has an offensive expression of the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, since the minister cannot do so, stating his name or function, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to the replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Let me explain. He didn't even mention your name to you, or the MP's group, and you're not authorized. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Yes, she told you here. No, she said you. You can be anyone. Even if a colleague said so, only an authorised representative of the parliamentary group or head of the parliamentary group can. I have listened carefully and do not see what is offensive, what is wrongly interpreted if the minister invites you to dialogue on solving this problem. (Balsa Bozovic, from place: Two minutes. But then I'll break the Rules of Procedure. (Dejan Nikolic, from the scene: I am looking for a word. Mr. Nikolic, do you feel like you have a right to a replica? (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: I am deputy chief, I am right. There's your boss. All right. Right on line, MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23394	Dear Minister, the new thing is that you called the Stabilisation and Association Agreement a mistake. We will not agree there, in fact it was a step towards the EU, a great success of the then government, as well as a lot of successes that we have achieved in the field of the environment, but if you do not remember, this job that you have criticised we have done together. So, with you, as a member of the people and with the SPS as a coalition partner. So that job you criticized we worked together. You had positions of responsibility in that government. What I'm trying to say is that I'm not opening the Fund topic, we've talked a lot about it. It wasn't a budget fund and it wasn't charged from the budget. It was filled with money as a principle of "polluter pays". It's one of the better things that the government of Vojislav Kostunica did in 2006 and established, I admit, and it was shut down in 2012 in such a hurry, that in 2015 you will have to return it. Is that true? I think the September moon is optimal somewhere, but in September, we'll have the Environmental Protection Fund again, because it's our responsibility. This shows the correctness of our arguments when we say it was a mistake, when you abolished it in 2012. What I'm pointing to is that the funds from that fund, which were put inside by contaminants, have opened nearly 10,000 jobs, so on. green jobs, especially in the recycling industry. I mean, when we talk about debate, about a campaign, which you always have to run as someone who makes decisions about how important the environment is, because we are for individuals, and for decision makers, too many compromises on environmental damage, and for the benefit of the economy and jobs. As an ecologically very conscious man, I refuse to choose between jobs and the environment if we know that businesses will have to be based on green standards. I'm afraid we're losing now and it's already achieved and formed green jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23395	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23396	Let me explain for a moment. I didn't say it was a mistake when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed. I made it clear that there was a mistake in assessing the deadlines in which we would be able to be ready to liberalise trade in agricultural and food products, and I did not accuse you of that, but I said that it was extremely important not to make a similar mistake again. So, just enough to explain what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23397	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the joint principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blažić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23398	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister and Guests of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, was now here to say again about the Chemicals Agency as the only possible way to organise and edit the area. I'll just tell you, since at one point over 100 agencies were founded, that, say, Germany has six agencies, I'll tell you how this Chemical Agency was organized and how it, like other agencies, served to foster party members of some parties. The agency had its own director, and then it had two executive directors, an executive director for biocina products and an executive director for chemicals. So she had a service for international co-operation, a service for European integration, a service for economic, legal and general affairs, and four other sectors, the chemical management sector, the chemical and biocidal product risk management sector, and the chemical and biocidal product risk control sector, and finally the product registry sector. People, now that you're multiplying by 160, times 30 and something, you get a huge number of people, and we all have to cry now if we've closed down some agencies, and no one's crying when the production factories and the plants of small and medium-sized enterprises shut down, because they impose and the taxes they're supposed to pay, so that they can finance these things, they have to close. You are the way the funds were spent, don't complain about the fund, please, the people of the previous regime should be the last to have the right to criticise anything in Serbia's environment, the last. The so-called Green Fund spent more than it could possibly have imagined. What was done for four or more years in that period when nothing in the environment was done in the main? One dump worked for 10 years. It's been a dump in Subotic for ten years. Ten years, people. Twenty-five million euros will be thrown there, and you had a fund in which the chairman of the Management Board was also a minister at the same time, so in only one transaction he transferred from the fund a billion and 800 million to the expense of his ministry that he was spending money making some cleaning of Serbia, paying for newspapers, leaflets, T-shirts, fakes, painting, singing and playing, and that everything else was the same. Can someone just say what the waste management was done for that year? How many dumps is that? Now it's said we have six regional dumps. Yeah, six dumps. Since 2000, six have been done. So what was it? Let's see how we can solve the problem. Experts were transferred from the agency to the ministry and there was no vacuum. It's just that I agree that it's very difficult. I agree that the situation in the environment is very, very complicated and difficult, above all, and when it comes to the opening of Chapter 27 and our obligations that we will have to take. This ministry, I believe, and all the people who want to help when it comes to the environment will already run the system in this year and we can solve all that if we're organized, if we really put everything in place, if what needs to be taken away from the funds. It doesn't matter if it's a green dinar, whether it's a health dinar, whether it's an educational dinar. No, it's this country's money and this people's money that needs to be focused on those things that we need right now, but priority in solving problems, not financing any organizations, whether they're agencies, whether they're offices, not just doing optimally what's possible. If we were just as much money as we were then invested in that period of those years and as much as there's been a donation since 2000 and so on, we'd have already had significant problems solved in the environment, and we haven't even moved. That is why, I am sure, with an operational plan, and that is why the Committee on Environmental Protection of this Assembly, which I chair, will do everything to encourage all people in this country, whether it is the ministry, whether it is the NGO sector, whether it is all those who want to help, find the right solutions and that Serbia definitely has its way. Serbia will do so and we will not be a generation that will be remembered for some future generations leaving some evil and something bad, but rather, we will be for a time who knew that he respected the future and knew that he would leave a healthy environment for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23399	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23400	Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't answer, but I think everything went wrong, the whole debate. So, environmental protection funds have been spent, right. Serbia was cleaner than it is now, right. What does Serbia look like to us today? It's a disaster. Can it be fixed by not having an environmental agency? He can't. For what? Because that agency needs to be returned and given executive powers, inspection, criminal powers. Without that, we can clean Serbia a hundred times, because the whole point should have been in it – don't soil Serbia, not clean Serbia, and since Serbia is still dirty and there's no one left to handle it and because there's no telling who's in charge, that's why it's always a proposal, or that's why we insist that the agency be reintroduced and given a lot of rubies, greater powers. You instead of telling us why it doesn't suit you, you're talking about how much money was spent in the previous period. It's a shame you can't say anything else. You tell us why we shouldn't re-establish the agency we're giving executive, clear powers, which can shut down the plant, shut down the factory, punish a municipality that doesn't conduct environmental cleaning? Why? Here, that's a suggestion. No, how much was spent on action? Your policy begins and stands in the same sentence – what happened by 2012? You're unable to see the state of our Republic today and what our paths look like, I mean around the roads, what we look like in the water streams, what we're in the state of the canal network and we're terrified of floods. Well, it's normal to be patient. There's no one to regulate it. The Ministry can't just do that. He doesn't even have the capacity to determine what he's going to do, not to do the agency's jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23401	Right to the replica of Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23402	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in one sentence I will answer. Apparently, the previous speaker had mixed up some things. We have the Environmental Protection Agency, and we shouldn't ask to start what we have. That's it. There's something she needs to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23403	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23404	A very, very, very ingenious explanation. I'm saying the Agency has executive powers to do things that can't even do in madness right now. Nothing alive has been established that they can do. You've abolished the Fund. The agency is a badge on your lapel that you will boast about doing something in the domain of environmentalism. You absolutely don't understand what I'm suggesting. I suggest that you get people to come to Kikind and shut down all the plants that pollute the environment in one day and punish them dramatically for what they're doing. Is that doable? Yes, it is. And why don't we do that? Why don't we do it? That's my question. It is not my question that we are currently discussing ourselves here, but rather discussing powers, the strength of the institution, what you promised in the pre-election campaign, among other things, and not just the hunting of witches from the past, in a situation where Serbia with all the funds spent seemed better in this regard cleaning up the dump and everything else that happened and opening up the recycling plant, the construction of the dump and everything else. So that's a fact. I'm just asking you to understand what I'm saying, let's get away from your subjective sense of what's right in Serbia, because that's your subjective feeling. He doesn't exist in objective reality. I think it's much better for this country to create an institution that's going to be called an agency and that's going to have powers of such coffee now doesn't have 5% of what it does. That's all, to expand, to strengthen strength and to make that institution above all that the Ministry is doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23405	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica Comrade Babić, please, let's clear up some things because there is a largely one dilemma about whether when a representative of the promoter is authorised, the head of the parliamentary club has the right to reply. [[Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why the replica?]] You mentioned in your presentation of counterpart Blazic, who is also a member of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary club. I think it's one interpretation that you insisted very wrongly on, because it's the president of the parliamentary club who gives authority to the representative and when he asks for a word, he suspends that authority at that time (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I can't communicate with the two. ) But Mr Blazic did not answer the word, but Zoran Babic did. On one of your shows you have one replica, you don't have two. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Neither have those two. Well, they don't have two either. Here you go, buddy Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23406	Regulate the time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23407	I remember the time. It's one minute. So, on the third minute, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23408	Thank you. What should be taken seriously from the previous speaker is that he may have spoken about a situation along the roads or in the waterways, because definitely lately, while other MPs are dealing with the legislative and control role we have, Mr Stefanovic is campaigning for the president of his party, so that he is visiting Serbia and I believe he is watching along the way what he is and how he is. But, on the other hand, to talk about protecting the environment and to talk about what needs to be done and how it should be done, it should still be done on the basis of what it does or what it did. Then I ask the question – how is this for the purpose of protecting the environment in India, and Indjia is a municipality in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and under the authority of the AP Vojvodina, the water plant for battery recycling is built on water, and the source is polluted and water is polluted, and water is broken for months? How did the DS President Bojan Pajtic or Mr Jesic react? How did Mr Stefanovic react to that? Did he then say – this is not good for people living in India, this is disastrous to contaminate one in this way? By 2012, which factory was closed? Which municipality was punished by that fund? The only thing they could do in that fund was buy T-shirts, pay for the agencies that will follow them and the site for 25,000 euros and say -- we clean Serbia, where the minister will put a hat on his head, pick up two, three papers and say -- here, the thing is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23409	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23410	To talk about something, you have to qualify, Mr. Stefanovic, what you did, how you did, and you just polluted the environment and cleaned up municipal and republican budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23411	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23412	Maybe I'll qualify for Mr. Babic if I make a jump up here. But I'm just saying I'm not running for president of my party. Thank you for asking. It is nice to burden the Serbian Parliament and the public with the nonsense of our party life. It's you. We give you a nice suggestion, we tell you what to do. Yeah, you guys go by the road, watch where you're gonna run for president. How pointless. I think citizens, if anyone is watching this at all, can really see a classic example of what's called – you're going down the road, and I, Mr. Babico, am going to Dunavo, so now, somewhere we're going to meet maybe. My basic question was: why don't we introduce powers to the Agency that will justify its existence and that will finally lead to some result? What do you have to do with Indjia, if anyone was making it, wasn't making it? You're always boasting about the state's organs. Here, investigate, I don't mind. The hat was worn, cleaned up Serbia, made action. Someone was saving the kids from the trash, someone was going through those transporters to get Obrenovac, so nothing. Is that a picture of good work, as you say? Well, it's not. It's called marketing, in which you're phenomenal. And Serbia is choking in the trash, the canals are buried. You're telling us here how the Ministry is enough to do this. That fund is disgusting because it's spent a lot of money, and there's no solution. It's getting worse. That's what you tell us. Don't be the one running for what anyone's qualified for. I'm sorry, I think I'm qualified enough, unless you know something I don't. Believe me, I'm sure the citizens can see there's nothing you know that I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23413	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23414	Except for the insults and listening to the tirad that we must not deal with and that we must forget some things and call for some collective amnesia for everything that was done by 2012, and for God's sake, Bojan Pajtic and DS in power for 15 years, not 12 years, I did not get an answer for which the same government of Vojvodina is and which is why this same Bojan Pajtic gave permission to do the battery recycling factory on the water supply, but for Mr Stefanovic and DS is not an important issue, it is not an important topic. It's not environmental protection. That's not where people live. That's where these people don't have to drink water. I'm glad you started the channel issue in Vojvodina. Whose jurisdiction is this channel? I'm sure you guys are a lot more in Vorbas than I am, because I'm visiting my friend and my friends in Verbas. It's terrible, but what Serbian citizens need to know is that these channels are under the authority of the "Vode of Vojvodina". What's the condition of the Grand Baba Canal? When was the last time he was clean? How much of the resources are allocated to that cleaning and it's never been cleaned up? What is not said to lead the Vojvodina in a disastrous way, as well as Vojvodina's whole, when DS Bojan Pajtic? It's a good thing you're asking that question about the canal. You now want to put a sign of equality between something that is pride, and it is pride to run into people in distress, and in trouble were they also wrapped up in Feketic and in trouble were people in Obrenovac. You want to put a sign of equality with those who put T-shirts and hats on their heads and cleaned up the budget, who paid 25,000 one site, and look at the coma, a company that's directly connected to the minister. Purchased computer equipment, from whom and where? It's the company that's connected to the minister again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23415	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23416	Now one human reason, one job that the Serbian government has done for its responsibilities, you want to put in with the things that are the case of the prosecution. You can't, as much as you want to even things out, it's impossible, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23417	The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23418	You're free to sufflage Mr. Martinovic. I think the citizens of Serbia were able to hear that pater again, that matrix, you have nothing to say, and then you say this -- here's what you're saying -- except for the insults of dear citizens we haven't heard anything, and the citizens are sitting there watching, listening -- what an insult? No one has ever said an insult. What was the insult here? Maybe mentioning saving the trash? It's not an insult. Why is that an insult? You should be proud of that. You say the agency cleared the budget. Sir, Your Honor, Babić, your party has cleared the pockets of Serbian citizens in the last three years of power, especially for pensioners and people who are employed in the public sector. Their pockets were thoroughly cleaned without their hats. You have party action with hats, too. You and your members who dance, I don't mind, they also have good hats and good shirts. You have a prime minister who saves children from garbage without hats and hats. You have a situation where all our economic indicators are catastrophic, and you can't believe how good we are. You're embarrassed how well you feel, the Prime Minister says. So, again, instead of answering what's wrong, you're setting up a strong, slave agency with executive great powers to back me up. Instead of telling us, you're talking about something you don't know. First, in Vojvodina, channel networks and water streams are far better, unfortunately, than in the rest of Serbia. Secondly, the Dukean company "Vode Vojvodina" defended the province from the floods, and your mayor Shida said – get rid of those sacks because they are from the province government. You know it and Prime Minister Vukic knows it. Well, that's a shame, Mr. Granny, what are you talking about here? Ask the people in Srem who did the job, so just cross over to Capco and the people on the other side and ask the same question. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: What was in Šapec? ) So, what happened in Šapac may Mr. Babic tell you, because he was head of the crisis staff there for a short time, so after the potato stamps you forged...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23419	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23420	Unlike Mr. Stefanovic and DS's manners, thank God, Mr. Martinović and I communicate both in the O.R. and out of the O.R., as well as with all other SNS members. We're talking, we don't share, Mr. Stefanovic. What's unusual to you is that we're working together, it's more about you and your manners. What is sad, what we heard yesterday from Mr. Janko Veselinović, we hear from you today, is the new humiliation of women. Please leave one global good thing, one thing that the colleagues of the board in Zrenjanin wanted to give, to contribute and to draw attention to something that all the women in the world draw attention to. You're making fun of it just because they're members of the SNS. They're primarily women and mothers. Don't insult women. Whenever you need to, insult me, I won't tell you anything. Leave the women alone. It's really beneath honor to do something like that, just because they're members of the SNS. I'll call you, Mr. Stefanovic, and I'll host your Vrbas, and I'll do a picnic next to the Great Baška Channel, and I'll arrange and see how long you'll last, next to that paradise island directed by Bojan Pajtic. Will you last more than 10, 15 minutes? You won't be able to. They're free of that cheerleader -- it's catastrophic everywhere, only where the DS is phenomenal. I don't just know when he's coming to do it, 'cause I see he's working hours in Krushevec, Cupria, Paracino, he's just not at his workplace, and he's getting paid. I don't just know when he's coming to work or that chair in Banovina, the country's Prime Minister's chair is dragging with him and into Kruševac and anywhere else that someone else wouldn't have sat down by chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23421	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23422	I don't have to tell you about the effects of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the IMF tells you. That's what all economic indicators tell you, world economic experts. That tells you life, Mr Stefanovic, because for the first time in Serbia, the budget surplus has been achieved for the first two months. It's the victory of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is the victory of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What you think is defeat can only be your personal defeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23423	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. The word is given to the People's Messenger Branislav Blazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23424	The Honorable Chairman, I apologize, Article 107. You were under the obligation of a speaker who said that we had no control in this country because of pollution and that it was necessary to create an agency that would give us some powerful authority, which would be able to control large pollutants... Just for the sake of truth, to know something, not to get the impression that things are said in this congregation, that speeches are based on ignorance. In this country there are inspection services, republican inspection services, municipal inspection services that control pollutants and which have the authority to close down any plant that, based on a report by the environmental protection agency, crosses some of the pollution limit values. Therefore, things are not what one imagines, but what they stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23425	According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President has called for today's session to be attended by: Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljević, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Stana Bozovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Milanka Davidović, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Slobodan Erdeljan, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environment Protection, Nebojsa Milosavljevic, Director of the Office for Plant Protection of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection, Sinisa Kotur, Head of the Department of Veterinary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and Aleksandra Comeić, Head of the Department of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism under the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management with the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on Co-operation in the Veteran Area, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic and National Algerian Republic in the area of Animal Health and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in the field of Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection. Does the representative of the promoter, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23426	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I am particularly pleased to be able to explain to you today a set of international agreements in the area of agriculture and environmental protection that the National Assembly should adopt. The ministry itself has a very intensive international activity, which also confirms the number of ratified agreements and co-operation protocols with other countries in the areas of agriculture, veterinary, environment. The aim of this form, above all, bilateral co-operation is to improve Serbian agriculture and improve the environmental protection system. At the same time, such co-operation also improves the international position and reputation of our country. Dear People's MPs, you are facing five laws today on confirming international agreements that regulate extremely important issues in the areas of agriculture and environmental protection. These are the draft laws confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism, together with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management, the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, on Co-operation in the Veteran Area, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria in the area of animal health, which has been submitted by the Government and at the end of the proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the cabinet of the Minister of Ukraine on Co-operation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection. First, I will refer briefly to the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism and the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management, with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat. Both protocols were adopted at the third meeting of the Conference of States Parties to the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat on 27 May 2011 in Bratislava. These two protocols regarding the Carpathians for Serbia are important because we belong to the Karpathian area covered by mountain ranges in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Ukraine. In Serbia, these are mountains in eastern Serbia and on the right bank of Velika Morava. It's Homolime Mountains, Ozren, Deli Jovan, Beljanica, Rotanj, Kukataj. We know that it is the mountainous masses of a special natural and ecological value, so it is very important to be part of an integrated system of protection and sustainable planning of space and forest management, in order to preserve existing areas under forests, as a key component of the Karpathic area. The Protocol on the Protection and Sustainable Management of Forests, which the National Assembly is to ratify, is currently predicting sustainable management of the natural values of Karpat, primarily of forests. In this respect, the Protocol contains a whole series of provisions relating to specific measures that all Contracting States should take on this plan. The second act, i.e. the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism in the Carpathian area, provides for the strengthening of Member States' cooperation on the development of a sustainable and acceptable tourism model for Karpat, i.e. the development of tourism in accordance with environmental requirements. The main goal is tourism development, integrated with adequate responsibility for the protection of the biological and cultural diversity of these areas. In addition to the general measures, the Sustainable Tourism Protocol also contains a whole series of specific measures to promote sustainable tourism development in the Karpat area, as well as promotion of co-operation in cross-border or border-protected areas where co-operation by all parties to this Protocol is necessary. The fact is, at the end of last and early this century, there was an expansion of tourism, especially so-called. green tourism, which includes the development of new destinations, primarily in the areas of mountain, Banja and rural tourism. Expansive tourism, however, can significantly and irretrievably destroy biodiversity, disrupt ecological balance, affect environmental pollution. All these unfavourable effects, when it comes to the Carpathian area, can only be mitigated by systematic, strategic activity. It is therefore important for Serbia to confirm and implement these two protocols, which will, on the one hand, contribute to the promotion of sustainable management and protection of karpathic forests, as an exceptional natural treasure, and, on the other hand, to the creation of conditions for the achievement of the positive effects of tourism on biodiversity, ecosystems and economic and social development, whereby systemic measures must continuously mitigate the negative environmental and socioeconomic consequences of tourism development in this area. It is important to point out that the ratification and implementation of those protocols do not create new financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia outside the funds provided for in the ordinary budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Dear People's MPs, the next two international agreements ahead of you today are the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on Co-operation in the Veteran Area and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria in the area of animal health. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on cooperation in the veterinary field, signed in New York on 20 September 2011, as well as the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria in the field of animal health, signed in Algeria on 13 February 2012, regulates issues of bilateral co-operation in the field of veterinary cooperation, in particular in the areas of animal transport and animal products, mutual information on the occurrence, state and take measures to prevent infectious animal diseases, mutual communication in the event of an issue of import and export of consignments, related to the fulfilment of veterinary health conditions, the occurrence of restrictions or prohibition of import and transport of animal consignments, as well as other technical issues related to the validity and the procedure of alteration and addition of the Agreement. These agreements are important to us, given the fact that we have very developed cooperation with Uruguay and Algeria in the field of animal and animal products, and it is necessary to specify all the obligations of the signatories in order to ensure the health and safety of these products by means of a bilateral agreement. We expect that the validation and application of those agreements will contribute to the improvement of the overall economic relations between our two countries. Through the legal framework provided for by these bilateral agreements, more intensive cooperation in the veterinary field will also be ensured, and the conditions envisaged for facilitating transport and increasing the volume of exchange of agricultural and food products of animal origin with these countries will have a favourable impact on the development of our agriculture. These agreements will also ensure the improvement of the co-operation of competent veterinary authorities, scientific institutions and representatives of the agri-industrial complex. Dear MPs, you have yet another important international agreement in the area of agriculture – an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Minister of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. This agreement, signed in Belgrade on 6 June 2013, created a legal basis for Serbia and Ukraine's co-operation in the area of plant health and plant quarantine. For Serbia, this agreement is important, given that we have business co-operation in this area with Ukraine, which is a well-known producer of cereals and seed. Today, when plant diseases can spread rapidly and uncontrollably, it is very important that we import safe seeds, to provide with import arrangements all preventive measures that reduce risk to the least possible extent. Therefore, the agreement sets out detailed issues of co-operation in the field of plant health, which primarily relate to the mutual taking of measures to verify shipments and prevent the entry of harmful and quarantine harmful organisms in the course of the mutual transport or transit of plants through the territory of the Contracting Parties. The exchange of information on the occurrence and spread of harmful and quarantine harmful organisms was then regulated, and an important place was taken and the exchange of experiences of experts in order to conduct occasional phytosanitary checks on plant consignments, plant products and prescribed facilities in places of production, planting, storage and delivery in order to study scientific and practical achievements in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, as well as the suppression and eradication of harmful organisms. Finally, I will also raise issues concerning the harmonisation of the phyto-sertificate for imports, exports and re-sports with respect to the internal laws of the Contracting Parties, as well as other technical issues. Confirmation and implementation of the agreement will contribute to the further development of Serbia and Ukraine's economic relations, the creation of a legal framework for the co-operation of two countries in plant quarantine and plant protection, respecting the interests of mutual protection of the territories of contracting countries from the introduction and spread of regulated harmful organisms on plants, plant products and objects under control, increasing the external trade of plants and plant products, as well as the exchange of experiences in the area of plant quarantine between the two countries. I note that the execution of this, as well as other contracts that are before you, do not create financial obligations for the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, I believe that the confirmation of these international agreements will be supported by all MPs in view of the importance of improving the relationship of the Republic of Serbia with friendly countries through the creation of conditions for more intensive co-operation, the removal of barriers to trade in agricultural products, better inter-infrastructure and tourism integration and long-term co-operation to protect natural and cultural goods. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23427	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23428	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will begin with how the minister ended up. I hope, as well as the SDS ZZS and Green Serbia parliamentary group, will support this set of proposals, conventions and confirmations of the protocol and related to the Karpats, Uruguay and everything else the minister has talked about. Since the Carpathian Mountain System consists of seven countries, the minister said, it must indeed stand out and respect the international relations of all these countries in the protection and sustainable development of Karpat. We are talking here, and this is mostly where MPs can speak and speak their opinions. It is not so common to enter the institutions of executive bodies, so this is a unique opportunity for us to present our opinions and some of our proposals. I as a representative of Green Serbia very often, with criticisms I have and my opinions and solutions, so we are very pleased, since we have been talking about the return of the fund for three years, which will finally be returned either as budgetary or as purposeful. We've talked for three years, because this is the only opportunity, to create a national adaptation strategy for climate change. Now, the Climate Change Council is also talking about it, and through these protocols, climate change is being mentioned, especially with regard to forest conventions and forest management. I myself have over hundreds of parliamentary questions in writing. The good part of them is never answered. I've been talking about these three years, and I'm not talking about your ministry. I have parliamentary questions for all ministries and there is almost no talk in the public about parliamentary issues that are in written form, but only about those promotional parliamentary issues when MPs issue oral questions. The objectives of these Protocols on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians are to manage the resources of the Carpathians and they cannot and should not be realised. They should not be dependent on only one side, but we must also show good will by confirming and participating in these protocols and that we may still not have enough capacity or have them, but that maybe some initiatives are going with Serbia, that these seven countries include in the best way to potentiate cross-border co-operation. The need for cross-border co-operation and joint efforts aimed at achieving objectives and activities towards environmental protection and sustainable development of Karpat. Confirmation and initiative to confirm the Sustainable Forest Management Protocol with the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development is a promotion of sustainable management and protection of the Carpathian forests. This Karpathic process, although formally subregional, has been initiated and supervised, if I am not mistaken, by UNEP, VVEF, UNC, EU and other international organisations, and the protocol fully fits into other EU integration flows. It is primarily important to us as green raising awareness of the multifunctional character of the forest, and we have talked in one of the public hearings in the last few months about this importance of the forest and here it is particularly important when we talk about this Carpathian mass because a large number of floods come from that area. We want the pressure on forest eco systems to be kept within the limits of reality and to try to preserve forests in the Carpathians because they primarily contribute to rural development and the preservation of biodiversity. In all of this, Serbia is, I believe, relying on international conventions on sustainable development and the Convention on the Protection of the Environment, above all on the Rio Declaration, the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development, the UN Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol, the Convention on Biodiversity, the Resolution of the Ministerial Convention on the Protection of Forests in Europe, the Convention on the Conservation and Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and the European Convention on the Area, with the aim of protecting the conservation and sustainable management of the Carpathian Forests. It is a very important regional co-operation and I have several concrete proposals, regardless of what we support, and we think that perhaps our proposals can improve the status of the Serbian state in this regional co-operation. We agree with the general objectives on sustainable forest management and it is important to promote sustainable management and protection of the Carpathian forests, preserve and increase areas under forests, ensure the production functions of forests and their roles in rural development, promotion and rational use of forests as ecological and renewable materials and resources. In Serbia, in the past decades, it has not always been the best way to manage forests, and that is the challenge ahead. Sustainable use of non-wood forest products as one of Serbia's economic potentials, which is not too much worked on, and precisely these small business activities from organic agriculture to forest fruits, medicinal plants may be the small developmental chance of Serbia and Green Serbia thinking that thousands of small chances are more important than waiting for one big one that may never happen. Improving the forest sectors to mitigate climate change, which is very important, improving forest protection function, if flood prevention, gliding and water circulation regulation are in nature. Through the provision of production functions, forests can also increase their role in rural development, of course through certain new economic policies. Given the importance of this protocol and its relying on the principle of sustainable use of forests and forest ecosystems, Green Serbia will support its adoption, as well as the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia will support the entire set of these protocols. Of course, there remains an open issue of strengthening and ways to involve local self-governments to help in the part of Serbia that falls under the karpathic part and that we may also help to develop these municipalities, given that they are mostly rural, in a better, more sustainable and perhaps more perspective. So as a representative of the Green Serbs here, I suggest a few points that might help implement these Carpathian conventions. One of the protocols which requires members of the Convention to prevent the introduction of genetically modified organisms, as they pose a likely threat to biodiversity and the environment of Karpat. This is Article 21 d). We think this is a principle that is very important and we think Serbia's chance is precisely in agricultural production that will differ from mass agricultural production, from e.g. Ukraine, that has just been developing in healthy food, biologically valuable and organic agriculture. That is why we also believe that, when it comes to the production of honey, when it comes to biodiversity, we believe that the introduction of GMOs into Serbia's environment is unacceptable. We propose a forum of stakeholders to discuss the report on the negative impact of projects, programmes and activities in the area of tourism on the environment of the Karpat area. My proposal is that this forum may be chaired by the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, without consulting him, I present this proposal. We also propose to implement an initiative to form an interstate forum to consider the assessment of negative impacts for the entire Karpat area, co-ordinated by the chairman of the Parliamentary Committees on Environmental Protection, as well as the most called for to implement the Archus Convention and the Convention on Biological Variety. It seems to me that stronger Serbia's international activity on the ecological plan can also improve Serbia's general image. Money from part of tourism revenue may also be provided for the purpose of preserving and improving environmental protection and improving biodiversity in the development of the Karpathian mountains. The law confirming the Sustainable Forest Management Protocol, we have some suggestions here. Of course, you understand that these proposals were related to sustainable tourism with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat. Green Serbia is proposing that a professional forestry community be formed within the framework of sustainable forest management in Karpatima, perhaps we can call it a consortium of karpathic areas, which will constitute universities and institutes for forestry, which would prepare programmes, projects and assess their application in the Karpat area under the protocol. Of course, I only list and propose those who first come to me and of course there are places in these initiatives for other institutions that are not college or institute types. What is very important when we talk about sustainable forest management, and in Serbia close to 50% or perhaps more, are the private owners of the forest, we propose the formation of chambers of private forest owners in the Karpat area, which could participate in the implementation or application of the protocol, because private owners' participation is also required in an organised manner. These protocols show that they encourage us to drag private forest owners, so to speak, into this process and that sustainable forest management involves, of course, some economic benefits. Of course, private forest owners have that interest more pronounced than public forest managers. We think it's important to approach these questions in the right way. It seems to us that these initiatives can improve Serbia's position under these conventions. It's important that we participate, it's important that we be active actors. Seven countries participate in these initiatives, and one large part are EU members. Maybe we can steal some of their experiences, say so, or take over from them, but I'm sure we can make one part of the proposal ourselves. We can fix the way it works under the Carpathian Convention and maybe we can promote the state of Serbia as a serious partner, promote the state of Serbia as someone who wants to join the EU, but who is aware of the risks, the problems and our own shortcomings in professional terms, to answer all questions and all these challenges. It is important that in all these protocols, there is two-way cooperation in all these conventions. You must understand that it is mostly the place where MPs work, and that public hearing is where we can repair legislative activity. That's why calls for public hearings are very important to us. Your ministry generally responds to them regularly and generally takes part in a large number of public hearings. On the other hand, in line with all these things we discussed, I announce to you to start in April public hearing about climate change and the possibility of adapting Serbia to climate change, about EU experiences. At that public hearing, there will likely be guests from the European Parliament, MPs from the European Parliament who will share some of their experiences with us. There may also be someone from countries also joining the EU. Our proposal is to call our colleagues from the Balkan countries' parliaments and thus promote perhaps all these international activities, including adaptation to climate change as one Balkan project, because adaptation to climate change does not go in the narrow national circles because it is a matter of exceptional importance and because everyone in the Balkans together may be the easiest through environmental protection and ecology to show that we have overcome the conflicts we have had in the past and that we want to live in a better and safer EU for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23429	The word is made by MP Vesna Marijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister rightly expressed expectations that we, as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party and the opposition, would also support these protocols. With the right because the Democratic Party has always advocated the adoption of international agreements on the basis of which Serbia is involved in international development flows, which is also the case with today's international agreements ahead of us. What is one of the essential messages of these contracts, as well as many other conventions that we have adopted in this Assembly, is understanding in the modern world that the unique biological and cultural diversity of capital is both for economic development and for any possible social development. This Convention also extends certain principles, which I think are essential for many other processes, and above all I mean the process of European integration, but also for many other international processes in which Serbia is trying to engage today. It is, of course, the harmonisation of regulations, co-ordination with neighbours, cross-border co-operation, forest management, promotion of cultural heritage, I would like to highlight this in particular, the exchange of information and cooperation between institutions. In addition, these contracts, first of all, I think of two protocols that rely on the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, are also part of a global development concept that involves the integration of a large number of sectors and a large number of areas. I fear that, if we do not understand, both in the work of this government and in every other government and within Parliament, how important it is to approach these issues in one integrated way, I do not think we will manage to apply the regulations we are making in the best way possible. What I would like to emphasise is, in fact, in some ways I have, and I am afraid that in considering this integrated approach and understanding the concept of sustainable development is very often neglected by the importance of culture, at least in Serbia it is the case, but in the world it is becoming less and less a case. That is why I would also like to highlight and quote Article 17. A protocol relating to sustainable tourism, which speaks of the fact that part of tourism revenue is directed towards preserving cultural heritage. Personally, I think that this principle should exist and be applied to our national policy, when it comes to culture. I don't think there's enough integrated and system city and coordination between the resources in our government and parliament. As a result and as someone who is a little more involved in the field of culture in this congregation, I think it is important that we mention it. Also, I think it is important that today when we talk about such an important topic as environmental protection, such as the preservation of our forests, our natural resources, in the extreme line, the health of our citizens, I think it is very important to mention the shortcomings of the system that are still present in the implementation of our policy, and this is the lack of harmonisation of laws and regulations, the need to strengthen the institutional capacity for the development of legislation, it is necessary to strengthen the monitoring system and, of course, what is being talked about by fellow Karic and what is said and should be spoken about when it comes to this process, which is the adoption of a national environmental strategy. As pointed out in the government's explanation, the Carpathian process is, among other things, supervised by the European Union, given that we are in the accession process, i.e. we are a candidate for membership in the European Union, I think it is important to remind ourselves of the next. There are two chapters in the Progress Report, a report on Serbia's progress, which is directly related to the area we are talking about today, chapter 12 - food security, veterinary and phytosanitary policies, where among other things, the European Commission's latest report stresses that minor progress has been made in the area of food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy and that Serbia has made moderate progress in this area. Chapter 27, when it comes to the environment and climate change, emphasises the need to strengthen the participation and consultation of the general public in the decision-making process, which of course involves raising citizens' awareness of the importance of the environment. It is also stressed that, when it comes to climate change, the Republic of Serbia still does not have a comprehensive climate policy. Finally, as part of Chapter 27, only modest progress has been made in the areas of the environment and climate change, there is a need to strengthen administrative capacity and investment in strategic priorities. Why am I stressing this? I stress among other things, because it is my wish, as a People's MP, that in the discussions that we are having here, which should be constructive, regardless of what I do not want to reduce the right of the parliamentary majority, that the only argument used in considering any area that we are talking about here is that the previous government was disastrous and that it remains their only argument. I think it is no longer convincing to anyone, nor to the citizens of Serbia, and I fear it is the least convincing to those who negotiate and talk with us, when it comes to our progress in international and European integration. That is why, among other things, I have also quoted part of the European Commission's report and what is expected of us, referring to what the minister has rightly pointed out several times, which is the issue of implementation. We in this assembly have brought a huge number of conventions from various areas and I fear that we have not worked out enough mechanisms, I am talking about Parliament now, to really follow seriously how these conventions are applied, in the extreme line and to help the government, if necessary, to apply these standards. I would also like to quote the members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16 and Article 194, which says that rules, international rights and certified international agreements are considered an integral part of our legal order and are directly applied, also Article 74. The constitution, which guarantees that every citizen has the right to a healthy environment. The question arises – how did we talk about media freedom, how do we in Serbia today guarantee the highest principles that exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if they do not have direct sanctions? So we started to deal only with those norms that have direct sanctions, and we forgot what are the most important and important principles that are the basis of our constitutional order and the functioning of our society. That is why I would suggest that we also make a kind of agreement here in Parliament and strategy on how we will fundamentally, regularly monitor the application of the conventions that we have ratified. I also suggest that the committees in charge cooperate more with each other, that one is already offended, although not sufficiently applied, the practice of holding joint meetings of some committees, because at a modern point in time where problems are crossed, where regulations must be harmonised and where, as we said at the beginning, we are talking about exactly what the topic is today, and that is sustainable development, where there are a very large number of areas that intertwine, I think that there is also a need for progress in the Assembly itself, in parliament, to make sure that these important conventions and important principles are really and applied to the well-being of our citizens because, ultimately, it is always the most relevant of them. The Democratic Party, I repeat, will support the adoption of these international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23431	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23432	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, gentlemen, today we have a set of laws in front of us regarding the protection of certain ecosystems, the protection of forests, tourism, in line with this, but also protection from the veterinary field, the protection of animal health, plant quarantine and plant protection. With a set of laws that were here yesterday and today the subject of debate, they all show a great scope, but even greater importance of legislation from this area and their control, given that today we have a great dynamic of social life in all spheres, that there is a very developed traffic, every kind of trade, trade in goods and services, and in this respect is increased and in every respect more legal regulations present both in this area and in our overall attention. This sphere of work requires special attention and care, in order to protect human, animal and plant health in general, that means overall safe life. Just as the protection of human life must be taken into account, more and more must be taken into account and the protection of the plant and animal world and it must prevent any kind of development of those negative effects, diseases or chemical use in their use. Special attention today is also drawn to the topics relating to the Law on Confirmation of Sustainable Tourism and Karpat Development Protocol, as well as to sustainable forest management in this area. Why are we talking about this subject today? Of course, Karpati are a special mountain mass of the European-Asian continent, which has a special plant and animal community, the last habitat of some rare and already endangered animals in the European Union, such as Bear, wolf, lynx, etc., there are them in our forests, but it's rich in ores and water. The lives of people in this area, as we have heard, gathers seven states, is rich with ores, but also with all kinds of cultural traditions, diversity and excellence. However, given its overall natural and economic potential, this area or part of Europe is economically and socially inadequate, or underdeveloped. Carpathians' concern for the more intensive and international agenda began after 2000 and especially with the agreement and obligations of local communities adopted since 2003, when the Fifth Ministerial Conference was held, "The Living Environment for Europe", which was in Kiev. Other initiatives, proposals and agreements were further developed, and certain conferences were held, etc. They were, as we saw from the documents in 2002, 2003, 2006, in Kiev, 2008, in Bucharest, in 2010 in Poland and all these meetings of initiatives, conventions, etc., and the conference produced the Carpathian Convention as a basic base document which resulted in a series of agreements and protocols. The overall objective of this project is to strengthen and participate the public in the implementation and application of specific policies of the protection of this region and the development of certain areas of it, and I would like to remind here of the reputation of protecting the Alpine area that was promoted significantly earlier in Western Europe, 20 and more years ago. Certainly this area is touristic and in any other respect more modern in Europe, but this also indicates that other areas and regions should also have adequate policies, adequate protection and use of all available capacities and their available resources, but in a way that does not devastate the natural environment, do not abuse, destroy the water and their capacity, forests, but also does not go at the same time to the damage of the plant and animal world and especially the population that is inhabited in the area. This region of the Carpathian area is very geographical, we can say isolated, unique, special, specific, but it is present precisely because of these previous social problems, large population migration, high unemployment, and investments in this region are weak. All of this, by developing and applying certain agreements under this programme, under the Common Carpathian Convention, should encourage all peoples of the countries involved in this area to cooperate with each other, to invest more, to exchange knowledge and experience. By the way, when we talk about this area, it is an exceptional beauty, ecological value, ecological diversity and diversity of cultures of people and customs. That is exactly what the protection of these personalities provides for this framework convention as well as for each individual signed protocol. This concrete protocol encourages sustainable tourism to co-operate countries with every single legislative regulation, local community activities, promotion of local values of excellence, financial incentives, the development of a road economy with protection in every respect, employment of mutual incentives as well as the possibility of wider learning and knowledge, and development in other neighbouring areas, as in this case we have the development and application of knowledge related to the Carpathian Initiative and the Old Mountain. The adoption of such common objectives through legislation improves the lives of local communities, erases borders and directs and improves overall life. In any case, such knowledge and experience are important for our Serbia as well, and I think that in this sense it is of great importance to sign these protocols and these conventions. Each party, a participant, a signator of the Convention, or any agreement, means that it must take measures to facilitate co-operation and coordination, develop synergy, division of responsibility and overall movement towards the objective. In this case, we stress the obligation of the state and local environments to identify their advantages, which means for us also an active role in this part, to make appropriate programmes and offers on a broader plan of action and initiatives that would go towards development. These are the advantages of the region's development in this case when we talk about Karpatima, primarily the Gerdapian gorge, Timočka krajina and the entire eastern Serbia. This area, in any case, and on our internal but also on the international agenda, requires more attention from us because in every respect, it is rich in exceptional resources and exceptional capacities. It's certainly the guardian of an untapped treasure. What do we need for that? Roads, tourist facilities, programs, awareness of it and education. In this respect, it would also be a significant policy for the sustainability of forests, agriculture, conservation of animals in this area, and all in favour of better and more developed life in this area. At this moment, we also focus on the Protocol on sustainable management of the Karpat forests, which means preserving the biodiversity of productivity, vitality of the forest, preserving regeneration, developing economic, ecological and social functions on a local and general scale. The adopted objectives and principles of this policy set out in the objectives and incentives are applicable to all areas and parts of Serbia, all parts of the Forest, and are directed towards possible and wider developments, and above all to planning, forest management. Some of these principles exist anyway. Some parts of Serbia according to this model and similar in any case are known developed, affirmed, so I will highlight here the importance of Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Tara, Zasavica, by its characteristics and characteristics, but I would say, for example, that these skills are not used enough when it comes to the areas of Zlatar, Sjenica, Shara, which suggests future models that we can adopt from this example, apply in other areas and areas of life in Serbia. When it comes to these great strategic goals, I would also say a few things about the minor, everyday problems we're used to, which we see in our environment. Sometimes because we're used to them, we may not see them, and we don't pay enough attention to them. That was the point when it comes to the overall debate today, which is the protection and conservation of the environment, its regularity in every respect. But when we talk about these topics, whether it's a set of previous laws or these today, we're not, for example. Not in any part of the document or our policy spoke actively about the consequences of the bombing on Serbia and the protection in life, in that part because it is in any case very difficult. We do not speak, I believe, enough in this regard, as Serbia, we do not have enough data, and we do not speak actively enough with the international community in that direction. The policies that are developing are heading towards expanding the responsibilities of environmental protection, but I think that there is also a cynicism of the international community that is not talking about and supporting this problem anywhere. This is usually a problem that has not been developed in our previous period and when it is about protecting the overall policy, protecting the environment, we are unfortunately always facing the problem, that there is little money, insufficient concerns, lack of knowledge, lack of responsibility and awareness, lack of education, insufficient goals and projects. It's one condition that's been going on for many years, it's inherited and it's true that it can't be adequately discussed in the short term in terms of spotting concrete effects and improving it. True, we have to figure out in the previous years, we've missed a lot, we've made a lot of promises, we've promoted through the campaign, we've used resources and resources, but with very little effects. The inherited condition is complex and the effects are not enough for now. Serbia's problem is a lack, I think, in a long number of years of national goal, political tolerance and all of one total national responsibility. I would say, by analysing today's and yesterday's work and today's laws that we are discussing that this ministry has been responsibly engaged in solving the problem, by giving answers to long-term unresolved issues, systematically part by piece, of course not all of which can be resolved at once, but also by creating an efficient system and development, both in the area of the protection of agriculture, the environment and in the field of environmental protection and other conditions. It's rare, I have to say, the minister, based on what I have, who goes into his business directly to the farm, goes to the agricultural well-being, the milkman, the forest land, stays on the ground, stays on the ground, and at the time of the flood. I would say that there is a difference when a particular portfolio is run by a minister who is absolutely professionally competent, such as, in this case, Dr. Science and Professor of the Faculty of Agriculture, and quite different when it is, however, a minister who is from some other field of profession and its jurisdiction. In any case, we can see that today's laws on the validation of protocols and agreements came after an average waiting of three to five years for them to confirm these laws, although I believe when it comes to agreements and their adoption and their confirmation, it takes only a few months for the government or a certain ministry to come to the Assembly. This shows the ministry's determination to respond quickly and efficiently to each of its individual problems. In that sense, I would also support them on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to say that we will vote in any case for these proposed laws, to give them full support, as well as other laws that I have not dealt with at this time, which is the protection of veterinary materials with Uruguay, animal health protection with Algeria, plant protection, plant quarantine with Ukraine, etc. All of them of great importance, each for their own area and by adopting it becomes part of our legal regulation, I would agree, it must be much greater control of their application and their resuscitation in direct life, in order to protect human health, life and the overall environment. In that sense, any support from the Ministry of Agriculture and at its further steps it will take in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23433	Thank you, too. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now set a break of one hour, i.e. we continue to work at 15 hours, hour and 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I will certainly support these bill proposals, given that they are from the field of agriculture and four of these proposals, or three of these proposals were also subject to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, where reports were unanimously accepted. As for the proposal to confirm the agreement and contract, I must say that they are mostly from 2011, and one from 2012. As far as I know, the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine, concluded on 06.06.2013. Therefore, I do not see any reason why these laws on the confirmation of agreements and contracts are not accepted by opposition MPs, since the contracts we are confirming today are signed by authorised persons during the rule of some other parties, and almost all of them, except one since before May 2012. The laws are very important because the two laws in the veterinary field are a confirmation of the veterinary agreement. One is in the framework of plant protection and quarantine, and two laws refer to the Carpathian area, and I will also start on the sustainable development of Karpat, i.e. sustainable tourism and sustainable forest management. The Carpathian area covers seven countries. One and the other laws are very important, since, in order to protect the environment, the quality of air is affected in general by forests and the karpathic area covered by seven countries, in the area covered by seven countries, therefore, in which seven countries, Hungary, Poland, Ukraine, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania and Serbia are involved. They are therefore signatories of these agreements, and they have an appropriate interest in implementing this agreement, above all, in the areas of agricultural development, and in particular those of small agricultural holdings that have been shown and which are based on their agricultural production and in the Karpat area. I think that through the development of tourism and the resuscitation of forests, because of the forest fruits and everything else that the forests bear, it can be economically, socially very productive, to bring certain income to the population living in these areas without being at the heart of environmental protection. Agriculture is a great opportunity, except for agricultural plant production, except for natural tourism, hunting tourism and everything else. I think there's also room for the processing of certain agricultural products, forest plants, medicinal plants and so on. I think it fits the UN strategy that in 2014 it was special, the EU is turning towards small agricultural holdings and believes that they are a new opportunity for employment, not only in agricultural production, but also in the processing work that must be as close as possible to the place of production. I think that agricultural production in Serbia should be turned to these small agricultural holdings at the moment, and in Serbia there are over 600,000 of them, out of 750,000 in the last 14 years. In the last 12 years, by 2012, we've lost 150 thousand agricultural holdings, mostly small and I think they can be extremely sustainable through production specialization. As for this piece in the wind, I'm going to tie it exactly to those small agricultural holdings with the previous two draft laws that cover the Karpathian area and say that we need to coordinate our legal procedure, that I agree with the evaluations on these agreements and agreements with the MPs of the opposition, but I think they've made some mistakes that this government and this ministry must remove. First of all, I'm thinking about the chance to develop small agricultural holdings and someone who says that, and a few years ago in 2011, the Animal Wellbeing Act prohibits the breeding of chinchilla fur, neuter and nutritious animals for the production of fur. Someone who banned this type of production has thus threatened it, i.e. it will be banned from 2018 and 2019, thus denying the possibility to interest several hundred more owners who, in a very small space, are engaged in the farming production of chinchilla furs, necrèva and internalities, are making a significant income, thereby contributing to the country's achieving significant foreign surpluses, but someone has found himself condescending to ban fur production, while not restricting the import of fur coats. So fur coats can be imported, but since 2018, 2019 we won't be able to produce chinchillas, nerves for fur. We didn't protect these species, we didn't do anything, we just limited the possibility that the smallest agricultural holdings on a very small property make significant income and thus support themselves, their family, and, of course, through taxes and contributions create preconditions for this country to support itself from its incomes. If we want to resuscitate the Carpathian area, if we want to resuscitate small agricultural holdings, in such situations we must avoid passing laws that are harmful and that the EU has not prescribed that we have to bring them back because more than half of the countries are dealing with fur growing for fur, but here we find ourselves smart to ban it in such a way, importing several hundred farmers. Also, since the forests are at stake, I must draw attention to the ministry that truffles are no longer obtained only in harvesting forest fruits, but that they are also produced by contesting the roots of hazelnuts during planting. Therefore, they are produced in such a way as to correct the inherited rules prohibiting, or restricting the export of truffles to a certain quantity. This wanted to protect forest treasure, however, in the past few years there are people who have been dealing with the production of truffles through the planting of hazelnuts and are doing it quite successfully, so instead of legally exporting this type of mushrooms, we have to watch the producers of truffles smuggle it and mostly smuggle it out because someone remembered to limit that export before this government and limit it to fewer quantities than it was during Obrenović. So, we have a number of regulations, contracts and agreements that are not productive, unlike those that, through forest protection and sustainable tourism in Karpats, can be made to a population that is in rather devastation, rural areas to bring a chance to stay through agricultural production, to supplement their income through tourism, and if the processing of these agricultural products of forest plants and medicinal plants is done, in such circumstances they get their families a chance to stay and to no longer go to industrial dead cities, that our territories are not emptied, because if our territories empty that territory sooner or later take up some people. I know there's no more room in the kindergartens in Belgrade, that the big cities don't lose their population, but that's why the small environments of hundreds of villages, and now smaller townships disappear in front of our eyes, and if this continues, the future of agriculture and villages will be a disaster. That's why we need to break up with some devastating proposals, with laws, with all kinds of regulations. All of this needs to be reconsidered, that they be in favour of the state, or for the benefit of the population who, in difficult conditions, tries to make the agricultural product quite good, quite healthy. I think it's our chance to find a job through the processing industry for both the son and the father, that we can find a job for the father in the field, son to work and process, or to deal with reprocessing activities, to make it as close as possible to the place of agricultural production and thus save and on the way to the labour force, in this way to disbursement cities that, by the arrival of the new population, have to expand the infrastructure, to make costs for themselves. I like Belgrade to be a beautiful, decorated city. I like it to be both Kragujevac and Nis, but it should not be at the expense of the rural population, that the village is not displaced, that we do not have a population that wanders the suburbs unemployably, but that those living in the village should be kept, and that those who own some of their own possessions have some prospect of returning from the cities to their fathers and grandfathers' estates, and in such a way being satisfied with both the city and the village, to raise the quality of life in the country, to be approached to the city. I think that's the kind of situation the state would win. Therefore, there would be no uninhabited areas, and on the other hand, cities that are overcrowded and which do not have an industrial background, or have no basis for the preservation of population standards in cities. I like the city to be nice and clean, I like to have an adequate number of residents, but we also have to make sure that future laws, such as these few, keep the population in rural areas, first of all in those areas where small agricultural holdings, where organic food can be produced, as one colleague said before, but I don't agree that we have two brains. When we are opposition, then we have about what we would do if we were the government and it's mostly the right thing to do, and that's why I support the opposition's views under these laws, but while they were in power, they didn't really care that much. I remember that there are genetically modified organisms here that are not meant to be in the Karpat areas, I agree with that, but the MP who spoke in the 2012 election campaign, together with the voter, spoke about new genetic trends in food production. So that goes back to what they did when they were in power, because they were planning new genetic modulations, they were planning plant and genetically modified organisms, but the moment they went into opposition they changed their attitudes completely. I support that change of attitude, but for the record, it was a major threat to these genetically modified organisms, to win in 2012, to continue. It is also unacceptable, we have to take care of this, these days cattlemen are particularly active in importing pig meat, that we have to take care of how pigs are fed in the EU, whether they feed on genetically modified organisms, from that kind of livestock food that is 30% cheaper in production than those produced by us. So, our cattle stock feeds on perfectly correct unmodified organisms, quite proper livestock food, but I'm afraid that the cattle we currently import and the meat we import, primarily from developed countries and EU countries, that these cattle are grown by genetically modified organisms and through a diet such meat is nevertheless obtained by feeding cattle from genetically modified food. I don't know how it's supposed to be examined. This is a question for the Veterinary Administration, in which to exercise control, but our cattlemen rightly protest and seek a certain type of protection, since production, for example, soybean, which is not genetically modified, is 30% more expensive than if produced genetically modified, as in some countries it is produced. If meat is imported from these countries, which seems to me in 2007 or 2008, during the rule of the former regime, even genetically modified soybeans, or shotguns from genetically modified soybeans, are imported into our country, and our farmers are prohibited from that type of production. I agree that it will be banned, but when imports make sure that we don't punish our cattlemen in favour of foreign farmers, because I think it's too much to export three, three and a half million tons of corn, hundreds of thousands of tons of soybeans, hundreds of thousands of tons of cattle flour, because it's about impulses that we can produce, so these are raw materials that can produce about a million tons of live scales, which would be about a billion pounds. That value would be close to two billion. I think what we're producing about corn, soy, cattle flour, etc. We should use it for our livestock industry, for cattle farmers to earn some money, and for the slaughterhouse industry, which works with 30% capacity, to be fully employed through the development of small agricultural holdings, because it is not true that the EU is made up of only large agricultural holdings. Over 70% of the property is less than 10 hectares, and in Greece, Italy, over 70% of the property is less than five hectares. It's almost the same structure as in Serbia. I think that, unlike some former governments and ministers, we must turn around and allow specialisation of small agricultural land and that they are in some way not technologically surpluses, so that they are not considered unproductive, that they can and on their property produce a good, quality product, because it is no secret that a hectare of plastics can produce vegetables and up to 100,000 euros per hectare. If the agricultural land has five members, it can employ another five family members, five others. 10 people can work on one hectare. If we pack it all up, rework it, in such a way we can not only develop agricultural production, but also employ labour, so that what farmers produce, workers process and that every income earned by honest work, sweat and effort, that brothers by torture, brothers by sweat take to their families. It's time to break up with the losers' policies, no matter how much it costs us. These agreements are a step in the right direction. As far as veterinary matters are concerned, it's very important, given that a certain number of animal diseases shifts to humans. I don't need to talk about swine flu, bird flu, etc. Extremely high standards should be kept in the wind, because it directly affects food safety. We have to keep it high, given that we are a agricultural country and that we can base our economic development on agriculture, the food industry, mostly on livestock farming, processing and that the accompanying activities only serve, because I think agriculture and the processing industry are two branches that this country can support better than gold bars and diamonds. As far as the Plant Protection Act is concerned, it's very important because of the harmful organisms and quarantines that must be tied to it. I believe our phytosanitary control is still doing business on a pretty high level. I think this agreement with Ukraine can contribute to doing it even better. I think that in the Veterinary Administration, we can produce a significantly better result and try to raise some of the standards, import as little meat as possible of the third category, frozen meat, and the more we produce domestic livestock, the more our slaughter industry is supplied with cattle, pigs, cattle, to supply from our agricultural land, to develop the dairy industry, because it is also threatened by the threat. I support every effort by the Government in the intensities that our agricultural production is in line with the SAA, to be based on an article. In 32nd and 41st maximum protection of domestic agricultural production, since this agreement allows us, above all, in dairy, cheese production, and of course, by introducing extra-tariff measures and levies to protect livestock production in Serbia, to introduce seasonal and permanent levies, and in such a way that even if the same chance to our agricultural producers and the future future of the village is not a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-04-0.u23436	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) Dear People's MPs, today we finish our work and continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes a word, to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Cortic. Here you go.
