ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29079	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 111 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatization. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric, Dr Ivan Bauer, Branko Ružic and Stefana Miladanovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Željko Sertić, Minister of Industry; Jelena Popović, Assistant Minister of Industry; Milun Trivunac, Deputy Minister of Industry; Ljubomir Šubara, Director of the Privatisation Agency; Dragan Ugrčić, Director of the Centre for Privatisation; Jelena Arsić and Andrijana Stojković, Senior Legal Advisors at the Privatisation Agency; Marko Obradović, Special Advisor of the Minister of Industry; Stojanka Vukković, Head of the Department of the Privatisation Agency and Jovan Petrović, Group Manager at the Ministry of Industry. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Zoran Babić, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Ivan Jovanovic, Balša Božović, Goran Ćirić, Vladimir Pavićić, Zoran Zivković, Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Kosanovic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Marković, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olen Papug, Nada Lazić, Djordžje Stojšić and Mr Dejan Čača Čapo. You have received a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, with corrections, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Dr Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29080	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, above all to thank the Minister for having the understanding that in the principle debate we had held, we put a special emphasis on certain companies that we consider to be large strategic firms that have been large in recent years, regardless of all their problems and old debts that they have managed for the last two years, surely to make big traffic, or large revenues. Of course, nothing stops overnight in the economy, that these debts remain, but in some ways it has proved that in these most difficult moments, big income companies are able to function really in the capital market the way they do. That is why we felt that through this amendment my colleague Babic and I should really implement in this law this need for the state to take care of these large enterprises, large business entities, especially as they employ a large number of employees by nature. This concern is one of our great responsibility that in the future in the capital market which, with great competition, they must survive, the simple state is now helping them, and this assistance consists in a special way and under specific programmes, simply taking care of how privatisation will be done, but also finding strategic partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29081	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29082	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and honored guests, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 where the words "2013". They replace the year with the words "2014". the year." Since you know that the last deadline of December 31st 2015 for the completion of the privatisation process is what is not clear is the moment when you showed courage and entered a sinking ship, you, as a great patriot, tried to contribute with some of your experience and knowledge to Serbia's economy as much as you can to life. Why don't you tell the truth to the citizens to the end? The privatisation will not be completed within this time frame, it is already clear to you that although you have successfully washed your predecessor, Mr Vujovic, I think Mr Vujovic would be extremely grateful today that the DS has been accepted by most of the amendments you received nine months ago by the DS Parliament Club, these changes would not be necessary today and I think that together we could bring a better solution when it comes to the completion of the privatisation process. This is how it remains unclear whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has any power at all and whether it has any knowledge to carry out this process to the end, I deeply believe that it does not. I think you believe that there is no, although in your intention as minister I have no doubt and I think that you faced it even though you were at the head of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and you knew the problem of the Serbian economy. I think you just found out what the problem is the moment you became Minister of Economy. I believe that, for this reason, this amendment should be adopted in order to come out more clearly and more precisely in front of Serbian citizens with some plan brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29083	I thank Mr. Bozovic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29084	First, I want to thank all the MPs who have made amendments in these last two days and thus tried to contribute to making these laws both better and more content. There are objections, i.e. amendments and by MPs of the ruling coalition that have been accepted. We also have amendments by MPs who make up the opposition, also which are accepted, and indeed in good faith and intent to improve the law at least in some shades that can sometimes mean a lot. As far as this member is concerned, there's only one thing I want to make clear to you and to the citizens, and we've repeated it many times, but by some rule things are repeated. Terminologically, the law defined that by 31 December 2015 social capital must be transformed into something other than the privatisation process. So this law is not defined by the deadline. I will remind you that today and in the EU, you have state-owned companies that can be sold tomorrow through actions or other models of the realization of their businesses, without talking about countries that were in a completely different economic environment by yesterday. You're here asking us to put the last fair value estimate on 2014. We left it open, because if it happens in January or February of the following year we publish one of the companies, which we put on this list and the very essence of our proposals, is to allow for these 17 large companies space to do our jobs over the next year. It is natural that they also have a new assessment on December 31st 2015. Then we'd have to come back here in front of you again, looking for changes and additions to the law, which I don't think is necessary. On the other hand, I fully understand your need to speed up this process, end these amendments, and the whole law goes that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29085	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29086	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, of course, I suggest not to accept the amendment for the simple reason that the argument was in a certain way very arrogant. When someone says, "Minister, you've entered a sinking ship," he forgets to say, "Why is that ship sinking, who torpedoed it?" Who has led a ship called the Republic of Serbia's economy since 2000 to so many holes that it has to sink in every way in the last two years, that as long as it can sail and carry a population standard that is ever smaller and smaller. The economic situation we encountered in mid-2012 was catastrophic. That ship was abandoned by those biggest pacs on board. To remind me that on that ship, they were getting so worked up by the financial directors of the former regime's party buying, say, the last sugars made in the Republic of Serbia, that they were buying three-euro sugars, that it was Bac, Kovacica and Pecinci, and that only the one in Kovacica had eightm euros in sugar supplies. You will be the financial director of one party, remove three euros and receive an eightm-euro sugar dowry. To remind them that the same to their financial director of the former regime, whenever he needed money, allowed the government's conclusions to keep a certain amount of sugar, let's say, one 15,000 tonnes to sell to the government by 80 dinars, no matter what sugar is today 50 dinars, keep both sugar and money and still pay for it. It was a model of behaviour towards the economy, according to that ship, which, as my colleague says, is sinking, except they didn't say that they submerged it in one savage way, so that a lot of jobs were cleaned up, nearly 400,000 people were left empty stomachs and empty pockets, on the income side they were transferred to the expenditure side, instead of making and receiving salaries, paying contributions to make pensions bigger, etc., they were forced to be expenditure, to be social cases, that the state was spending on them instead of income, and then the ones who destroyed them and began to whine over their fate. Forgive me, it seems to me like when you kill a man, and then you come to his grave and you complain, and you see how the villains killed him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29087	Thank you. The word is by MP Dragomir Karic and then by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29088	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, when it comes to privatisation and the form of privatisation, whether the state should have a share in the capital of the company and whether the state should be even the owner of certain enterprises, not only in public, has been resolved long ago. I'm only going to give one example, so there's no error, and we don't spread the subject further. Here, one of the fresher examples, for example, Norway, Norway's Telenor, which is an operator in Serbia, is the state's 100% owner of Telenor. It didn't bother that the state was involved here in the tender, i.e. "Telenor" and to buy a former operator, the Serbian operator "Mobtel". For example, I remember then, one reason for selling "Mobtel" was that the state couldn't be a participant in two companies or more companies, etc. I'd just like to say this, the state can also be a good boss, manage well, manage well. Secondly, given this global economic situation and crisis, we all realize that there is practically no state today in a world where there is no state intervention. In that sense, Mr. Minister, I fully support all your efforts and agree with Mr. Balsha that you must have inherited a great, difficult burden. But that's your job. We as a Committee on Economic Affairs, I as a People's MP, support you completely and remains only to watch how to help you specifically as a Ministry with our proposals so that many difficult words are not said here. Normally, everyone has the right to fight for their own idea, for their own program. Anyway, what you inherited, what's been done in the last 15 years, is real for everyone, let me say, judgment. You simply inherited one situation from which much stronger states would find it difficult to find the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29089	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29090	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable ministers, the honored guests, as a small number of members are complemented, that is to say, there are a small number of amendments, and what we wanted to say is more or less present in each of the amendments that we have proposed. In addition to being a fourth year in office and I understand that nine months we haven't moved from a dead spot, and somewhere I can understand you because of the previous three years of devastating country and economy and by your predecessors, I think your situation is so much harder and worse for you personally, but who will take responsibility for these past three years? We are entering the fourth year of the government's term, despite the fact that you have not been a minister for four years, but for four years, Serbian citizens expect some improvement. Four years have passed, and according to the NBS, 45,000 citizens are less busy than they did in 2012. So, we have a big problem explaining to the citizens of Serbia, or you as a government, where this process has been stalled. Obviously, we are not telling citizens the absolute truth, 25 000 citizens are working in 17 strategic enterprises, defined by the government. The question is – is this how bankruptcy is being applied after an extraordinary parliamentary election? Is the implementation of bankruptcy in these companies delayed because 25,000 SNS votes are expected in the elections, and the day after the early parliamentary elections, these people will be out of work? Can we, meanwhile, find a strategic solution for these companies and these companies? Can we re-launch these businesses to the economy? Do you, as minister, have the ability to do so or are we just postponing, delaying, postponing until the next election, when these workers will have to vote for you, and then the day after, as Cori Udovici announced a few days ago, we will announce that there are still extra employees and that we have to fire these employees? As Mr Vujovic said nine months ago, here's a transcript, nine months ago, all to spend 800m euros on these companies, or, as he said then, we're throwing these funds irrevocably, to protect some jobs. Since you said the government is saving, that this time we don't have enough resources, does that mean quite certain that these 25,000 workers will be out of a job? How can they be sure that you'll find a strategic partner, if you haven't done it in the last nine months, or your previous couldn't have done it in the last three years? I want to tell you that trust in this plan is very low in the citizens of Serbia. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29091	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29092	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with guests from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, of course this amendment should be rejected, and to remind a respected colleague, so for 20 years you've done nothing smart, 526 privatisations, so what have you done, 234, you've taken the companies, you're naked, and you've returned to the state. You're a disgrace. Fifty companies owe four billion euros. My dear colleague, what are we talking about here? We need a deadline by October 31st for 40 companies. We've prepared the paperwork in two years for 40 companies, and you owe four billion to 50 companies, and where are the remaining debts? We're looking for a little deadline. As far as the company is concerned, of course we've done a social program and of course no one's going to lose their job. We've set aside 1.8 billion unlike you, and all people will get jobs. In the next amendment, I'll get back to you, and I'll talk about companies of strategic importance. There are 17 of them, and they're all doing well, and they're in the process of finding a partner again. Not to mention the tax-paying jumko, who has income, who employs 1700 workers. What are you guys talking about, just a reminder? You cannot accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29093	The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29094	Your Honor, I am in favour of this amendment being rejected. I'll tell you the reasons for that. I think that when something is done in a hurry, as it was in 2000, it is particularly felt by employees and workers in these companies. Here's an example for that. The best example of this is my Vladimirs who disappeared overnight by the company, who were privatized overnight and disappeared overnight. In the successful privatisation of the 2000s, about 1,500 workers were out of work in Vladimirci. I think you're right when you asked for a certain deadline for these privatisations to be implemented as successfully as possible, because as our people say – which is fast, it's short. I think you're absolutely right and that's why we can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29095	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. You have no right to a replica, only by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29096	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I think I was entitled to a replica, but good. You're assessing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29097	You didn't mention it. You think you were mentioned by the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29098	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: She addressed him directly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29099	Is his name mentioned? Mr. Bradic, no, don't, read a little Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29100	I recognized myself in the presentation of my colleague when she said - dear colleague. What the previous speaker said and what is somewhere the whole theme of our debate and debate is the mention of privatisation since 2000, and I will remind you that privatisation was started in 1988, i.e. the transformation of property when it comes to the former Yugoslavia. Many privatisation ministers had this ruling majority, some of them Milan Beko and Mrs Jorvanka Tabakovic, but we're not going to talk about it right now. What is important is that this is another law that Mr Vujovic, as today's finance minister, said is reform law, so all these reform laws have contributed to our participation in public debt in GDP by over 73% today. That's not much to you, given the last time you were in power, that participation was 201.2%, so you probably don't have a lot of 73%, but 10 billion euros in debt to Serbia due to these reform courses by the government of the Republic of Serbia over the last three years. What's also important is that industrial production decreased by 7%, and I'm sure you're familiar with that, as Minister of Industry, Mr Sertic. Forty-five thousand workers have worked less in the last three years than in 2012, and the source for that is, of course, the National Bank of Serbia, which continues to be run by the party key. Also, this is a year of recession. It will be next, according to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. What is also very symptomatic, every reform law has brought Serbia 10 steps back. We are only interested in how this amendment to the Privatisation Act will preserve 25,000 jobs in 17 strategic enterprises. You yourself know that the deadline is delayed by one year from the day of adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law, and only because of the extraordinary parliamentary elections, to convince workers in Serbia that their jobs have been preserved, and the day after that, of these 17 strategic, so-called companies, there will be nothing left. All 25 thousand workers will remain on the street. What is also very important, and you have not told the citizens of Serbia, is that there is no concept and this here is something that does not look like strategic planning. From today to tomorrow, some leaders of the ruling majority said they oppose the privatisation of Telecom. The DS privatisation of Telecom is also opposed. You don't even know what your plan is, or what you really want to achieve with these amendments and additions to the law. You do not agree with the citizens of Serbia what your goal is. Is this an introduction to "Telecoma" privatisation, where will the funds be spent again in one of the next campaigns? We think it is, and we'll be strictly against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29101	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29102	I don't think a colleague who supported the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic on the privatisation of Telecom has the right to speak, because the privatisation and offer we received, which was humiliating, was to be used for the 2012 campaign. Many privatisation models have been mentioned. In one piece, I did not agree with privatisation and the Privatisation Act, which was then proposed by Jorgenka Tabakovic, as the competent minister. One of the companies under the law is privatized. It's a Bambi Fireman. Now I ask colleagues from the former regime – do they know that "Bambi" Fireman is still working? They forgot that it no longer works, let's say, "The Dragon" that no longer works IMR, that the meat industry "The Fireman doesn't exist, that "The Sugar Factory" the Fireman doesn't exist, that the Farm Machine Factory doesn't exist. Should I count on it? The colleague who submitted this amendment did not worry about 400,000 jobs. Why didn't you talk about it then? We'll also talk about your next amendment, but I'm asking one other question, which is what I said in principle, the aim of the law passed by DS, while the minister was Vlahovic, and the DSS, while the Prime Minister was Kostunica, is that for small money, businesses are bought, their assets are being robbed, they're in debt to business banks, and then they return to the Republic of Serbia, which will continue to support these companies, to cover their losses until that healthy part of the economy comes to order. Each and every one of us has the right to his political position and political opinion. There's only one problem. How much is a man in his soul willing to trample his own personal beliefs for the politics of his political party? I was here as an MP, a colleague of the DOS, who entered this congregation with the ragged and torn jeans, with holes in shoe soles, and today, more training is more expensive than my annual salary. Do we want to talk about related public affairs individuals for the City of Belgrade? What were they winning at the tender? In what procedure? Negotiating? You sit down three punks and agree what price it's gonna be, so somebody gets a job 10 times as expensive as it's real worth. We want to talk about companies that are of strategic importance, we want to talk about, say, "Hydrogradja" and "Erosija" from Požarevac, a company that has maintained for the needs of Đerdap, the coast of Danube, from Smederev to Donji Milanovac? Where's your company now? Sold in privatisation, scattered assets, returned to the Republic of Serbia, and now in bankruptcy. Well, where are those workers from that company, why didn't the amendment bearer worry about it at the time? There's another problem, since it's the Danube coast, which you're surprised when it comes to floods, so we no longer have a company that, with its equipment and professional labour, can protect the settlements from the Danube in the move. I see it's all funny to you. If I were you, I'd get out of this room and never deal with politics and false demagogy again. It's just, I'm lucky I'm not in your shoes, and we're doing something for this country to start the business at last. So I submit the amendment has said – that this government and those previous ones since 2012 are trying in every way to raise a ruined economy. Well, what is it, but a confession for everything that the DS has done in the past 12, 13 years while she's in power? I don't see any difference, and don't spill any ash between the two DSs, one was parliamentary, no more. That's what's waiting for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29103	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29104	Thank you, Mr. Becic. The Serbian Progressive Party is in power today for the fourth year. You're saying you're trying to finally start a business. Don't bother anymore. You haven't done anything in four years. There are more and more jobless workers, fewer who have the hope of staying in Serbia and getting employment. If we're talking about privatization of 24 disputed, since the SNS is in power, I invite you, so honorable and fair, to question each of those 24, that those who have violated the law to bring them to justice. I would personally do that if I were you. Only of those 24, 23 were during the rule of Vojislav Kostunica. Some were annulled when they were led by your ministers such as Milan Bek, Jorgenka Tabakovic, but in any case I stand behind that every corruption must be brought to justice, each. And when you talk about MPs, when you talk about those in the executive power who came with holes in their shoes, and today they wear watches of several tens of thousands of euros, I suggest you turn around a little bit and look amongst your ranks, Mr. Arsic. We would not like the privatisation in Serbia to continue as those 24 in dispute or as the one that represented yours, when we sold a hotel in Kopalnik for 600,000 dollars less than paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to your comrades from the Emirates.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29105	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29107	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29108	You know what, there are those who exercise power and it's not just the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are privatisation agencies. It seems to me the very privatisations were while the agency was run by Mirko Cvetkovic. That's exactly what I thought it was like. We want to talk about Ces Mekon? Let me turn around and around my colleagues, I don't see anyone with watches like that or a suit. I wouldn't want us to go into personal accounts, talk about which company was involved in what public procurement procedure, who are the owners of enterprises, who are connected persons, how jobs were obtained from the City of Belgrade. Of course, then it's no problem to give one apartment, because it's earned 50. I don't think that's funny. There are other MPs who have businesses, I just didn't know how much public works were, how big he was then, how big he is now. Something must be sacrificed when you do politics, but it seems to me that some people do politics because they like it, because they like it, and on the other hand, they use that same policy to make their businesses work and make huge money in the negotiation process behind closed doors. You just liked to compare 2014 and 2015 to 2009, 2010, 2011. Don't talk about workers anymore, who please God. How much you care about them you have shown this by 2012, how much you care about the controversial 24 privatisations you have shown for four years of government. You shouldn't have opened any of them. You shouldn't have touched them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29109	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica, the name of the party is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29110	Replica, but I will speak by amendment, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29111	Then don't use it. You're speaking according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29112	I'm speaking by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29113	Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29114	If we bring only accusations, returning to some time 20, 30 years ago, saying in such a way as to propose amendments although young by age, but with great experience and with a party that has been restored and took part in the work, participation in the conduct of this country, these things seem to be washing hands, as if Serbia's citizens were somehow getting into something else's head. If something hadn't happened, that we were from 2000 to 2012, and unfortunately in Vojvodina today, as if it weren't Bojan Pajtic, as if it weren't DS. No, it's someone else. Forget about the people in Serbia, forget about all the bad things that were done. They're some other people now who are worried. These are now some people who wanted to sell Telecom at the lowest price possible, and now they care and say – why are they selling Telecom? There is no continuity in politics, there is no continuity in your policy, and if there is nothing left of something after the next parliamentary elections, I think it is the parliamentary group of amendment promoters. Don't wait too long and don't wish us much, we might go out to meet you, and then only with the help of the permanent parliamentary legislation, only then do you see the parliament inside, because the citizens of Serbia remember, because those who are out of work know who they're out of work for, because the citizens of Serbia know that you drove out and the IMF just to use public finances in the election campaign. Any such accusation is an image of an auto-projection. In order for someone to talk and to criticize and suggest better, they have to legislate. Mr. Bozovic can only be legitimateised as a world record player, because under his authority, under his leadership of Belgrade City, Belgrade has reached a 22 per cent deficit, a world-wide negative record. Can you and such people now be concerned about Belgrade's future, Serbia's future? They can only worry about the future of their interests and nothing else. Here's what Mr. Bozovic says. Mr Bozovic supported, voted and worked on the privatisation of the company "Alexa Shantic" from Alexa Shantic. Now I'm going to explain to you how he did it. The company is estimated to have been damaged by several hundred million dinars. In particular, only on the basis of the 2008 framework loan contract provided by the 2008 mortgage of 3.5m euros, which have never been granted to society, were used by a related legal person with the former buyer "Valko", d.o.o. Grandma Topola. Those funds, together with interest, were made possible by the amendment promoter and its policy and its party, in the total amount of 444,654.758,000 dinars, were charged by the Deposit Insurance Agency Belgrade from the amount obtained in the sale process of assets A.D. "Alexa Shantic". In the structure of total liabilities, the largest share of liabilities is based on credit and licking arrangements. Furthermore, "Bački Sivac" from Sivac, also on the basis of the contract and on the basis of a policy supported by Mr Bozovic, who is so concerned about the future of the country, youth, employees, over the completion of the privatisation process, is in charge of interest loans of 13.6m euros. Dear friends, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, those who are so concerned about the future now, have allowed privatisations directed by Milet Jerkovic, Balša Bozovic and similar to him, so that these companies get loans, that these loans do not end up in accounts of companies that are guaranteed to return, but ended up in private pockets. These same companies, Mr Bozovic, when he owed them, as well as Belgrade City by 22% of the deficit, were returned to the state. They said we took what we needed, we took what we needed. They also hijacked tractors in "Agrobac" from Bac, and sold tractors, selling moving assets. They didn't need tractors, they weren't used to working. They're only used to what can be taken, what can be kidnapped. Where are those companies now? Where are the employees of these companies? Home, with a lot of property. Thank you. You know, I'm from Vranjska Banja, I don't speak so well, but I work honestly and responsibly. I work honestly and responsibly and every lapus of my crime is better than anything Bojan Pajtic does right now. He may speak better than I do, but he's doing more unfairly than me and all these people here. Did you say that one of us did something unfair and what privatisation you're talking about? There's no privatisation. There is no privatisation, this is just a solution to the burning problem. You're talking about some firms. Who was in power until 2012? Why didn't you process it? Why didn't you finish all that? Why in your reformed judiciary, for which no one has said anything good, why have you not done these actions to the end? Either those pieces didn't exist or you were incompetent. Choose what's out of those two. Choose what's out of those two options. Why didn't you do it? I know that you are now regretting and that it would prefer us, which you called bots a few days ago, because for you are the bots and the demeaning of anyone who supports SNS. Take care of you, take care of you who are approaching a statistical error. I was present when in the Eighth Assembly, a group of MPs acted just like that. Criticism makes naked criticism, without any idea. Where is he now? Out of Parliament, but I won't take care of you. I will take care of this process that has to be completed. What are the effects of your privatisations? None. You're talking about the participation of industrial production in GDP. Do you know, colleague Bozovic, how much of the production industry's participation in GDP in Romania? Forty-one percent. Do you know how many other countries are in the environment? Thirty-six percent in the Czech Republic. In Serbia, 18%. Forty-five thousand half-year-olds were left out of work. How's the privatisation income? Where did that privatisation income go? Where's all your investment and your job crash? A large investment is the sale of Miskovic's assets to you. You've gotten so close to him, you even own his property and you say it's yours. He's so close to you today. This is a procedure that needs to be completed. This is the idea of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for which it will be supported today by both MPs and SNS and, I believe, other partners in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but this is an idea for which we have received support from the international community because these 17 companies, which may not have been sold so far, and you are criticising us for not being sold, but they are placed on their feet, but they can live, but they can work, but they can pay both electricity and water and wages and taxes and contributions and gas and all that other companies are doing. And we didn't sing them a lullaby, we made them work. And we didn't sing a lullaby to them in words: here, we'll bring you money, here, we'll give you money from other citizens of Serbia, here, we'll take away from a healthy part of the business, we'll give you money, and you vote for us. Now, it was the lullaby of the Democratic Party, it was the lullaby of Balša Bozovic, and it lasted for years and it lasted for decades, and while many good trains passed and as many opportunities passed, these people woke up, started to work, to modernise, to do something from their companies. No, you sang to them a lullaby, and now you say, "Why are they not better? Why haven't they sold?" Who, what? What have you taken, as you have taken from "Alexe Shantić", "Little Bosnia", in "Agrobac"? By tomorrow I could talk about such companies and these companies and your abuses in the privatisation process. To criticise something, both you and I, you have to face the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and say – well, we did it better. What makes me have the cheeks and honour to go out and say, "This is good, because we haven't spent this year in vain." Because 17 companies are up on their feet. Because 1,770 employees in Jumko have their own market and their production, their bills and their salaries and by the way, they paid just 50 million dinars for electricity. Is it small? What do you want to brag about? The tractors you drove away? The credits you put in charge of, kidnapped, and then returned to the state? How many firms in restructuring? You weren't the other night when I spoke. You didn't have time to stay and listen to all this. You had better things to do, to polish those tractors, or to count that money you took from the company in privatisation. You have restructured 234 companies, Mr Bozovic. Do you know that? Of those 234, 104 were sold. Great! But unfortunately, for 89, the privatisation was broken. You sold 15, and out of these 89, just like "Alexa Shantic" and all of those you sold to that top investor Milet Jerkovic, it was returned 75. Seventy-five times Mile Jerkovic, 75 times all of what you have in charge of and kidnapped both Alexi Shantić and Young Fighter and in "Little Bosnia" and "The Border" and "Agrobački". And now you stand up and say, "You are some new people, so now you have an idea, so now you are concerned, so how will this happen?" Well, you and your Bojan Pajtic, who criticised your Labour Act, are now saying – this Labour Act is not reformal. Make a deal once is not reform. Do you communicate, talk, do you have any party organs, or do you maybe communicate through social networks? I see it's more modern now, that through social networks, you bring out your pamphlets and political attitudes, as the right becomes the left, so the left. But well, it's more of a thing for you. But to talk about something, to talk about the privatisation process, you have to go to the citizens of Serbia and say, "I'm sorry, to admit every mistake, to admit every credit you took, kidnapped and orphaned." And most importantly, Mr. Bozovic, these citizens are not excused enough. Citizens need you to get back everything you took, all the way to the last dinar you took. That's the only time we can sit down, be partners and work out how we can and can do better. You didn't qualify, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29115	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since we have multiple reports, I just have to ask on the basis of the reports. So we have Mr. Pavicevic. You're in the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) We have Miss Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure as well. We also have a MP, Balša Bozovic. You have the right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honorable Guest and Guest, I assume from the Ministry, was injured, Mr. Becic, just before Article 107 of our First Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which regulates the issue of dignity of the National Assembly. Your obligation, Mr. Becic, was to warn Mr. Babic that the mistakes he makes, not using the Serbian language properly, does not attribute to all the citizens of the area from which he comes, because Mr. Babic here has just admitted that he has made a mistake...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29117	Mr. Pavicevic, I ask you not to use your application by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29118	The dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29119	Thank you, I understand, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. In voting day...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29120	I'm not done. I have another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29121	I won't let you use this as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29122	It's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29123	Well, it's not necessary if you use it as a replica application in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29124	But I don't replicate Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29125	You're replicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29126	No, I'm telling you, Mr. Vienna.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29127	You can tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29128	Your obligation was that when Mr. Babic said that in his neighborhood... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29129	I understand it was my responsibility, thank you. I don't think I can correct the speeches of the MPs and the statements of the MPs. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Insult of dignity. ) This will be decided by the MPs of the day for the vote. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29130	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I believe you've violated Article 104. A Rules of Procedure that defines how long the replica lasts. You're Mr. Babic, under the pretext that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29131	Ms. Jerkov, a memo, Mr. Babic just refused to exercise his right to the replica, appeared on the agenda, following an amendment tabled jointly by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Goran Ćirić, who spoke on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29132	You really think Mr. Babic was talking about that amendment? Now that's my question to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29133	Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29134	Can I explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29135	It will be decided by the MPs, whether Mr Babic spoke about the amendment. Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a two-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29136	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I am proud of everything I have participated in in the City of Belgrade and in all the results that the Democratic Party has made in Belgrade, and in the three bridges, and hospitals, and kindergartens, and boulevards, and schools, and in the parks, and in the case of 13th pensions for the most vulnerable pensioners, while today these pensions have been reduced, while today the salaries of educational workers, police officers and health workers have been reduced. I am proud of the results for the simple reason that Belgrade was not in charge during the Democratic Party as it is today. That's something strange, since you said he was overindebted, and you're in charge of him yet, that is, your mayor. I don't think that in the last year, a year or a half or two days, how many Belgrade gentlemen run from the Serbian Progressive Party, enough results are that burgers are sold in the Republic Square, the fact that the largest tree in Belgrade's history has been installed for the New Year, that a traffic light has opened, a walking pass, a bike vault, that the Vojvodina Steps are unable to complete, and these are our projects that we have left for you in the amanet. Not to mention the shameful restoration of the Obrenovac and not to repeat anything about "Belgrade on Water", I told you that when 400 listened to the lecture we gave you in the Assembly. When it comes to theft, it was stolen in the 1990s, it was also stolen during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and during Boris Tadic. It's unremembered, but also what's during you, Mr. Granny, I'm not saying that you're stealing, I'm just saying that our thieves are here today. They're in your ranks today, Mr. Granny. That's why I invite you to all those who stole in the last...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29137	Time!
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29138	I'm done. One more sentence. ... Ten or twenty years, bring justice to justice. You'd be surprised how many of them are among your ranks today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29139	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, a replica. The mention of your last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29140	I admit we've ruined your Duke Step project. I admit it, but you know how? We've corrupted your commissions. Now, by corrupting your commissions that you planned to re, by principle and by the reputation of the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, end up in your pockets. Duke Stepe is being renovated at lower prices, less for your commission. Do you want to talk about these extraordinary successes, where 22%, not 22%, but 22% of Belgrade City budget deficits? In the history of no city, no municipality, no local community is so in debt. And for what? For the renovation of King Alexander's Boulevard, which has been overpaid six million. Where's your city manager? In the ranks of the SNS or in prison? And he's not in jail? Excuse me. Is there a court dispute? How does that get from a driver to a city manager? How does this come from city transport, in four years, and, look, in those four years, that reconstruction of boulevards, comes to the latest BMW X5? It's Belic, it's Belic. That's the man you supported, Mr. Bozovic. That's the recipe. Would you like us to open up the rest of the marifetteluks you've been making in Belgrade City? You're not gonna be okay. But I don't want to build a courtroom out of this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29141	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29142	It's for judicial authorities that the SNS has full confidence in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29143	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Jozic. Here you go, Mr. Jozic. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29144	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say a few words about the amendment, although I see that the applicant of the amendment has come out of the hall quickly, but still, because of the citizens and for the MPs in this House today. I'm not going to support the amendment, of course not my colleagues, and I'm not going to support it first because I don't trust it. I don't trust either one of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29145	You have to do it again, you've turned off your tone. You need to reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29146	Thank you. I say, I will not support this amendment, for the only reason I have no confidence in it or in these next ones, and for the reason that the applicant is someone who played a serious role in the former regime at a time when all the serious privatisations were made, or the time that should have been arranged and done something valid in Serbia on this matter. It is that of the 2,381 companies that were privatised after 2002, three-quarters of the employees were jobless, then 65% of the social enterprises were shut down. Please, our prominent and world experts said Serbia suffered less damage from the bombing than from such privatisation that followed after 2002. We get to the point where, wishing for some parliamentary emergency elections, which is what Grandma did anyway, so the amendment applicant says that after the parliamentary elections, we will fire 25,000 workers. I think he looks in the mirror and remembers the words of Mr Boris Tadic, who in 2008 in the pre-election campaign talked about some 500,000 new jobs for Serbian citizens, and we came to lose several hundred thousand jobs in four years. I suppose the applicant of the amendment, remembering that time, alluded a little to this present state and trying to transfer it as a boomerang, to the burden of the SNS. I will sometimes support a possible amendment of the applicant when he comes to Blace, where I come from, when he explains, to stand before several thousand workers who have lost their jobs especially at the time of privatisation and at the time of the regime he belonged to, when he stands before them and when he gives an example of a positive privatisation in Blac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29147	Thank you, Mr. Jozic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29148	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen, here is this privatisation process, as I said two days ago, it began in Eastern European countries on time and the process was successfully completed. The only privatisation process is not completed in time in our country to Serbia. For what? Because of the former governments, the former regimes drained precisely from these companies funds for their personal wealth. I don't want to speak out loud, which is why, by this amendment, the applicants of the amendments and the former authorities oppose the privatisation process, but let me say that by privatising, let me say, the robber, all the factories and business entities from Stefan Nemanje to 1990 have been destroyed, which have been built for centuries. It is not true that 400,000 workers went to the street, but 700,000 from 1995 to 2012. What is most painful, the former regime destroyed banks by privatizing, as the backbone of the pillars of economic development and the economic development of our country. The four banks that stood best in our country were destroyed, and the realizationist was just a member of the People's Party, who was an MP until yesterday, so he fled, Bozidar Djelic. Why doesn't one of the DS gentlemen fence from Bozidar Djelic? Here, I'm calling them today. Cover yourselves, gentlemen, from him. The 11m euros he himself admitted to being in three or four years. Why don't you fence yourself from it? Also, by privatizing you handed over, not to say destroyed, sugar. So your party director did it. Why are you fenced from him today? Here, I invite you, let someone at least get up, let them say - we're building on it, etc. Next, I'm sorry, but you've ruined school. Your minister's reform of the so-called education has been introduced by a radical reform of education. By privatizing the university, you destroyed universities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29149	Please, Mr. Atlagic, return to the amendment only. You need to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29150	Yeah, I'm talking about privatisation. Let us now, in the end, here, the amendment this goes in favor of letting economic operators remain on social property, because how do you understand when a man who is on the DS list, and sitting here today among us, the day before, let's say, there are 15 days, on NTV says that Jellyzar, believe it or not, should not have recovered, but send the workers home and shut down Jellyzara. Now, gentlemen, you've done ten years of privatization like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29151	Mr. Atlagic, I have to interrupt. Don't talk about the amendment. Thank you. The word has been issued by MP chief of the DS Parliamentary Group, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29152	Okay. Mr. Chairman, we've learned some new things. The democratic party is responsible for the destruction of business entities by Stefan Nemanja, probably beekeeping and candle-making plants and waxes. But I have a few things to add. First, the man who privatised the banks is called Mladjan Dinkic, a man in your Committee for Co-operation with the United Arab Emirates. The head of the Privatisation Commission is called Sinisha Mali, from that period. We can keep going. You say since 1995. In 1998, first privatisation minister Jorgvanka Tabakovic. Then we can move on. The people you've admitted to the government have made a privatisation. Mr. Djelic figures as a man who will be your Privatization Advisor "Telecoma" etc. It's a very awkward thing. You give up these people, and the Prime Minister doesn't. You have to make a deal with each other. That's what I keep asking you. Sugar, Mr. Kostic is absolutely in everything with the Serbian government, always in places to take pictures, to open something new, absolutely. Business club, absolutely with the Serbian government. Ask around. What are you transferring your friends to us? They're not good for you now? It seems the Serbian governments are good. That's completely unclear. The greatest absurd of all is, quote you, colleague, you've privatized the university. Just explain to us, if you can, here, now I'm asking you to plead, how is it privatized by the University of Serbia? You've got something wrong with that. There are private universities in Serbia and it is known to your party. That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29153	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29155	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Dr Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Pagvicevic and MP Zoran Zivkovic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Now, at this point, you've reached out to Mr. Zivkovic, I've looked at it, but okay, no problem. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29156	With an amendment to this article, our wish was not to allow the privatisation of so-called strategic enterprises to be extended, 17 of them if I follow well, while remaining the protection of enterprises on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija or having part of property in Kosovo and Metohija. It's two different situations. It is one issue of companies in Kosovo and Metohija, above all, because neither the Serbian government nor the current ministry, nor the Privatisation Agency can influence the privatisation of these enterprises, nor is it logical for anyone to report to the Serbian Privatisation Agency and we need to be aware of that reality no matter how good it is for us as a state. However, this request or the government's idea to extend the protection of strategic enterprises to another six months is meaningless on several sides. First, the self-evaluation of what strategic enterprises are in Serbia? On what basis is that measured? Based on the number of workers, there are larger companies that have gone bankrupt or gone. Based on the impact on Serbia's economic system, they negatively affect Serbia's economic system. Therefore, it is all these 500 companies that have not been privatised after ten years since the start of privatisation or a little more than 12, of course affecting negatively, not paying taxes, not paying contributions, not paying their commitments to commercial creditors, not paying their salaries, rarely paying their contributions. It's all trouble. In the principle debate, I'll speak for another five minutes, talking about this being a very good subject of privatisation for demagogy, for planting, for hitting the taps, but it won't change the fate of the Serbian economy. Each of us can summon someone with more or less basics and it's not going to get us anywhere. I took part in the creation of a privatisation model, I think it's the best model of privatisation. Of course, the negative selection does not have a good model of privatisation, but there is only the least bad one and this is the least bad model of privatisation and that is the assessment of all experts from all relevant world and domestic institutions, and the proof that no government has changed that model, but only that model is less or more makeup in these 12, 13 years as it applies. On the other hand, he initially produced good results. It's true that it was the privatisation and the best companies at the time, that's exactly right. But it is also true that the process should have been completed within four years under the first law and thus it should have prevented anything that could negatively emerge from the process stretching. Why is he out there? Why did it go this far? There's absolutely no excuse at all. I said three stages, 2001 and 2003, look at the statistics, look at anything about it, that's when the law is applied properly. From 2004 to 2009, I said, dirty on various sides. It is hardly that anyone who participated in this process, whether in the Agency, or in the Ministry, or in the Government, or in local self-government, can hardly swear such an oath to someone dear that it was all pure. On the contrary, and not exactly that there were 24 privatisations that were criminal, there were 224. Among these 24 that are mentioned, there are a lot of mistakes, there are at least three that are not privatization at all, but not to go into these details now, it's a common familiar thing. And there's a third phase, the third phase is in the last six years, and that's a hibernation and a matchdown. So there was practically no privatisation process, no explanation, and for that, the authorities who have held power in this country in the last six years are responsible. There are more participants in that government. The dramatic change in 2012 from the position of government has changed nothing in the area. Here, for three years nothing has changed except the law that was painted a year ago, obviously not good enough to end it. Here's the amendment we've given denied for reasons that can hardly be accepted as justifiable. Where it says that it is not accepted because the solution proposed in the bill is justified for the reason of a successful solution to the fate of privatisation entities for which there are conditions for sale and there are 25,000 workers who work there and that their departure to bankruptcy would lead to major disturbances, in order to bring about social problems and problems in economic life. And who guarantees that in these six months' time these companies will be settled in an adequate manner? Whether someone can tie their fate to a political or not, so to speak, give us another six months and we'll solve the problem of these 17 companies. Secondly, how do you know there are 25,000 workers here, because what companies are strategic, the government will decide when the law is passed. This means that something is wrong or you have already identified which companies are, and then my question is, how can there be a company that has a problem, say the PKK? It could've been privatized right now, and it can be now. The question is also what is the strategic importance of the Kruševac factory and, with all due respect, traditions, roles, places of people working today, what is the policy of strategic importance for the state of Serbia, and not to mention that there is also a FAP that has been talked about five, six times that it has been resolved and that there are several other companies that are allegedly solved. What are you looking for for for another six months? So, in six months until the end of this year, it's quite enough time to end fate, I hope, a favourable fate for all 500 companies, especially those 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29157	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a minister, Mr Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29158	If I understood you correctly, your proposal would be that by the New Year's, we would actually be able to launch this process, not for a year. We still think that we need more for individual businesses, let's really do it during that period, because it's in our best interest that we could do it all during the summer to finish already. I'm just going to give an example of why we've singled out some companies and why they're important to us. You just mentioned FAP. We published the process with FAP a month ago, but the preparation of documentation for the conclusion of the contract, for the completion of the privatisation process, and the privatisation process takes place from the time of collection, so that the calls are announced, so the deadlines provided for by law when the SIS appeared have passed these control mechanisms within the institutions that do so. After that, you have one period of bargaining. As long as the contract is not concluded, that company is open. So we need it literally, and it can happen that, I don't know, June 5th or June 15th or any day in any short time, we end this process, but the 31st time you drop a flag, it can act legally. So some companies may be involved in days, and you also mentioned the PKK. Yes, the PKK could not have been completed by the process of making changes within the catastrophe and you know how long it takes and how much problems we have with it, not only in the PKK but also in the situations of the construction industry. The World Bank and the EU also participate in this process and we are trying in every way possible to speed up this process and make it as much better as possible because it is a condition for our recovery and in general state-of-the-art. So there are very practical reasons for that, and thank you for your ideas and general observation about the privatisation of how long and how she was guided, what was going on. Clearly, the situation is complicated and difficult. It is clear that we are determined in this process. It is important for us to protect a number of enterprises. It was thought whether we should do the same by December 31st, but our proposal was, if you remember, and that was in the media, we went to the IMF and asked it to be even two years. In the end, however, an agreement was made to make it for a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29159	Thank you. Do you really think you have the right to a replica, Mr. Zivkovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29160	Thanks for the answer, but he's not complete. You set an example of "FAP" and "SISU", which has been discussed for more than a year. If the six-month deadline is limited, then it will be the interest of both the states of Serbia and the Agency, as well as the partners, or the Finnish companies, to complete the negotiations as soon as possible, because if the deadline expires then they will not be able to privatise it the same way they would like to. So, if it's an honest intention of both sides, six months is enough for much bigger things, to make peace with some country that you're at war with, let alone privatize an enterprise. I didn't get an answer why some companies were put on a list of strategic ones that you can't objectively explain, even the government had to make criteria for what's strategic in Serbia, so that through that matrix we see which companies fit and which don't match. My question too, what happens in six months? We come next year, you or some other minister, some other government, or all the other composition of Parliament, or the same, all of us in our seats where we are sitting now, what are we going to talk about then? Then who's to blame? Why did we lose another six months? What about the trustee's safety, the commercials, the state? Who's funding these companies' business? Who's funding their expenses? Who's funding their salaries? Budget, not the Serbian government. Never does the government fund anything, but the budget, and in my time, I didn't finance it, as Prime Minister, but the budget, the citizens of Serbia. I think the end of the privatisation process is very important and, of course, to the knowledge that bankruptcy is not the end of life, but that bankruptcy is a chance for a new start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29161	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Grandmother, base, just, uh, reporting? According to the amendment, then we must wait for Mr. Pavicevic to speak, because he is the applicant of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, Honored Minister Sertic and distinguished guests from the ministry. I believe that this is what the debate in our National Assembly should look like, as the amendment to Article 2 is under discussion, which was submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I. The amendment, the argument very clearly, follows one logic, follows one philosophy, one system of ideas, the minister responds by defending, very precisely and clearly, I think his position, clashes two different approaches and now in one dialogue, as is the order in the National Assembly and citizens listen to what is the argument for one approach, which is an argument for another approach and the price that is a better approach than those two. I enjoy this kind of debate in this National Assembly and here I have to now and a congratulations to Mr Sertic, which is how he participates in our debate. I have to remind you here about this amendment that two days ago, we also announced our objections in the principle debate. We then told Mr Sertic and the guests from the ministry that MP Zoran Zivkovic had submitted seven amendments to these two amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Privatisation and Amendments and amendments to the Law on Standardisation, that I also submitted seven amendments and today I am pleased to inform the MPs here, above all Mr Bečić, SNS, that of these seven amendments, two of our amendments have been submitted, and I have to remind the MPs here that for the MPs, it is always a great pleasure, because we believe that this has affected the improvement of one text that will be contentfully applied to all citizens in our Republic. Not only that, but also to remind the People's MPs, the SNS above all, that we NS MPs have established ourselves for the time being for six percent of the amendments accepted. Mr. Sertic, you may not know that we are automatically making analogy with support in the electoral body. For example, if we imagine that elections will be parliamentary, extraordinary by the end of the year or early next, we are now at 6%, but Mr Sertic, let me tell you, our goal is 20%, both the accepted amendments here and the support in parliamentary elections, whenever they are organised, gentlemen. We have two more things to mention here in a very positive way. One thing is, I mean, I already said it's good that the debate is going on like this. The second thing, the arguments that have been passed on to us here, despite the fact that we are not in agreement with the content of the reasoning, are still clear and precise. I have to say, gentlemen, and it is worth congratulations here, because we are dealing with some ministers here, respected gentlemen, such as Minister Udovic, or Minister Selakovic, who, Mr Sertic, is only answering us for our very good reasons, so it is not accepted, for example because they consider their proposal to be more comprehensive and meaningful and appropriate, without explanation. You've explained it here, we greatly appreciate it, and we say, we don't agree with that approach, but we appreciate this approach in terms of explanation. What is the problem with not accepting this amendment, dear gentlemen and Mr Sertic? This amendment concerns one member who, among other things, concerns some deadlines, which are given once, and now, as I understand it, these deadlines are moving. Mr. Zivkovic talked about it here. You have told us in an explanation for not accepting the amendment – "the amendment is not accepted because the solution is proposed in the bill", which you sent here justifiably for the reason of a successful solution to the fate of privatisation entities for which there are conditions for sale. So, you justifiably, with extensions, you attach to a kind of optimism that you cultivate about the possibility of solving these cases of non-resolved privatization entities. But then, Mr. Sertić, I notice this kind of non-consistency, because two days ago, here in the debate I asked you, did a large number of changes in one law, the first change of old law, and the adoption of a new law, so today changing a new law, is that a positive or a negative signal for one, if you were to invest or buy, one of these subjects of privatisation? You said so, I'm going to tell you now, you said, "There is no consulting house today and no company from the world or Europe that has come without supporting the Serbian Government's measures on the way to recovery and work." So you're saying that these frequent changes don't interfere, they don't prevent, they're not an obstacle, but I have a stenogram here, Mr. Sertic, because we have to check, what, who, when he says, what's the occasion? Then immediately after you say the second sentence, and in that sentence you say, in six recent years, so from 2009 to today, that's your word, no privatisation has been done. That means, not even in this previous year. Then, I'm hitting that statement with that previous statement that you claim all the conditions for privatisation are successful here, there's not a single consulting house that could say anything against it. So we have a kind of non-consistency, and then I, Mr. Sertice, what do I notice? Then I introduce this kind of non-consistency and your optimism, which shines out of reason and crashes it. Especially with one experience I've had. Here, gentlemen mentioned certain examples of private talks with businessmen from Serbia. Well, I've almost been to Ivanjski end, I've been, before, here's Mr. Babic mentioned, for example, Bac, I've been to Bac before. Do you know how bitter privates, businessmen from these parts are, angry because there are no appropriate conditions for their small business. In Ivanjica, I was sitting there in one of Zaric's landlords, so there was no positive words, nothing affirmative in terms of the possibility of them doing their private business. In Bac, mentioned by Mr Babic, electricity cannot be made in one settlement "Economy 3", there is no telling who will pay, there is no telling who, the pillar of which is, and then their electricity is cut off. Mr. Sertic, this optimism doesn't match what the facts are, and that's why we believe Mr. Sitisic, that extending his deadlines won't bring anything, but right here to face it and to end this thing. That was our idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29163	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29164	Two things I'd like to answer. One is about the law we commented on two days ago. I am a supporter that any initiative that goes towards solving the problem is changed through legal rules, sublegal acts or any other institutional framework, if it will bring us efficiency and improvement in the next period. So I have no problem with the fact that laws often change, if they're aimed at improving the economic environment. And that, on the other hand, is the price of this very house that deals with consulting services, it's the price of foreign investors, and it's important for a very large part of our domestic businessmen who do. Here I would tie this second topic you said, which is – support for businesses, support for the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the most part. It is very important that we end this process and, as we understand it, we fully agree that not only the budget funds that have been allocated to these companies so far, to focus them on development programmes, but that the general business environment in Serbia is at least decided that no one can ever come and tell us again – you here have a large number of enterprises that are dysfunctional, which do not work well. It has nothing to do with whether they're state-owned or not. Here, Mr. Karic has just given information, and many citizens know that Telenor is owned by a Norwegian state, or their funds. But the essential thing is that we need to ensure the functionality and sustainability of all businesses. I'd like to give you one piece of information. In fact, from 526 companies, in just 17, we're looking for a deadline to one year. This speaks in favour of this process being completed. In that part, we also had different opinions from your colleagues, who believe that there should be a greater number of businesses to be protected. I'm not getting into it. There are excuses for each other. We thought this was a balanced number. For each company, when the government makes a decision, it will be a clear description of each company as to why it is on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29165	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Do you want a replica or speak by amendment? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I speak by amendment. ) According to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29166	Today is May 27th, and I think this is a good day for parliamentaryism, if we take this day and this kind of debate as an example and continue to communicate, with respect for the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also with each other's business. Today is the day when, who would have thought, but today I will agree with one part of the presentation and the amendment promoter, in one part. I agree, and I would like that relationship of accepted amendments to be both the relationship and the result that we will make in the elections. But I will also remind my distinguished colleague that, for this bill, my dear colleague, Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic and I have proposed four amendments and all four have been accepted. That's 100%. I know it's unrealistic, but let's make it two-thirds of it so Mrs. Tomic and I, but also the Serbian Progressive Party, will be very pleased. I appreciate when MPs visit Serbia, I appreciate talking to both citizens and businessmen. Something like that is necessary. But in those conversations we participated at one point and the amendment promoter and I, so we didn't hear so many disastrous things. Of course, there's a lot of dissatisfaction. Of course there's plenty of room and space for better and more, but there's a shift. The shift is shown in increasing production, which we could see in companies and in good companies in Topoli, is similar in Arangelovac, it is similar in Kragujevac. Of course every meeting and one good task we get from both businessmen and citizens is what and how it can be better. We're not involved in everything being perfect, everything being perfect. I wish I did. But after years and decades of devasting and an dishonest relationship with both the economy and the citizens and the state, I think it takes maybe even enough to get to the good one, to get to the ideal and the one where most will be satisfied. I would also like to thank the other amendment promoter, Mr. Zivkovic, without wanting to challenge him on the line, because he spoke sincerely about some of the times behind us, and about the 2001 Privatisation Act, which was carried out for four years, and all the troubles. God forbid any country, or ours ever again, or any other, that what happened to us in that period would happen and that would definitely slow down and shut down some of the processes. Unfortunately, our country's image was on a very small scale. These are all things that are understandable and acceptable. It is also true that an opportunity has been missed in that period after all that, when one company is allowed to be guaranteed for the next one, the next one, the next one, the next one, and the next one, and then the first privatisation, the same domino effect, has fallen on all others. It was a period when there was no global economic crisis, when our country had something to sell to. I can't agree with those qualifications that are unnecessary, especially about the matches and things like that. I can't agree with these things, because I think they're part of some street folklore, and where no one in this year's government of Alexander Vukic, but since 2012, has been able to point a finger at any minister or government official or Serbian Progressive Party, that he's done something wrong, that he's taken, that he took home, that he's in charge, as we've seen there have been such examples. I think this amendment is unacceptable because only the legal solution implies it, because we are not talking about the year and the law is not talking about the year nailed, so today, May 27, when we adopt this law, we will see each other next time on May 27, 2016. No, I don't. It's clear here about a period of up to a year, which means six months. What we could talk about, and unfortunately we didn't take advantage of that opportunity, when such amendments could be proposed, which is to see these passing times. What I can now, as a kind of compromise and agreement, call on Mr Sertic, and there will be many laws and laws with which he will come to the National Assembly, to inform us that this process is going to take place in that year. What is very important and I would agree with the amendment's proposal, does not give the government money, it is money from public finances, from the funds of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the government is the one who is as a guide, pointing out where this money is most necessary. The most important thing for our public finances, the most important thing for the rest of the economy is that these 17 companies live alone. Now that they're cleared of those debts they're not responsible for, which were created at some point earlier, whether someone was doing it by law or not, let someone else do it, let them investigate who should investigate. If someone is guilty, let them go to jail, let them be tried, but at this point in this way, today, on May 27th, those 17 companies are working and functioning without looking at Belgrade without looking at the government of the Republic of Serbia, without looking at whether or not they know someone and whether or not they can figure out how to get that money. These companies now pay salaries, pay taxes and contributions, pay water, pay electricity, pay gas, pay all those obligations arising from business as well as all other companies. They're not rewarded for anything. It's good for public finances, it's good for the rest of the economy, because it's bad to work in a system and in a society where someone is privileged and someone isn't. Someone's got benefits, someone's got no benefits. These 17 companies function and work on their own and give them a chance to do it in a period of up to a year, and that's six months and three months and three days or seven months, but the most important thing is to do it in a transparent way, to do it in a fair way, to do it, which may be the most important, in a sustainable way. I therefore think that this amendment is an integral part of the law, and on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I will call on Mr Sertic to periodically give us reports of what has been done in these 17 companies and where the job is done. It's an incentive for those other people who didn't finish the job. It's also a sign for employees in these companies that they have to function a little faster and wake up. I think it's a good way in a parliamentary dialogue. Anyway, I think this amendment is well-intentioned, but for the SNS it's unacceptable, because I think the bill promoter has already predicted that possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29167	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, you have the right to a replica. You're not in a negative context to mention, but here you go, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29168	Without wanting to change the tone of today's debate, just a few explanations. I told you about this third phase, the last six years of hibernation and matchmaking, so now who recognizes himself. There are better, more precise and more professional terms than matchmaking, but I think the matchmaking is the clearest thing to recognize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29169	Please don't use such a dictionary in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29170	I don't pass it on to anyone. You don't have to defend anyone. That's the question, when it starts with a story about privatizing something, it stops, and it comes out of it. It's a formula to extend something up to a year, a formula that is not accurate, and such formulations must not be in the law. It has to be precise, whether it's something two months, three months, not -- up or out. Not to talk about it, since I'm not a lawyer, but these two decades in politics have taught me something besides that. Seventeen companies on that list that do business on their own today, that's absolutely not true, unfortunately. I wish that were the case. What, Resavica mines themselves? No, I don't. FAM Cruiser? Completely on its own in the last three months. But we can't watch what's been going on in the last six months. One company's business is seen in the whole part, and that means what happened ten years ago or watched at least a few years in advance. So I would, of course, like it to be true, and that the assessment is good and that in a year we're going to get a solution for these 17 firms, but I think it's impossible and that optimism that exists, I don't think he's honest enough either. And it's clear to you that there are a lot of firms that can't be solved and which, unfortunately, are the only futures you're running out of. But to repeat, bankruptcy is not the end of life. The bankruptcy is, let me compare a comparison again, like a divorce. So it can be difficult and tragic, but it doesn't mean it's the end of life and it can always go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29171	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29172	What is important is for this law, which is that we have received the support of both the World Bank and the IMF for this bill, which, under special monitoring, monitors how funds from public finances are spent. Do you think we'd get that support to keep the sacks carrying money to Kruševac, in a series of other cities, in Triestenik, in Priboj, in Vranje? They wouldn't allow it, and they have the opportunity to monitor how funds are spent at any time. That's why I'm also saying because of this support that we got from the IMF and the World Bank, these are the companies that we're currently in, and I'd like to see, just like my colleague Pavicevic and I were in Topoli and Arangelovac, to visit these 17 companies, to go to Jumko, to see those 1,770 people who have been building and building this company for years, who have come from a well, out of one hopelessness on the highway, to work and to work and to pay their salaries. Is that pay enough? They're not, they're not enough anywhere, but they're better than they were yesterday. A chance should be given to those people who, by the way, not only paid their salaries, but also paid 50 to 60 million dinars of old liabilities based on spent electricity. It was a condition for these 17 companies, that they could live and function without looking at Belgrade's way and the government's path and the way of public finances, I agree, and by the way, they pay for all their obligations arising from the business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29173	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29174	You don't have to trust me, Mr. Sertic, anyone in this room, trust the IMF and trust the World Bank, who are here for monitoring.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29175	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I think we should cover these replicas. Mr. Zivkovic, it's not like that. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You gave Mr. Babić a replica, and I didn't mention it.]] Let's close this debate, or I'll have to take a break. The word is made by MP Milinko Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29176	Dear Chairman, ministers with associates, Serbian citizens, fellow MPs, I had no intention of reporting, but I was challenged by the amendment, which should certainly not be accepted. All the haughtiness and passion of the former regimes and cynicism and insolence of certain MPs today's opposition are seen in plastic terms in the case of RTB Bor. In the past period, very rudely they did RTB Bora cause enormous damage. The Bor mining gunner base was charged with 10,000 tonnes of copper that did not return, equivalent to 65m euros, including interest. They made a processing contract from 2004 to 2009, in which, apart from what was contracted for minor exploitation, they had to return 3,049 tonnes of copper or over 18 million dollars more. They did and tried two privatisations, which fortunately failed. They privatised 15 RTB companies, in which RTB invested $371m, for which it only received $12m, and the rest were interest, remained the main debt and remained 17,000 people on the street. Over 100m euros in RTB for social peace and security, i.e. pay, and no money in investment, have been invested in RTB since 2000. It was only watched how RTB was destroyed and sold. During that period, they made commitments that were for electricity for $116m, a public debt, where workers could not retire or left with reduced pensions for over $50m, obligations to NIS to over $30m. During the period of rule of the former $290m regime, RTB was to be forgiven from the Paris and London Club, for which the state of Serbia received, and leaders, or the former regime, did not do so according to RTB and RTB, so in its papers it remained in debt for $290m, including interest. What's going on today? He's investing in RTB Bor today. It's being invested in mining today. Today, it is invested in metallurgy and a 251m-euro project has just been completed for the new melting plant and the new sulphuric acid plant. Today, salaries are paid at RTB for 5,000 workers. Today these people receive 70,000 net wages a month. Today, the obligations towards 2500 suppliers and customers are met. Today, the electricity of 400 million dinars per month, oil 300 million dinars per month, pays 550 million dinars per month in gross amount. Last year, profits were made in RTB, which is the basic business thing for each company in the current business. These are differences in two concepts of two regimes, how something needs to be destroyed and how something needs to be recovered. Unlike that regime, which has been expected to appear since 2000, when late Prime Minister Djindjic appeared in Bora and who has been calling for citizens and workers, who have asked for how to recover, said RTB should sell, there is no perspective, there is no ore, and today in Bora there are 15 years of work, certified geological reserves of 1,350,000 tonnes of ore. The policy that the opposition realises today and retains is the message that the late prime minister said, that RTB Bor has no perspective, that workers should be fired. When asked what these workers were going to do, the late prime minister said – they'll make spinners, they'll make socks for chairs, and they'll make socks for tables...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29177	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29178	... and plant peanuts on RTB's spears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29179	The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29180	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Sertić, we have heard here a persuasion and agreement in relation to your proposals, which you are defending today in the Assembly in one, I would say, a very appropriate, civilized and meaningful way. That's what we confirmed last time and I see that there's a lot of understanding here by people who attend the same neo-oliberal capitalist school that all of this needs for a good time, some are less merciful, some more. Basically, after a year go to Bor, go somewhere else and tell them what's waiting for them. Tell those people what's waiting for them. Nothing else, just be honest. Say, "We believe that it must be sold, for my God is the market." Tell those tens of thousands of workers that it doesn't matter what happens to them, because they will receive severances or maybe someone will buy them, and since Minister Sertic is here, I'll use it to ask you, I think my colleague gave me an extraordinary creamworth, and you can answer that here today, since the citizens of Bora are asking me that – is it true that the Serbian government has brought in an alleged regulation by which imports of coal, coal dust, which will be burned in the new solvent, there is no longer an obligation to check radioactivity? You can check that for me by the end of the session, because if that's true, let's hear why it happened and who the importers are. I asked about Tamnava too, and no one's gonna answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29181	Mr. Stefanovic, the same goes for Mr. Zivkovic. Please, Mr. Zivkovic has been warned, and I warn you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29182	Allow me five minutes to stick to the subject as well as my colleague on the other side. So, after five minutes, you warned him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29183	Mr. Stefanovic, please, I'm trying not to make a mistake. It's not a day for questions. You have a day for questions from the government or the state authorities, and now we're talking about amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29184	Mr. Chairman, I think in this case you're making a mistake, because you've allowed your colleague to talk about whatever he wants, about Zoran Djindjic, about the sale of RTB Bor. I only ask the Minister to answer this question, because I think it is important for the citizens of Bor, and it is important for this company and it is important for both the concept and the philosophy of this law. So we have an additional period, a period in which these things and debts cannot be charged for 17 companies. I asked what the criteria were. A colleague on the other hand responded partly, and I'm grateful, but I'm also asking -- why didn't you put some other companies there, why didn't that deadline be extended, how do you think you're cutting something off without the government coming up with a whole concept of full-time social protection and employment after, overtraining or whatever? I don't see him here. I know it's not Minister Sertic's portfolio, but in this situation he defends the position of the Serbian government and I think that this amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29185	Mr Stefanovic, we are on amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29186	I talk about it all the time. You have an amendment to be able to shorten to six months or stay for a year. It's equally harmful because there's nothing. Why are you stopping me from talking about the amendment? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29187	Mr. Stefanovic, since I now notice that you do not know which amendment we are on, I will now read the text of the amendment. Article 6 following Article 2 adds a new position 3 which reads – the provisions of Article 2 of this Article do not apply to privatisation entities designated by the Government Act as entities of strategic importance privatisation, as well as privatisation entities whose seat is or stretches the activity of the conduct of the Kosovo AP and Metohija territory or whose property is located in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. What is in this amendment text from your presentation? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I will explain. ) You are talking about the law in principle, not this amendment, Mr Stefanovic, thank you. The word is an international letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29188	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, wants the amendment's proposal to exempt these 17 business entities, which the government has estimated to have the possibility to end business and solve problems, and the deadline is up to one year. Why? Because many things have started within...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29189	Mrs. Tomic, the same reason as Mr. Stefanovic. Don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29190	I'm talking about the amendment. They want to exclude 17 companies and remain only those on the territory of an autonomous province. That's the amendment. Why am I talking about 17 companies? The question arises, so the promoter asks the question – on what economic criteria have these 17 companies been selected? So the basic indicators, which simply give for the right, when you do an analysis, are economic indicators, and that means that in the previous two years you have the final accounts of these companies. These economic indicators are economics, rentability, productivity. On the side of what there are debts in the past years and on the side of that, when this amendment is adopted at the moment, as the promoter wishes, all companies would go under ice and these 25 000 employees would go to companies when we say bankruptcy, but there would no longer be a chance that these 17 companies that have strategic roles, primarily in the way of functioning on the market, by the product qualification and the quality of the products they give, according to market participation, according to cooperation in certain sectors, when we talk about production, would simply not be able to function anymore. For example, the FAM Kruševac we're talking about. The oil factory is a company that now has over 400 products and has a 75% export range. Those other 25% of products are simply placed on the domestic market for EPS needs. So, all public enterprises within the EPS. When we talk about Zelizara Smederevo, it also uses products that are within FAM. Then, RTB Bor uses their products, as well as “Kruik” Valjevo. So, when we talk, let's say, about FAM, which was privatised in 2011, and it was returned again because it was within the Nibens Group, so the problems that Nibens Group wanted to transfer to FAM level, restructured in 2011, and restructured, proved that when you have responsible management and when you get into a situation so that you can invest with the help of the state, that certain halls, certain machines, are modernized, these companies can function independently on the market. What is interesting about FAM is that in the last year it has started to settle its old obligations, which has managed to pay fivem euros in the budget, which has paid 3.5m euros in old debts. Therefore, it is as one good example that such companies can really, within a certain period of one year, find strategic partners, but no longer be financed from the budget. It would really be a great sin, and I think it would be a huge economic disaster if 17 strategic firms didn't support it at the moment when they already entered into different types of bargaining, such as. Jumko, which has 1700 employees and has a 2.5m-euro contract. ‘Resavica’ is related to the restructuring of the EPS. So some companies can't let banks just shut them down by letting them all go into debt confidence. So when we talk about economic criteria, they are the only ones who are relevant for selecting all 17 companies that the government will practically put on that list and extend this deadline. So protection in terms of up to a year, which I think most of them and for a smaller deadline will practically end up talking about privatisation and just get off the state budget and finance, which is actually the goal. It's a good thing there's a deep analysis that this government has faced, which in general has gone to a very responsible level of analysis of each of these companies, which I don't think any government has ever faced and had the courage to go into this analysis, because it's very difficult to be realistic, especially when it comes to management, means the directors who run these companies and trade unions. Because they, each of them, look through their prism business of the company. Each of the unions wants to continue to manage trade unions and to simply transfer money to the account through certain relations with the directors and then share certain money, or certain products through trade union borrowings and thus provide for themselves practically, as well as trade union leaders, salaries that are held by individual directors of such companies. And it all went to the budget and the citizens of Serbia. It is a good thing, however, that the Ministry of Economy has indeed engaged in talking to everyone, and that, above all, with certain 17 companies, it makes strategic decisions about how it will function in the future. Because the products with which they appear on this market are not only important for the Republic of Serbia, but also for the whole region, but also for the EU market. If we say that one FAM exports 75% of its products, and owns ISO standards, certificates for such products, then we can say that in the future this percentage of export orientation will only increase. Therefore, we, and as MPs, are really involved in creating a market economy in the future that will only go to a positive account of the Serbian economy by supporting such a legislative proposal. So we talk all the time about there's a lot of foreign investors and there's just domestic production choking. That's not true. If we really support these 17 strategic companies and find, in due course, strategic partners, with this very export orientation, we do our domestic production in a certain way, which is on our knees, and we all have to admit, in a certain way, we're slowly raising to remain in function that was many years ago. Of course, the number of employees has fallen drastically from 10, 15 years ago and of course simply many manufacturing aortas and many machines at this point are not at the highest level in terms of technological organisation, but the point is to keep what is healthy and what can work and therefore find some strategic partners that you will be able to work with in the future, and thus keep these young engineers working in these strategic enterprises, especially when we talk about companies that are outside Belgrade, which are located both in the south and in the east of Serbia, because they themselves are doing their positive business, regardless of what we have debts from the past, help us maintain the level of economic activity, which is very important for Serbia, which directly affects GDP, with which we have both the IMF and the World Bank and all international institutions. We also heard Mr. Milink, the story of RTB Bor, which, of course, the governments of earlier years had problems, somehow for the last two years all these problems have been solved. When we talk about "Politika" a.d., we should know that if the company is in restructuring, simply such a company is not only one newspaper house, it is tied to many legal persons who operate under "Politicals" such as printing. If you were to shut down and simply release debt confidence relations and put one policy under the ice, it would virtually endanger the business of printing in which a lot of employees are working, thereby destroying the whole business that has really worked hard in restructuring for the last five years and trying to streamline its list and remain at the level of the circulation it has today. Why should I end up...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29191	Please, Mrs. Tomic, you have to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29192	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29193	Don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29194	So, the 17 companies that the proponent wants to exempt from its amendment have great strategic importance for Serbia. In these 17 companies there is also "Politika" a.d. Mr. Becic. What I'm trying to say is that I should really...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29195	Mrs. Tomic, I'll read the amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29196	Read me the amendment. I know what the amendment is talking about. The amendment speaks of excluding 17 companies that the government is proposing to amend and supplement, and only those that are on KIM territory remain. So the amendment promoter has a concept that these 17 companies don't need...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29197	If you think you can speak that way, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29198	... to be privatized. So to recap, we need to support this proposal. I thank Mr. Minister for not adopting such an amendment and I think it is also the interest of all Serbian citizens to adopt such a proposal to amend and supplement the law with such amendments as have not been adopted by the promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29199	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29200	Of course, the amendment should not be accepted precisely for the reason that 17 companies have been left out of the amendment, and companies whose assets, mostly activity or basic activity are located in the territory of the AP KIM. Namely, this member of the law, the Government, or the competent ministry, has shown full responsibility, but also the responsibility and courage for those companies that have strategic importance and which are both significant on the world market, which employ a large number of workers and which are significant not only in their local environments, but have wider regional importance, that the chance is given and that healthy economic business is allowed. Finally, the proposer of this member of the law, the competent ministry or government, does not say for decades that it is a year, but is up to a year. This means that some companies that are of strategic importance, some companies may also end the procedure within a month, two, three or four. What I particularly want to point out, as the amendment promoter stated in his presentation, is the mention of the car factory in Priboj, a factory that was once a backbone and a driver of economic development, not only the Priboj municipality, but the entire southwest part of Serbia. Unlike the previous government, or the government of the former regime, where most of them did not even know where Priboy was on the geographical map of Serbia, the first to come to Priboj, but not to take pictures and not to collect political points, but to draw problems under the carpet and start solving them, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, on 31 October 2013. Immediately thereafter, in November 2013, a working group was formed to look at the possibilities for existence, i.e. for the sustainable business of the car factory in Priboj, which also has great importance for the municipality of Prepolje and the municipality of Nova Varoš and the entire Zlatibor County. This is not the end, it was done in continuity, on 30 May 2014, Alexander Vucic became prime minister, on 27 April 2014, so, after not a full month, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the Finnish factory for the production of heavy cars. And that is not the end, the government's conclusion of 23 January 2015 decided that the only model of privatisation of the car factory is the strategic partnership model by forming a new company, and the company will form the Republic of Serbia and a strategic partner. And of course it's not over either, a public call for privatisation was issued on 20 February 2015. A Finnish company answered that public call. Therefore, additional time is needed to complete certain procedures. What separates this government from the government of the former regime and the government of the proposings of this amendment is precisely the responsibility and courage to face the real situation, to tell the citizens that the real state is not keeping the citizens in certainness and hopelessness, but to tell the citizens the true and real state, because that is the only way Serbia can move forward. In the end, Serbian citizens recognised Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic's policy and such a policy in Serbia in their elections, giving their SNS votes, and in many places such as Priboj, deleting others from the list of political lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29201	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojčić. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29202	Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in which I wanted to define precisely what enterprises are of strategic importance. Then I added one part that says -- that strategic importance is determined on the basis of the current strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia. What appears from the reasoning of the Bill's proposal, which we have received, is that there is no clear criterion about how these companies have been selected, and this is much like the political influence and influence of individuals from the government and the ruling coalition on the choice of enterprises that will remain protected longer. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because if we've defined a product as strategic, then it can't be said that the truck from one city is strategic, and from another city, the truck is not strategic. If it's strategic for one country, the truck is strategically all the ones the city comes from. Or why is the cable strategic and the agricultural industry's processing product is not? If you looked at it and made it a criterion, it's not clear how you got to it. If you used balance sheet, negative capital as a criterion, again these 17 don't fit, in any case these 17 can't be on the list. It's completely unclear. When this bill is taken, and the argument is read, where some are said to be given strategic importance because they employ 20,000 workers who would lose their jobs very quickly, then this means that these 20,000 will lose a very fast job. If this argument is correct, Mr. Sertice, then that means it. I was just thinking of saying this amendment -- if we have in the strategic documents of the government or the areas or cities that we want to favour, then it's okay to enter the part that relates to these strategic documents. I think it would then completely avoid the possibility for citizens to think that there is a more partiality and party influence on the selection of enterprises on this list. I'm going to give you an example now. In two large giants, which are not on this list, some 1,000 employees are currently working from the Kings, at the Magnochrom Car factory Kraljevo, the "ElectroSerbija" is being shut down due to the restructuring of the EPS, due to preparation for privatisation, about 1,600 workers in some future, will be out of work in the coming months. Now I'm asking -- if we're making savings and we're not giving more money to those who have failed, whose property can't recover, because capital is so negative that it eats itself, where do we use that money? I took it out of your site as the Department of Economy used incentives. There is a table, which stands on your site, an incentive through the years, in the particular jurisdiction of your Ministry of Export Encouragement. The fall since 2011, with 148 million Kraljevo city, has dropped incentivising exports to 28 million in the past year. I'm not saying that you haven't been a minister in all those years, and it's not your fault, but I'm afraid that trend will continue. Incentive of production, here is Mr Sertić – 353 million in 2011, 80 million in 2012, 118 million in 2013 and in 2014 22 million. So it's a 15 times less drop. Where do savings go, if we know that the realisation of investments is minimal, that it's not satisfactory by any criteria, according to the Fiscal Council's estimates? What's going to start the economy? If we give up these losers and say, "We won't, we won't, we'll cut now, how do we start the economy?" There's no solution, you haven't offered us a solution, and that's the biggest problem. Why haven't we made clear criteria and why are we discriminating citizens from one city or another? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29203	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29204	Here are a few reasons for your proposal for an amendment, which is in that direction, and it's going in the direction that we wanted to protect certain companies right in the privatisation process. You've given another set, that especially those conditions are described, and that's not a bad idea. The amendment was not rejected because we consider it a bad idea, but, first of all, we adopted as a state in previous years a huge number of strategies and a huge number of different documents, which would now require that all of these documents go through, that certain analysts be extracted that would be incorporated into the government's decision. There's no time for that. This does not mean that they are political reasons or that political reasons will affect the decision-making process. As the first thing, for every company, you'll see that if you go through all this that we're talking about today and the Assembly adopts this law and the government comes to the adoption of the regulation, every company will be described, meaning not only a list of enterprises, but a description of why the company stands there. I'll list a few criteria, although they've already been described and explained, and we've already informed the media about it. These are proposals from the Ministry of Economy, and the government will make a final decision. First of all, it was important to us from all of these major companies, which were once large carriers in the past of economic development, where companies have opportunities to privatise them. Because if you have a firm that can't be privatized for a particular reason, which has no packaged documentation, has restitution problems, has problems with debt measures such that by no relaxation of debt you can't get into the process and in these models that the law has already predicted, such companies are not put in place. So, companies that have the option are selected, and they have the economic power to work, that there is a market, that there is interest, that there is serious interest in investors. I've already told you very openly, that since 1,800 and some letters of interest, the largest number of letters does not have a serious weight with investors. We've had a large number of conversations in the previous period. Even those who pleaded that they wanted to talk about certain companies came and gave us conditions. They gave us very often conditions that we as a state couldn't accept. We can and by law, and you know that when last year was a debate about the Privatisation Act, that the state said that in order to complete the privatisation process, it would relax all its obligations, but we have no legal right, nor any other way to affect the bank, private companies that have claims in previous business processes that have been going on in the company, that we force them to relax. There are other ways to do that. There is an advanced reorganisation plan and there is a law on contractual financial restructuring. So there are other instruments where these companies can come in and relax their obligations. We talked a lot, I won't repeat, I've been clear enough in my explanation, what we've faced, what problems, what legacy of the past. Not to say that when you have large groups of companies, and interlinked companies, they don't have a clear inside these groups of their legal affairs, that they know what they're on, what they belong to, who they belong to, who they belong to. So these are processes that no one has solved. Is that good? Normally, it's not good, but it's a state we haven't had time to solve because of all the processes we're going into, because sometimes, because of the legal procedures we have, it would take years. We don't have time for this and the cleanest way is to solve it through different kinds of other processes. On the other hand, I disagree with you in your conclusion that nothing seems to be done on the other side for companies that function and operate. It is precisely a large number of changes in the laws we have passed that contribute to the improved business environment, from the Labour Act, from the very law that strategic reforms lead to, and so on. structural reforms, from the Law on Construction, which has enabled us to significantly speed up the permits, from the law that is in preparation for land conversion, which will be very soon ahead of you, from the Investment Act, from the amendments to the Law on Contracting Financial Restructuring, which are all just clearing the business environment and making it easier for businesses. We continue to reduce the burden on the economy and continue with the guillotine regulations of the so-called administration to allow companies to have the minimum number of obligations in their business. So, there are a lot of things we can influence. The information you've given on the downsizing of the company is absolutely accurate and he's talking about exactly what we're talking about. There is no more room for the payment of enterprises in restructuring and all expenditure from Serbia's budget must go towards development programmes. Is that going to hit certain companies? Yeah, he'll guess. Are we trying to avoid it, to make the least of the damage? We are trying, and that is the goal of all these changes and all the laws, but a sustainable economy must be an example of our behavior and our way of doing things in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29205	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I apologize, Mrs Malusic, for the quality of the debate, I will give Mr Jovanovic the first priority, so you will get the word. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29206	I thank you for your answer, Mr. Sertice. But if you're saying that the potential, or the possibility of being able to provide investors or a solution to these companies, that, for that reason, delay their resolution or not delay these others, then we shouldn't have called it a strategic criterion, but we could have said the investment criteria. I just think this is very confusing. On the other hand, I think that, as a serious state, one should uncontestably determine what our strategy is. Are we saying that our strategic industry is processing, is it metal, is it auto-industry, is it the chemical industry? It's just, I think we as a serious state have to have and to know. And regardless of the number of strategies, the basic strategy, at least when it comes to economics, has to answer that question. For that reason, I have submitted this amendment in this way. It's indisputable for mining wealth, for what some of these companies are dealing with and on this list, it's undeniable for that. Indeed, it can also be said to be strategic, but the other one is very controversial and can very much suspect that political influence is involved in those who are not on the list. The data I read also refers to private companies that have withdrawn funds from the Development Fund. So these are the funds for regional development, which is under your authority. That's why I read those data. It's not just these companies, it's all business entities operating in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29207	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29208	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with guests from the ministry, honourable Members of Parliament, I heard a sentence that burned my ears, which is that the government chooses political belongings. That's not true. First of all, the government is the most competent, with the Ministry of Business and Finance, to consider the problem of companies that go into privatisation, and that's where all the political structures work, both yours and ours. So the government is government. I agree with the government's view that these 17 companies have an extension in a year, because all these companies are working and contributing and paying for electricity. They don't pay like they used to, because they don't have the number of workers they used to, but Jumko has 1,770 employees. They pay electricity and pay taxes. Cables too. Not full capacity, but they pay taxes and they have salary workers, as far as that goes. As far as the social programme is concerned, we are responsible completely, and opposition and position, towards our citizens. Now, that's why, since we got 50% in the last election, we're even more responsible than you, so we've separated for that, the government has separated both the Ministry of Billion and 800,000 dinars for the social programme. It's a good thing they're going to extend the deadline for another year, because in a year, a part of the people are going to retire and next year they're going to retire, and the rest of them are going to be covered by this social programme. So, they're gonna get severance for a job that they can do in private, one at a time. Two, as for companies in Kosovo and Metohija, Kosovo and Metohija is the heart of Serbia, and since there are companies under great press and usurpation, that privatisations have been done in one dirty and bad way, without good documentation, we have just extended the deadline so that it does not happen. So let's see what's done and how it's done and help these companies too, that if we can revitalise them, and if not, at least help people who do privatisation to do it in a good way, according to the standardisation and accounting rules of the EU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29209	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29210	Thank you, Your Honor. As Mr. Minister said and responded to fellow Jovanovic for which this amendment should not be adopted, and I join. But what particularly bothered me is the mention of the Development Fund, the Car Factorys and decision-making politics. As for the Development Fund and the Car Factory, you know, the honorary colleague, how much that same factory owes, and what are the reasons why she's not on that list. To remind you that the government is thinking well and thinking well, today a public call has just been made to sell the assets of the company, i.e. the Magnochrom industry in the Kingdom, worth 10,600,000 euros, where the government is expecting, given that there are serious and interested customers, to sell our public company in the first round. As for the Car Factory, it's normal not to be in those 17 companies, since you know that the factory alone owes 13m euros to public and state-owned enterprises, you know that it owes 425 million to the Development Fund because it didn't justify 297 wagons. I'm sure we're also thinking about revitalizing the car factory, whether through parts of the company, like Livnica, who's always been working, means all the time it's going to be, or it's going to be some other segments of the factory, but I'm not surprised that your command hasn't been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29211	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representatives of the Office of Youth from Go Starar, who are currently following today's part of the session from the Great Hall Gallery. Mr. Jovanovic, you don't have the right to a replica, you don't mention it, you can only do the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29212	We're used to not being able to get a replica, but here, I'll speak for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29213	Mr. Jovanovic, just so you don't have respect by the chairman, it's not your name and name mentioned to make it a possibility for a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29214	Okay, you have criteria depending on who answers. The criterion that someone pays electricity or doesn't pay, is no criterion and I wonder if everyone saw the balances of these companies on the list and those not on the list. It's the only criterion we can respect. If we want to look at the interests of the state, we look at it or see if it's a strategic company or not. Mr Sertic has openly admitted that we have not established what is truly strategic and is not so defined by the government act and it is clear that this is not the case. When it comes to elections on a subject like this, to mention the elections before, then it is quite clear that it is pure politics. For this very reason, and I have submitted the amendment, to avoid that policy, and since my colleagues do not understand and accept that it should be so and mention the payment of electricity and severance, I can only ask Mr Sertic to, behold, tell those people who remain jobless - how can three, four or five thousand euros in Serbia start a secure business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29215	Mr. Sertich, you can't go through this amendment again. Mr. Bradiche, do you want to follow this amendment or your amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honored guests, MPs, distinguished Starlighters, I report to this amendment, and I think it should be supported by the congregation's majority, although I can see that the congregation's majority is repeating the story, without realizing this for a roll call, from less than a year ago when we passed this law. I'd say one sentence: that we don't change the law, we, gentlemen, support the deadlines you set for yourselves and say you'll finish privatizing 520 companies. You failed, as the Honorable Minister said, because the Privatisation Agency that you've been running for three years didn't do the job, because the companies that are in the privatisation, where you've appointed the executives, haven't done the job, and we have to, to protect the workers, to extend this, to give it a chance. I support this proposal because I couldn't on the day that we talked in principle to answer, I didn't have time when we talked about Nis, because I think the Machine Industry should be, on this basis, a company of strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia. Because what was done at the Hawk pump factory could be done to translate the debt into the ownership part of the state and, I can tell you, it was done in "Jastrepac" in 2010 or 2011. That company lives, struggles, fights on the market, but lives. The only two companies left, it's the Nis Machine Industry and the Electronic Industry in Nis. They lose here, they get off the list. If it's not in all of that, now that I'm not wasting my time, that you're instructions that it's important to meet someone to be on that list of 17 companies, I don't know who else can meet that quota, team before the Machine Industry Nis, i.e. "Vagonka", and "Locomotiva" won a 5.5m-euro job in the tender. A team before "Vagonka", and "Locomotiva" can remount railway cars, ownership of the Railway, which has 15,000, and we have an obligation every year, if I read correctly, 20% must be remounted. So there's work for these people. You're a congregation majority, you form a government, you form local self-government, you swear to leave people at work. I'm talking about 92,000 families. It's a thousand and some family in Nis. There are so many workers still in MIN and in the electronics industry. Let's make an effort, if we give others a chance, so why don't you give Nisha a chance? What's the problem? The Nislims are full of that budget, too. What's the problem? Because someone at the agency said it was impossible. I don't think so. Well, they haven't done the job in a year. Because someone from the Ministry, with all due respect to the minister, but he's not a minister alone at the Ministry, he can't do all that, there's at least 50 of them. It's like a ship captain. If that simple sailor doesn't take the ship, he can give all the gas he wants, he's standing in place. Someone had to prepare it. Let's give people a chance to survive. Let's take a chance. That's what the minister said, I believe it happened, that you explained it, so normally, and I went somewhere to explain to someone who's far below me, he has to accept. What's the union president gonna say? We don't accept? Well, he won't say. The director of the company to say - I won't? Well, he won't say. But I'm counting on you to find a chance. I don't know, it's not my job to tell you what you're supposed to do, but let's talk about not knowing what the names are or the law says it's just going to be decided by the government that's on that list that's going to get that chance, and here we're all talking about some 17 firms, and there's still no law being passed, so let's add two more firms, so let's make it 19. Because it's a city that used to be second, and unfortunately for me, it's the third in the Republic now, and if we keep going like this, it's going to be the fifteenth. It's no problem that Nis will be the fifteenth, and where will be the places where you come from, which are much smaller than Nis, and by potential and by the number of inhabitants and by the economic resources, where will they be? If we don't make an effort to preserve what we can preserve and if we get in a year, year and a half, whether this is for the sake of the election or not, it's not the subject, it's the subject of these people, we get another 100,000 unemployed or 92 thousand unemployed. I wonder, then, who's going to fill some next government's budget? It can't be budgeted, people, based on the international community's credit to be charged. It's got to work. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29217	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of SNS Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29218	I'm sorry, I'm using Parliament time. Since the minister can't answer, and I think everyone is interested and the promoter is particularly interested in the Kraljevo car factory, I'd just like to get some statistics out, just so you have insight into why the amendment isn't accepted. On 31.12.2013, the loss of the company's capital is 6.5m euros. On 19.05.2015, a blockade was recorded in a company of 8,144,000.677,31 dinar, which is a total duration of 1,096 days in the blockade. There are 640 disputes that are being fought against entities that are being run by exes, which is from current work, and we have 730 employees. The property of the company established mortgages by the Vojvodjanska Banka tax administration, liabilities to state creditors by 31.12.2013, means, without 2014, it is 13m euros. So if a company is 1096 days in a blockade, if you have certain disputes, if it is unable to function, to make revenue more than 1096 days, then it is really impossible to put it into function of a strategic company that you will protect another period of time to make it work, because it failed for that time period to recover. Therefore, it is better to simply go into this bankruptcy as a cure, that out of bankruptcy a certain, meaning, after UPPR, certain parts of the company find strategic partners and try to simply put on healthy legs at least parts of those companies. When we talk about what is the most interesting IMT, the IMR, it should be said that debts and obligations that, for example, would now have reached around 63m euros for IMR and for IMT 90m euros. Therefore, when we talk about the economic parameters that are seen in general, it means, in addition to the economic and the number of employees and the strategic position of the company itself. We have to be realistic, we can't do it because, well, in certain local self-governments, we'd like everyone to stay. Then we're not talking about privatisation. Then just, come on, let's talk budget funding from beginning to end. It would be realistic then if everyone stayed in Serbia's budget and then we still paid 750m euros from the budget and then did nothing. The hardest is when you need to make decisions that these companies remain and still hope to survive, which they do not. But here, an unequivocal solution was made because the ministry did an analysis, followed in 2013 and 2014, and it saw exactly who could survive on the market, who couldn't. So, who doesn't have a blockade, who's income, who can function on a sustainable basis within a year to earn as much as he earns to spend, while some old government debts try to solve it in a certain way, they stay in the 17 companies. In the end, in the past year, the government has worked intensively to find strategic partners, which is why this amendment has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29219	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29220	Thank you. I have just cited only an example relating to certain companies and the simple way in which certain MPs appear tells me that I was right and that for a reason I have asked to define strategic importance because it is clearly done on the political line. When a company's balance sheet is listed and it's said to be very negative, that it's a negative capital and that it can't be solved, then why isn't it talking about another one on a list that doesn't deal with strategic activity, which comes from Jagodina and has over 70m euros in negative capital? Or does the other coming from Vranj have 57m euros in negative capital? So it's those double arches. It's these double criteria that make citizens lose confidence in what we're doing here. For this reason, I have proposed to define the strategic importance in which we define the criteria by which companies that will be longer protected are determined. I don't know why the ruling party MPs are so excited about it. That's a clear criterion. Even the minister said that and there's no need for this kind of reaction. It just seems to me that it proves how these lists were made. Lists we haven't gotten yet. An act we haven't seen yet, and it just puts a big spot on this whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29221	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. On the 2nd amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29222	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I would not be able to share with Mr. Pavicevic the commendation of the response to the amendments. I think there's been a mistake here, and I'm asking you one more time to read it carefully. So, our amendment, the amended amendment with the correction, filed on 25 May at 17 hours and 10 minutes and the answer we received. I don't think the answer we got from the government matches the amendment that was filed. Otherwise, to meet my colleagues, we have no objection to the government's decision to determine the company by means of its act, but we have asked that Article 3 be added after Article 2, respectively, to point 3 to which the Government would be obliged to publish an act on the official website immediately after its adoption. I hope that this act, when it is brought in, will contain parameters based on which companies are privileged, if I may say so. I hope the government act shows their potential. Te, I think this is a mistake again. Please explain to us, if it is a mistake, whether you accept this amendment, because if you do not accept it, there is clearly a suspicion that the government is hiding something, that it wants to bring an act that will not be available to the citizens of Serbia. There will be no parameters available on the basis of which these companies will be singled out from this group of other companies, but I hope you understand what the SDS-ZZ-ZS parliamentary group is looking for with this amendment. So he's looking for transparency, or clarity on the basis of which 17 companies will get that privilege, so to say, they're out of the reach of tax claims for the next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29223	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29224	Dear MPs, you're right about the reasoning. Obviously, the explanation is a very lame one, and it's not good enough. I will now explain to you since my colleagues have prepared a note already that it is not adequately written, since we are really trying to ensure that this debate is in line with the best intentions of all of us, that the law is good and that it is meaningful. So your proposal was to publish an act on the official Serbian government page. The law on the publication of laws exists and we are bonds of that law. It already defines that any act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia must be published in the "Official Messenger" and will be done. So, the day the government adopts right now, I don't know what exactly the deadline foreseen by law is going to be published. So, a complete act, a regulation or a conclusion that has been made regarding this law that we are discussing today will be published and will be available to everyone. I have already pointed out that every company will be detailed as to why, in which ways and which criteria are guided by a given company for such a thing. On the other hand, we, on our website, will also publish the same act with the company list and will be done at the Privatisation Agency. So, the transparency that you have asked here to be only strengthened by the government's act, i.e. by publishing on the Serbian government's website, we would simply enter into the question of all other acts that we have to publish, and the Law on publication of acts very clearly specifies what is being published on the Serbian Government's website, and what is going on in "The Official Messenger". So the basic principle that you stand for and we fully agree with is that the act must be fully public in every word and that will be done. So, through the official messenger, through an announcement on the Privatisation Agency's website, on the Ministry of Economy's website, it will only not be published as an act in that part and in that description on the official Serbian government page, as you have suggested. I think we're fully in agreement on the basic direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29225	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. According to the amendment, the MP Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know that the government has an obligation to publish its acts, and I know that completely. However, you have seen for yourself how much controversy this particular member has caused. I think 250 MPs focused on this particular member and these 17 companies, that's my impression. Anyone here who's an MP will mention an enterprise from their neighborhood, from their place, that won't be among those lucky 17. I don't belong to you. I come from Majdanpek, RTB Bor will probably fall under it. I was going to ask you because the prime minister said that "Goldar" is of strategic importance, that the "Golden" might be there, but I suppose it would be too much for a place like Majdanpek to have both companies in this group. But given that this much interest of all MPs and MPs is right by this member, please accept, nothing would be too much in this law, unless it is made clear that all parameters, all company names, will be placed on the official website of the Government. I ask you once again that as Minister most responsible right now on the subject of this law, accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29227	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29228	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable ministers, the honored guests, our amendment to Article 4, is "deceased", for the simple reason that we have not met in the last nine months the law that you are changing today, the law that you have passed in 2014. In those nine months, everything that the government of the Republic of Serbia has said in its explanation has not been fulfilled. Now you're changing and supplementing the law, as you said the Agency would overcome the obstacles that stood in its way. Does that mean that only because of this member of the existing law, the Agency did one very bad job or the law was bad, so we waited nine months to change it. Anyway, all the ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia took over that mantra from the prime minister -- now, in a year. For four years now, and when it comes to the city of Belgrade, the mayor announces a better transport in a year. Here's what you're announcing here that you're going to solve the whole thing from today, so in a year's time. And every one of the ministers who comes to this Assembly says, "Here is a year from now, my portfolio will produce these results." And it is so convenient that responsibility is delayed, delayed and delayed, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are waiting and waiting and waiting and getting worse and worse. What is important is that if you adopt this amendment, I think you will admit that the Agency has not done its job well, that the whole law is actually bad and you were free to propose a new one and I think it is time for each individual of the Ministers of the Republic of Serbia with each change and addition six months, nine months or a year later to begin an explanation of the supplement with an apology to the citizens of Serbia that we were wrong a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29229	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29230	Thank you, Mr. Becic. What interests the Serbian Progressive Party, and I believe most of Serbia's citizens, when the Democratic Party will apologize to the citizens for the fact that none of the enterprises in the restructuring has derived from the status of restructuring and solved its problem. Just to remind you, we're a procedure, when I tell you, if the state of Serbia has started the restructuring process if I'm not mistaken for five companies, and we're done with over 170. I am now asking Mr Balša Bozovic and the experts from the Democratic Party how much this company has been pulled out of the crisis, with how many companies have been removed that are in restructuring during the Democratic Party's rule. As far as I know, neither. The Democratic Party is the last party in the world to complain, not only Minister Sertic, but any SNS minister because of the situation in which the Serbian economy is located. I was the chairman of the Supervisory Board at Galennica. In Galennica, I was able to see my eyes, a textbook example of how to destroy a pharmaceutical company that was perhaps the best in the Balkans, and certainly among the best in Europe. Galenika was also introduced in the restructuring process and is also on the list of companies that will continue to be in the restructuring process. We have to get back to the beginning of the problem, but you DS are always running from that beginning. It is not for the problem of the Serbian economy that Zeljko Sertic is responsible. Alexander Vukitch is not responsible. The problem of the Serbian economy has started with robbery privatisations since 2000, poor privatisations. In some situations where you were supposed to break up the privatisation contracts, you didn't do it, and in some situations you broke up privatisation contracts, and for that it wasn't an objective need, and now we've come into a situation that, here, Mr Sertic as Minister of Business, must be solving problems that haven't been solved since 2000. Now, the easiest thing to do is to stand up as an MP for the former regime and ask Mr Sertic, and when will you apologize, because you're extending some deadlines and because you haven't done something? And when are you going to apologize for bringing Serbia into this situation at all? Tell me one country in transition, in which you have so many enterprises in restructuring, which have been in the restructuring process for so many years. You supported the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, did not support, were in it. The DS was the headquarters of that government. Tell me, during Mirko Cvetkovic, how many companies were extracted from the restructuring process? What company did you put on healthy feet? I hear the same question from day to day – what about the workers who will eventually be in one of these companies, who cannot survive on the market, what will we do with them. Now this is suddenly the problem of Željko Sertic and now it is the problem of Aleksandar Vukic. Yes, it is. Mr. Bradic, you'd better take a look at what's going on in your MP group, the MPs are slowly leaving you. So now it's suddenly the problem of this government, but this government has a way of solving this problem. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic was in Ruma a few days ago, we opened a new factory called Calcedonia, and two new factories are opening up. So the state is doing everything it can to stimulate the opening of new companies and we are doing it on every part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So these people who lose their jobs will do anything to get them a new job with investors, whether domestic or foreign. I don't think Serbia has had a more effective government on this issue, a government that works harder to attract investments than this government. Don't tell me this government is responsible for the situation in which the Serbian economy is located. Don't tell me that the situation in which the Serbian economy is located is not responsible for Mirko Cvetkovic, who was first the director of the Privatisation Agency, and after several years, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. You're not responsible for anything, it's all Alexander Vucic's fault and you keep piling up, I listen to you, that year when the SNS is in power, yesterday I heard that we're eight years in power, and then five years in power, it turns out that SNS is in power longer than DS. That's bullshit, of course, and that's nonsense. You, by constantly transferring responsibility to the government led by Aleksandar Vukic, want to take off your responsibilities, for the situation in which the Serbian economy is located. I suggest, Mr. Balsa, that brilliant solution that you now give to Zeljko Sertic, so give to your party president, Bojan Pajtic, he is still today an uncircumcised ruler in Vojvodina. Well, give him some economic recipe on how to heal the economy in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. What are you doing instead? Do you know what they're doing, Mr. Sertice, those who lecture us knowing that the time is coming for the country's elections, and the choices are as afraid as they say, the sheep of the knife? Public enterprises, the founder of the AP Vojvodina, 700 million dinars gave RTV, "Blica", to start Bojan Pajtic and DS's election campaign now. Who does that? "Vojvod's Forest", "Vojvod's Water", all other public enterprises, the founder of the AP Vojvodina. Yes, yes, Mrs. Comic, that's very funny. (Gordana Comić, from the place: Yes, you are lying. There's data in the management...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29231	Please, Mrs. Comic, don't throw it away. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I don't throw pies at me. He started it first. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29232	And now you DS have the courage to call someone and ask for someone's apology? Ma, you should apologize to the citizens of Serbia for the situation, for bringing them to the beggar stick, for systematically robbing this country and today systematically robbing Vojvodina in every way possible. Well, look where the money's going. Mr. Sertić, follow only the money flows, you are at least a man who deals in business. Just follow the money flows. In Vojvodina, money flows are crime flows. Where's the money from the Vojvodina budget going? Where's the money from the Capital Investment Fund going? Only where DS is in power and nowhere else. People have a list of local communities where DS is in power, a list of municipalities, to the soul, the list is getting smaller and smaller, but there's still some community and some local community, some island, where the DS government, and that's all they're pumping. No other municipality in Vojvodina has money except where it is in the power of the DS. Who gets the money today? Here, look at me, you who come from Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29233	Please, Mr. Martinovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29234	Mr. Becic, you know what I'm talking about. Tell me, is there a municipality in Srem that gets money from the Capital Investment Fund, except for Indjia? Can you tell me one? Not a single one, except for India. That's how you do it in every part of the Duke. You have not crossed the censorship of 19 municipalities and cities, the number of municipalities and cities where you are in power is reduced, but where you are in power you give money with hand and hat, because you think you'll keep your money in power. Well, God the Father will not protect you. You can throw yourselves at the citizens of Vojvodina, you've lost the election, and you're the last one to give us lectures. You give lectures to Mr. Vasin, Mr. Pajtic, to the people who run the AP Vojvodina, Jesic, so tell them how to heal the enterprises in Vojvodina instead of being involved in robbery and crime today. I ask you, Mr Bozovic, once again, tell me one company that the DS and the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic or any other government that supported or was involved in the DS pulled out of the restructuring process and placed on healthy legs? Can you tell me one thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29235	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Let me see it in order. Mr. Bozovic, you have the right to a replica. Mr. Bradic's in the Rules of Procedure. He's got a head start. Mrs. Comic, you're after the amendment. So in this case Mr. Blagoje Bradic is right, according to his injury to the Rules of Procedure, he answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've injured Article 106. - The speaker only has to talk about the agenda point. You were obliged to warn Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic not to talk about current and former situations, but about the topic of the agenda. The agenda is to amend the Privatisation Act because deadlines for the implementation of the law are being moved. So he was talking about former privatisations, and he didn't say the agenda theme was the inability of this government to prepare the paperwork...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29237	Mr. Bradic, you are knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the site: What documentation? Please, Mr. Martinovic, allow me. (Alexander Martinovic, from the site: Ask him what documentation? Please allow me. You are aware that you are violating the Rules of Procedure because you are trying to use your reply for replication. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: No, I am... Mr. Bradich, first of all, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Also, Mr. Markovic, is there anything you'd like to say? Sign up for a word and let me know if you think you need to talk. Mr. Bradic, I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because as you are witnesses, I warned Mr. Martinovic to speak out of the agenda. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: He ended up unlike me. Mr. Braddick, don't talk to me. It's not like you once. (Blessed Bradic, immediately: Please give me your word. I will not allow you to use your application by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bradiche, I'm going to give you a warning because you're trying from the bench right now to replicate with me. Thank you, Mr. Bradic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. In voting day, do you want the Assembly to plead? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Yes. Yes, thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29238	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished ministers and respected guests, had it not been for Mr Pajtic in Vojvodina and the province government, Serbia would have been in twice as much recession as it is today. Thank him for that and as a citizen of Serbia, I am truly proud of everything that Vojvodina has done when it comes to investment and all the reforms it has implemented. What's the theme of this replica is that Mr. Sertic isn't responsible, I was just asking who he was? Mr. Vukic is responsible because for four years, Serbian citizens have been waiting. They're waiting for this country and for them to get better personally. It is delayed from year to year that the day when Serbian citizens will live better, as promised by the Serbian prime minister. I wouldn't answer very much to Mr. Becic when it comes to Mr. Martinovic's nicknames. Never, hand to heart, was he intimate with ethics, if you look particularly at the last 20 years of political action, you'll understand why. "It's not the shipbuilding site in Serbia's ship, it's sailing," someone said. So you don't aim at the market, it's not about reinvestment, it's not about development, competitiveness, employment. Your goal is to preserve 25,000 jobs until an extraordinary parliamentary election. The day after that, no one's in their place of work anymore, that's what this is about. It is that neither Mr. Martinovic nor many who have reported today to the SNS that responsibility must be borne by the one who forms the executive power in Serbia. That's the prime minister, that's Alexander Vucic, those are the ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Do you think that with frequent changes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29239	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29240	I'm saying, with frequent government reconstructions, you're going to transfer that responsibility to someone else? No, I don't. The responsibility lies with whoever's been running this government for four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29241	Since I have a lot of reports, Mr. Martinovic, you're looking for a replica, but before you just let me, honourable MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the students of the Helsinki final semester plus 40, who are currently following a part of today's session at the Great Hall gallery. You have the word, MP Alexander Martinovic. Two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29242	Thank you, Mr. Becic. First, Mr Bozovic, pray to the dear God not to discuss the extraordinary parliamentary elections, you from the DS, the SRS would currently get more votes than you, that's one thing. The other thing, in your stream of words – it is Sertic's fault, it is Vukic's fault; I did not hear any of the companies that the DS pulled out of the restructuring process, which I asked you very clearly. I know a lot of companies you've introduced in the restructuring process. I know a lot of companies you robbed, but I haven't heard a single company you pulled out of the restructuring process. When you ask -- who's to blame, so I don't say it, that's what the citizens of Serbia say, whoever you ask is responsible for the situation in Serbia, do you know what they say? Well, the yellow ones are guilty. Who can be guilty except for those who have been the master of life and death in Serbia since 2000, for example, who, for example, in Vojvodina, 15 years ruled that same Vojvodina and you are proud of it. I don't mind, you're proud of the will, I just don't understand one thing. In addition to all these powerful successes in Vojvodina, the genius of Pajtic's economic solutions, come on, call the election in Vojvodina, beat the SNS and once solve the question of who has legitimacy in Vojvodina and who doesn't. Here, please, Mr Bozovic, most kindly please tell me one company that the DS government pulled out of the restructuring process, put on healthy legs, healed people, hired people, allowed them to work and be competitive on the domestic and European market. Here, tell me one company, please as a god.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29243	You have the right to a replica, because you're mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29244	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers and respected guests, what is very important, and Mr Martinovic, for example, did not talk about it, the DS is looking for extraordinary parliamentary elections for a simple reason, because with this economic policy of Serbia, 1% of the rich and 99% of the poor live in Serbia, Mr Martinovic. That's the result of your four-year reign. If the results of Pajtic's rule in Vojvodina are tens of tens and tens of thousands of new jobs, new companies that have been opened, new factories, new businesses, what your result is 1% of the rich and 99% of the poor. The only one who got rich, besides 1% of the rich in Serbia, is your friends from the Emirates. You gave them half a billion euros in land for "Belgrade on Water", a hotel in Kopalnik. You are already slowly beginning to introduce that you will sell agricultural land in Vojvodina. Go ahead, we want to see how the citizens of Serbia react to that. It is not yours, Mr Martinovic, that Serbia is not the property of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a basic misunderstanding for you as a folk MP, who's been here for 20 years and you haven't learned that yet. So if elections are called somewhere, they will be called in Serbia, because citizens live badly, or, for example, in Novi Sad, where the mayor sits in his chair with provenly bought votes. There will be emergency elections, and elections in Vojvodina will be when their turn. I just want to say one last thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29245	You're out of time. Thank you. Every time you use more time. I can't tolerate it every time. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. That closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29246	Here, I admit it, Mr. Bozovic, and I've been an MP for 20 years, and I'm not. I also admit that I understand nothing about economics and that you understand everything... (Balša Bozovic, from town: Five salaries. )......................................................................................................... And that I have five salaries. Here, and I admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29247	Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away. Mr. Martinovic, don't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29248	I also admit I'm a war criminal, and I admit I'm a hell of a ox in the Palace. I admit that I kissed and hugged Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic. I admit everything. But, Mr. Bozovic, can't I hear that magic word or those magic words that the company has pulled from the restructuring process and put on healthy legs? Here, tell me one thing. It's not a difficult question. I'm not asking you to tell me five, or even harder, to tell me ten. It's just that a man's head hurts. But tell me a company that DS has healed. Tell me one thing and I won't answer the word again. (Balša Bozovic, from "Fiat" Zastava. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29249	Mr. Bozovic, this isn't a game to talk like that. I'm taking a two-minute break to stop this debate. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29251	Thank you. I want to express my support for the amendment submitted by colleagues Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. It would be good for the government to accept it, because in three or six months, we'll be back in this room and we'll discuss the removal of this member we're changing today, because it's about collecting documentation. In my principle debate, I said that there are two essential answers missing in addition to this law. One is the criteria you choose the company. It is now quite clear that the criteria are private and personal. This is seen in what is said to be the corruption of those who will be declared strategic and to respond to what is the position of Kosovo and Metohija in this law and how it is done and whether it harms the process of normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina. In this article you are asking the privatisation entity to make a list and assess fair market values, total assets etc. and you say that the Agency will submit the list and the assessment referred to in Article 3 to the competent authority for the purpose of amending its decisions on the initial price, and the competent authority is obliged to notify the Agency within 15 days of the date of delivery of the list and the assessment by the Agency. The intention to complete the restructuring process by delaying deadlines is unrealistic and not a good idea. Whether or not the debts of the chosen 15, 17 will be covered, we will see that very quickly, but in three months or less, but the overall effect will not be achieved, we will not achieve it. The delay in what is inevitable for companies that have failed to privatise is a desire for different results to be achieved through the same means. It's just not possible. You continue with the same resources that led to decisions that now have the wrong consequences, we have great implications for the budget. You do not leave the system to which the problem was approached and it will not give a good result either by companies on the lists, those 526, or by the one you choose. Some people will also have how they benefit, but this is not the idea of the common good and it is not an idea and it is not the job of a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29252	Thank you. Just a notice that your MP group has less than a minute left. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29253	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, with this amendment that has filed DS, all masks fall into the water, absolutely everything. They suggested to be a Article 4. The bill is deleted. My colleague who spoke before me was quoting. I will have to again, that the privatisation entity is obliged to carry out a list and assess the fair market value of the total assets and liabilities and capital with a condition on 31 December of the last year, and all in accordance with international accounting standards. Now we come to that part of the story that the DS voted for earlier. This is a real estimate of the value of capital, not accounting. That's funny to you. The bookkeeping value is 10 and more times smaller and it's not a lie and don't let me lie, I'm always telling the truth, 10 and more times the market value, so you're at that 10 and more times the market value, the starting price was only one fifth, 20% of the book value. The bookkeeping value can also be cashed in the current account. Twenty percent, one-fifth, one hundred million dinars is 20 million dinars, and that's the initial price of your privatisation entity under your law, and this amendment requires it to remain that way. He can't take it anymore. Serbia is not so much for sale. What you've sold out, you've now created a problem with this government and you're accusing this government of not being able to solve the problems you've created. That's the difference between you and me. Had you continued to rule, Bojan Pajtic would have privatised Vojvodina, he had already done so through Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank, and Dragan Djilas would have privatised Belgrade, but on one condition, that some there "Zeka" privatised the municipality of Stari Grad and so on. It's not Serbia for sale. That's the difference between you and me. We want to finance the companies in the budget the way you did it, so we come back to that story that we increase public debt and sell property to those same tycoons who wrote the law and who you voted for in this assembly. I'm going to state only one law, except for this Privatisation Act, here's the Foreign Exchange Act. When only one year did Serbia leave a billion and eight hundred million euros in foreign exchange reserves. For four years, the DS government, from 2008 to 2012, has sold 4.5 billion euros that have left Serbia. So much for your foreign investment, so much for your results. In addition to selling out your assets and foreign reserves, here's your jump by over 50%. Today's course of the euro is almost identical to that of the August 2012 euro course with a reference interest rate that is higher than twice as high. If anyone knows what a reference interest rate is for someone from DS, I do. Just because I know, I know you've made some money through high reference interest rates, by selling government securities of value when the state shouldn't be in debt, and by interest of 25% a year, then this one comes out and tells me – don't work for foreign banks. They worked for foreign banks, for everyone. These same banks today are burdening these enterprises in restructuring. On those 24 percent interest rates. Who did this? You can't blame everything for Dinkic. He wasn't the governor all the time. Shoskic was your governor, and that happened in his time. This Serbia has yellowed, but like a jaundice. You've made us so healthy and left us with such a state, sick of jaundice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29254	Mrs. Comic, do you want to use those 54 seconds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29255	Thank you. The amendment should be accepted and the member should be deleted. It's a vain transmission of anger, they're in vain and slander, it's in vain for you, us, when, now, we, you, then. It's all for nothing. This member is the same tool as the one that caused the problem and needs to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29256	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29257	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to talk about the reasons why the amendment should be rejected and I'm going to say that I'm not angry at all, but I'm going to talk very calmly and constantly. As we have heard so far, many companies that have strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, so by launching a bankruptcy procedure at the loss would be all. Also, it must not be lost in sight or in the fact that in a certain number of enterprises, there is still a large number of employees who would lose their jobs and end up on the street, and the goal of this government and this assembly majority is not to create a new army of unemployed proletaries, but to do everything to keep their jobs, to preserve as much property as possible and to make the privatisation process as possible. The privatisation process, as I understand it, implies the existence of a certain asset mass to be privatised by a particular model, i.e. to sell to interested customers. The census and the assessment of the assets was carried out in 2013 and 2014, so if it were to start with a mandatory collection process by tax administrations and commercial creditors, the assets of privatisation entities would be quickly decommissioned, by good old custom, a wake-up call for indemnity, and then neither would we be able to privatise, nor would the workers have anywhere to continue their work, nor would the list already carried out and the assessment of the property of privatisation entities correspond to the real situation on the ground. The deadlines prescribed by this bill are adequate and can't be talked about any time purchase, because time simply doesn't exist anymore. The additional deadline aims only to prevent major damages, but also to allow as successful as possible the completion of start-up privatisations and the protection of employees from losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29258	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, respected guests from the ministry, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Article 4 refers to Article 20, which says – the privatisation entity is obliged to carry out a list and assess the fair market value of the total assets and liabilities and capital with a condition on 31 December of the last financial year, in accordance with the laws governing accounting and international accounting standards, within 30 days of the publication of the public call. In order not to waste my time reading the entire law, we asked that this 30-day deadline be raised, i.e. Go on for 45 days. I will give an explanation, although the Government has said - the amendment is not accepted, as the proposed solution in the draft law is given as regards the deadlines set in line with the reduction of all deadlines for the implementation of the privatisation procedure in defined time frames. Mr. Minister, it's not clear to me, we're extending deadlines to give the opportunity to privatize companies that didn't privatize, and for the reasons you said -- which weren't up-to-date at the Privatisation Agency, which the companies weren't up-to-date, which in time didn't deliver the documentation, which the whole procedure was slow. Now that we're going to extend time, when we're extending time, we're cutting time short to prepare all those unprepared papers. I think it's meant to leave 45 days. We're not gonna cut their deadlines if it's just on paper, and they don't meet it. I think it's much better, since we're already extending the deadline for the whole procedure, that it takes 45 days, that we give them a chance to have enough time, what our people say, are ours to prepare these papers and do whatever it takes for you to get into the privatisation and negotiation process with potential investors. So I ask you to reconsider this proposal, i.e. our proposal and to accept this 45-day deadline, because that's what we're going to do, and we're giving these people a chance to finish the job, because the gross job is not just up to you and the ministry, and those people who need to do the job, you can't directly influence all the companies as a minister, so let them do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29260	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, and Master Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29261	Thank you. We have suggested that Article 6 be deleted because you in Article 6 say that number 30 is replaced by number 15, and we propose that this replacement be deleted and remain a member that has so far been in force in the law, which says – the preparation agency publishes a public call for the sale of capital, i.e. the property of a privatization entity, a public call containing the business name of a privatisation entity, data on the structure and value of capital, a description and value of the capital of an asset, an initial price for the sale of capital, i.e. assets, a time limit for submitting an application for participation, as well as other information on the importance of the implementation of the procedure. A public call from Article 1 shall be published in at least one daily high circulation list distributed throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on the Agency's website, at the latest, 30 days later, you say, you suggest that it be 15 days before the date set for the submission of applications. Same as what I just said, I'm asking you to leave those deadlines, because these are deadlines where you can't influence the subject to do everything within that time limit. You can't physically achieve and better give them a bigger deadline, because what happens if he arrives on the 16th day? Then the law is holding him back, and I think you should extend the deadline. It's easiest to write something ideal, but you need to be aware that and this whole story today is because someone didn't do the job. And let's give them a chance to do the job. I say, what they are, what they are, who they are, who we are, we don't have any better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29262	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29263	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to answer both of your questions, because both things are related even though they're two members of the question. The first thing, most of the companies that are already running have already made some estimates and do not need extended time to determine new documentation and new preparations. On the other hand, we must respect the deadline we have proposed and ask MPs, which is October 31st. If we have defined in the law on October 31st as the deadline until the third call for companies that we will publish by May 31st and we will have over 40 companies published, a part was announced yesterday, today, tomorrow, every day, there are obligations for companies, businesses, we won't be able to comply with that deadline. And that's why we had to cut deadlines in the best way to make it possible for businesses to process privatisation. We are not affecting the transparency of the process, but we are increasing the efficiency of the participants in the process to be quick, efficient in the process. I've been leaving this member for 15 days. If he can't make an offer in 15 days, and it's about investors, he won't do it in 30 days. So, the companies we've had a conversation with who are interested in privatizing companies know what they want, know their business plans in that direction, and we're absolutely sure that 15 days is enough. The general framework, I repeat, is to be prepared to honour the deadline of 31 October 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29264	Mr. Bradic, you don't have the right to a replica, you can only do the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29265	So I absolutely disagree with you, Mr. Minister. I think we have one part here when we're talking, we're talking about the law, and we're going to be rigid, and that's how it has to be done, and then we go out of this room and real life says it's not like that. The essence of this whole story, I'm going to at least try to show how I understand it and how I think about it, is 92,000 jobs that we want to keep, and that's the imperative of the whole story. All we have is a paper, it's a law file, but we can change the law. The whole point of changing the law is, and I think we're all in agreement here, is to save 92,000 jobs. It's up to us, at the Parliament, at the Ministry, at the government, to do everything we can to know and to know that these people stay to work. I guess that's the whole point. It's not the point of passing the laws, and we passed the law, so we did it a year ago, so we're changing deadlines. Let's go where we can see something's wrong, give everyone who knows and knows how to get rid of it. What we're going to say instead of 30 days -- now you have to, you haven't learned a lesson, now you're going to do it in 15 days. He won't teach her if he doesn't teach her what to do since October? What are we gonna do in a year if that doesn't happen? It's not about changing the law, it's about solving the problem. I repeat, the essence is 92,000 jobs. Each of you has a company that's gonna go under the ice. I'm in pain by machine and electronic, someone else's in pain, they prefer it to machine and electronic. But it matters to me, because they're my neighbors. Each of you has neighbors, let's make it possible by law, if we're changing deadlines, if we're extending deadlines, let's let these people have a chance to keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29266	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29267	Ladies and gentlemen, I would totally agree with this amendment and I would be in favour if, by changing the law in the Republic of Serbia Assembly, I were to keep 92,000 jobs or better to say five million jobs. Let's change all the laws in the Serbian Parliament if these laws bring jobs. But unfortunately, it's not like that. Jobs create either real or shut down the market. It is about companies that are in the privatisation process that were to be completed at least ten years ago. Because without a quick privatisation that's actually a sale of state capital and a change of shape from one form of building and property to another, financial capital, we can't move on. Serbia's assembly does not have a mechanism, although you are right, located in a divided function where it has property, if someone who protects the interests of the state and wishes to preserve that property and the fact that this property is untraceable. It's not about companies that have positive capital. It is mainly all companies that are still in the privatisation process. And these 17 that have negative capital, their obligations are much greater than their claims. Move the deadline from 30 to 15 days, you may be right, but I think that according to changes that are inevitable and that mean speed to complete the privatisation process as soon as possible, 30, 15 days means nothing. It is about companies that will only be able to survive and preserve jobs on the market. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whether we change, accept the amendment or change the member you propose, six, will not solve the problem of jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29268	Thank you. Mr. Bradiche, on what grounds? (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. You don’t have the right to a replica, your colleague just talked about how the congregation decides, how we should pass the law. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: A colleague commented on my presentation. He didn't realize what I was talking about. He didn't understand you? I'm afraid he's got it very well. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29269	Article 7 amends Article 37 of the existing law. The second position which it says is deleted – the privatisation agency and the buyer of capital as contracting parties sign the minutes containing the specification of the assets, rights and obligations of the privatisation entity, etc. We think that eradicating this attitude is practically leading to the fact that it will be difficult to find anyone who wants to enter the privatisation process if there is no information about what the property is, what rights are, what are the obligations of the privatisation entity. It is explained that the current legal solution has been prescribed that the Privatisation Agency is signing that privatisation report, and that practically the Agency is not authorised to do so, in practice, the Agency does not know what the specification of the property of the rights and obligations is, however, saying that it is companies that are carrying out their activities, and is likely to change property. How do you think that at the moment of privatisation, when a contract is signed, it is not a time running, it is not a cloudy Danube, it is not a "Belgrade on Water", it is one moment, one date when a company balance can be done and it is seen exactly what is the property of the enterprises, what are the obligations, what are claims of law, etc.? Who's signing the contract with the buyer? How does a customer know what he bought if a provision is deleted that the Privatisation Agency is no longer obliged to sign it? I watched this solution, I read it five, six times, I can't find any reason, no political, no daily, no legal, no economic, no philosophical, no any, and I'd like to hear what's the reason to erase this attitude, and how do you think you guarantee the buyer that he knows what he bought?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29270	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29271	According to the amendment, I signed up for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29272	It's all right, here you go, according to your amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29273	Yes, the proposal made by the government is deleted, not the amendment. So it's an amendment. So we're asking him to remain a member who says, Article 37. — a contract for the sale of capital is an access contract and may contain provisions on contracting parties, the subject of sale, the contract price, the payment period, the amount and time of the purchaser's investment, the obligation of the business of the privatisation entity, the restriction of the availability of assets and capital of the privatisation entity through alienation and deposits, the prohibition of the reduction of the number of employees who are in a working relationship with indefinitely, the obligation to pay regular earnings to employees, the means of ensuring the orderly execution of contractual obligations and other provisions. You propose to delete these sentences – the privatisation agency and the buyer of capital as contracting parties sign the minutes, which contains the specification of the property, rights and obligations of the privatisation entity, i.e. which make up contractual obligations, as a rule, lasts two years, etc. and so on. We suggest that what you are proposing is not accepted, that it remains as it was adopted last year, because we believe that this solution that you are proposing is unacceptable, because it is precisely these provisions guarantee a higher level of legal certainty and easier to resolve possible disputes. It is this provision that allows you to know exactly what was purchased in the privatisation process. That's our position, and we think you'll make a mistake if you don't accept our amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29274	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29275	Your proposals to delete Article 37 are in the direction of clarity, to delete Article 7 of the Law in order to remain in force, Article 37. It was essentially in practice that between the privatisation entity and the Privatisation Agency, which in the extreme distance manages the process and implements the whole privatisation process, there were disagreements in which things like misjudged things were happening to us, in which the directors of companies that should be privatised for different reasons, if it was not an interest for the company to enter the privatisation process, to build up the estimates to a high level. We place this responsibility for the assessment and for the sale, which is legally defined, where it should be, therefore, on the person responsible for the subject's privatisation, and by these estimates that we have asked in the previous members to be accredited, we give the opportunity to assess the quality, efficiency, within what it represents, and that is an integral part of the whole story, but the essence is that in the very assessment, therefore, the document that gives you a house that is authorized to do so, all items of property, than the search, the state of the store, the equipment, the rights and everything is detailed, and on this basis gives some value that makes it all a summary assessment. So the whole point of this was our idea. We do not violate the principle of the public, because it is estimated that it must write everything, but we are putting an accent on the responsibility of individuals, i.e. the director of companies that have been very often, using the situation, playing with estimates, to avoid the privatisation process itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29276	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29277	If you transfer responsibility to the Director of the Privatisation Entity, what does that have to do with me as a buyer? I'm not signing a contract with the director of the privatisation company, I'm signing a contract with the Agency. The Agency should ensure that the property rights and obligations of the economic operator are within the scope of the specification. What good is it that you've raised the director's responsibility? Even if it did, who guarantees me that this responsibility was really raised? So this brings the buyer into a situation so he doesn't know what he bought. I believe that any well-intentioned customer who has little sense will not make such a contract, and if he does not make such a contract, there will be no privatisation. If there is no privatisation, there will be no solution for these 500 and some of the companies that are left. Therefore, I am not satisfied with the answer. My question is who gives the buyer the guarantee that he bought the property of the rights and obligations that were given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29278	The word has Minister Zeljko Sertic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29279	Just for a little while, even though I don't know how much time there is left. There is no privatisation entity that was the sphere of interest of an investor, and that the investor had not already sent his consulting house or team of people to do an assessment, so-called. "it is shared by Jens", and economic and legal expertise and any other kind. So, there's no buyer who's getting into something that's already unknown to him. So we're just defining that in the event of abuse, and we could have done that in the previous period of time to take some information to the Agency, and then we don't know who's responsible in the end line, now we know exactly, if the abuse happened, that something hidden in such a way that even the state couldn't trace, that even the customer interested in its expertise couldn't trace, we know who's responsible for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29280	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no basis for replication. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: I am not satisfied with the answer. That's your problem that you're not satisfied. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honorable Guests, I must first resent Mr. Arsic for one restriction now, while holding a session of the National Assembly. We haven't learned that he has that kind of approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29282	You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29283	Mr. Arsic, we have a really good debate. So, the minister defends one approach, it seems to me that it is possible to accept this amendment. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic explains very well why this approach is good. I think, gentlemen, there's no better situation than to come to what's best during the debate. You, Mr. Arsic, instead of encouraging such an approach, you are preventing dialogue. I really can't understand it right now, gentlemen. There, there's still a consultation on the Minister's team. Maybe this amendment of ours will be passed today, maybe the minister will change his mind, all depends on the strength of the argument, I believe. That is why I appreciate, gentlemen, that Minister Sertic, unlike some other ministers here, and before the start of the principle debate invited the heads of the parliamentary groups, Zoran Zivkovic, me, to attend a meeting to reveal what is in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. I have one grudge. Minister Sertic said – precisely because I am in the economy, because I spent 25 years in the private sector, I want the private sector to have a future in this country. Then after that, he says -- there is no business organisation, no association, no foreign investor's chamber that has come to Serbia without being personally accepted by the Prime Minister. Mr. Sertic, these are opposing statements. In the first you say - the economy above politics, and in the second, politics above the economy. Well, what is this state where every man's first address has to be Prime Minister? Well, I guess here we should create legal security conditions, first of all, so you don't have to think about the man who came to politics, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29284	You, Mr Pavicevic, surely agree with me that I should not violate the Rules of Procedure while I chair, and at least Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on Work, where clearly defined - the rules for discussion and exchange of opinions are within normal work and normal time, and the right to replication goes if someone at a session of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about a MP who is not the same member of the Parliament group, stating his name and last name or function, or misreading his presentation, etc. But if Mr. Minister himself was responsible, and he didn't misread the presentation, I don't see how I can help you, and I ask you to follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedures defined by Article 106 in the future. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29285	Why do I think this amendment is too much? The contract on the sale of capital shall be deemed to be concluded when signed by the buyer of the agency and certified by the competent state authority. At that moment, a sale relationship was concluded. You call it privatisation or whatever, it's a sale relationship. In Article 1, you say the contract must contain some basic elements. Among these basic elements is the subject of sales. End of story. The moment you close the deal, you know exactly what you're buying. The definition of property to me seems more like an internal thing between state authorities, which speaks of a difficult situation that exists in communication between state authorities. So this would be unacceptable if the state of Serbia had been a state for decades, so that you had an accurate estimate of capital, a clear functioning of business management in the company and a clear role of the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry. Then we could not possibly get into a situation where information about the value of liabilities and capital is different, but in Serbia it can. And if you can do that, then this is more of a confirmation of the fact that there is no clear coordination and poor functioning among individual institutions that are responsible for the privatisation process. As no company should be protected in the privatisation process, it is not necessary to protect the purchaser of these companies. Simply, there is a clear market mechanism. You have the right to control the operation and get all the information. This isn't the happiest procedure for anyone who buys. These aren't the safest jobs for anyone who buys these businesses. In this context, it is quite logical that the liability for the assessment is borne by the purchaser, and since the Agency precisely defines and this law accurately defines this sale relationship, then there is no reason to have a specification of the property, because it solves nothing essentially.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29286	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Dr Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29287	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers and honored guests, we have proposed that Article 12 be deleted for the simple reason that, when it comes to the draft law, amendments to the Law on Privatisation refer to the extension of the ban on enforcement under trustees' executive orders to debtors, i.e. privatisation entities up to 31. 2015. What are two questions for Mr. Minister, and I think they are very meaningful, since both Mr. Pavicevic and Zivkovic and Mrs. Aleksandra Jerkov have remained in wonder when it comes to disrespecting the Constitutional Court's decision in this case. Even they couldn't even be surprised. Here, I ask you a question, and you try to answer me. Respect for the Constitutional Court’s decision to prevent enforcement has been declared unconstitutional. So, even when it comes to Article 12 and when it comes to Article 13. It's the next amendment we've submitted as the DS Parliament Club. Why does the promoter ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, when it is clear that the Privatisation Act, although it is very, as you said, reformal, is not and will not give any positive effects in this case? So, we have a complete violation of constitutional decisions and I believe that this is primarily important because of you as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for whom, I repeat, we have certain sympathies, since you are the last person to enter a sinking ship. So it is important that you answer this question for a simple reason, which is very important that we agree the sublaws with the law, and not vice versa, and on the other hand legal acts with the Constitution, which is necessary in order for one legal system to be fully rounded up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29288	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 12th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Dr Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29289	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, to thank the minister for having real understanding, and for what should practically be taken into account in every law, and this is about people who with disabilities employ other people with a special need and people who are engaged in professional rehabilitation, for the simple reason that somewhere, when it comes to privatisation and bankruptcy, these people are completely forgotten. Therefore, it was very important for such an amendment to be included in this part of the law and found as an integral part of a concept that we have here, which is that, nevertheless, the preservation of some strategic, not only companies, but also strategic goals that Serbia must think about, regardless of having to complete the privatisation process, must never be forgotten. Because it is believed that the process of professional rehabilitation itself and people who are working and persons with a certain type of disability and with special needs is a significant resource of this country and that they themselves want to be an integral part of Serbia's economic activities. Thank you for respecting this opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29290	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) In the same text, Members of the People Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Goran Ćirić and joint MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29291	Article 13 is a new member, i.e. introduces a new member, which reads: “Attesting a privatisation entity designated by the Government Act as a privatisation entity of strategic importance and a privatisation entity whose head office is located on KIM or the property of KIM cannot continue, i.e. to initiate an emergency enforcement and forced collection procedure within one year. “ This introduces a large legal uncertainty for those people, or those companies that did business with those economic operators. This means that until today someone could work with the company that the government will declare strategic after the adoption of this law. So today I don't know if any of the companies are strategic, I work with him, I sell them something today, I arrange a four-day payment, not someone longer, but a short payment, and you pass the law tomorrow, and I can't charge for anything I've sold. It's absolute legal uncertainty and I don't know how you think you're justifying this, either legally or economically, in any way. It doesn't matter. You say in the explanation of 25,000 workers again. What do 25,000 workers have to do with someone who runs this company getting into a bad contract today and then you're defending him so he doesn't have to pay what he arranged today? It's absolute legal uncertainty. I understand the need to protect some companies, first of all these in KIM, but it absolutely cannot be done in this way. I think this is an amendment that you have to accept, if you think what you're doing has anything to do with the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29292	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29293	I'll be very brief. For each relationship, it takes two sides, and for a business relationship. Every company needs to take care of who it works with, and that is one of the positive and normal relationships in business. If you're already at a certain risk and no one's forcing you, then that's your problem. On the other hand, this is about extending the protection of enterprises that are already under restructuring. You can't charge these companies with executive judgments today. We are only asking for an extension in this period of up to a year for these companies that we have proposed and which the government will bring to one of its next sessions, but I repeat, the basis of business arrangements is volunteering. No one can make you sell goods or services or anything to someone, if you don't want them to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29294	According to Mr Pavicevic's recommendation, the right to replica has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29295	It would be good if it took two sides. I agree, of course. Every job, every contractual relationship has at least two sides, in this case two. But here comes the third party, which is the government of Serbia, which is the one contract that I repeat, we put in position, let go of what's already agreed, unpaid and in court, but I'm telling you that today we're making a deal, you change the law tonight, I'm in a contract and the two sides thought I'd be able to charge it if the other party, contrary to the law, avoids paying, and now you're giving, you're legalizing the possibility of another party that's strategic, in your opinion, to play the law. The contract is the goodwill of the two sides, but also the respect of the law. So it's not just good faith. We can make a deal about anything so it's against the law and then go to jail, or so it should be, and you here are legalizing illegal behavior. I think that's the basic problem and that's why we intervened both Mr Pavicevic and the other promoters and I with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29296	Right on line, Minister Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29297	I am fully aware of your principled position that you are against the protection of companies, extended protection of companies, and you have made it very clear in all previous amendments, and that is quite clear to me. But I'd just like to comment on your example in which you've given that, if someone were to sign a contract yesterday or tomorrow, we'd be putting them at extra risk. If someone doesn't know what companies we're dealing with, and everyone in the country knows how many problems we have and how many problems we're going to be published very quickly, and on the other hand, we've already announced certain companies that might come into that group. On the third hand, these companies have been in trouble for so many years, and we have talked about it, all MPs have commented, that everyone knows very well what they are facing, and I think that, apart from this legal interpretation, in real life, it is very well known who you are doing business with, how the risk in this business is recognised and I don't think there will be any such mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29298	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Arsic, Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman of today's session, Honored Minister Sertic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I must first note here that Mr. Arsic has noticed that he has previously made a mistake and corrected his mistake now. I highly appreciate all the people who, when they realize they're wrong, don't make the same mistakes and now Mr. Arsic has ensured that our debate is going on here. Well done, Mr. Arsic. Then let me tell Mr. Sertic now. Now, Mr. Sertić, I can't tell you -- well done, because right about our amendment here, I think you're now facing the mistakes you've made when you claim it's a good thing that sometimes the laws change a lot. Here, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic has now faced you on a specific case with a problem that arises in such situations. What is the key problem, gentlemen, is this particular case. I also see that SNS MPs are now closely following, and Mr Jovičić, and Martinović, and Kovacevic, etc., the problem is that we are entering the sphere of legal uncertainty, and legal uncertainty, respected gentlemen, is always a key obstacle to both investment and developing a functioning market economy. Mr Sertić, not only legal certainty, but an even greater principle of legal certainty, and based on that principle, Mr Sertić, and predictability of business. It is the principle of rule of law, in Article 3 of our Constitution defined as a basic principle. If we have a rule of law, if we have legal certainty, if we have predictable business conditions, that's that, Mr Sertić, and they're not predictable, they're not clear, it's not all favourable, when instead of the rule of law we're dealing with the rule of man, or the rule of man, there's no conditions for market economy, for which, formally, Mr Sertić, I've noticed, you stand up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29300	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29301	By amendment. I thank you, Mr. Arsic. This is the last personal amendment I have submitted, wanting the legal solution to be better and more effective, I have one question which, Prime Minister of the Democratic Party asked me to stand by, Mr Ivan Stefanovic, through me personally, you, as Minister of Business of the Republic of Serbia. You yourself said you were left with hot potatoes that you don't even know how to deal with in the next period. It is 17 strategic companies and 25,000 workers working in these companies. You are aware that this delay will give us a much greater debt in these companies in a year than it is today. You are aware that additional funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget will be paid to these companies in order to remain alive and remain on the market. You are also aware that the plan to revitalise these companies is still missing. You are also aware that the investor and strategic partners for these companies also do not have that they would otherwise be known to Serbian citizens. Now, one question is, do you perhaps have a plan to save at least 15,000 workers from these 25,000 workers, if you would do so today? The bankruptcy you predicted the day after the extraordinary parliamentary elections, and then from these companies and businesses there will be nothing left. Do you think, if you don't have the prime minister's pressure on you personally, if you do this reform venture today, you'll get from us and support for something like that, to maybe save 25, at least 15 grand, because in a year, none of them will be saved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29302	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29303	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the incredible concern of the previous public office speaker. That this question was addressed by the government minister in the shadow of the Democratic Party, I think we must give an adequate answer, given that this is a very serious government that has already shown the first results in these two months since the formation, although we have not seen them. Those results were probably left in the shadows. Is it possible that someone today is completely contradictory in terms of what some companies are going into bankruptcy, and now what we want to keep is said – so what are you delaying? Why don't you push them, as fast as you can into the break-in that you pushed them into? The previous speaker has to know one thing, that we're trying to postpone the time to solve 17 companies, and maybe the state will give some money to find people who are going to privatize it in a normal way and that it's no longer a robbery privatisation like in your time. But we protect 17 strategic ones, you protect 400 of those companies from which you took money into your own pockets, and then raised credits under unfavourable conditions to grant subsidies and to maintain yourself in power. So, what's the shame? This is a bold decision in which we want to preserve 21,500 workers at work, and these 17 companies have already entered the privatisation process, there are already people who are interested. When we talk about FAP, IKARBUS and other companies. Well, are you now giving lectures to us who had over 104 enterprises that were in restructuring then sold and how good contracts were. Of them 104, 87 returned to the state again, for they must have been great businessmen, left behind, who have earned money in this country in a responsible, fair and fair way. They weren't, they were officials who were close to your party, and that's how you treated public enterprises, but that practice was interrupted. You've had cases in the past, that someone close to your government wants to buy some company, he bought it before the company bought it, he puts the company under mortgage, takes the money and then gets it from that company. You've done a lot of things. You had the ropes and the banks, and the authorities, and the politicians, and the tycoon, you did what you wanted. This practice is finally over and I'm not saying that SNS MPs are not aware that it's difficult for these workers. Well, it is hard. These are workers who haven't received months' wages, who have a hard time living, who have families, who have children they support and who school. But one key question has been raised since 2000, and here, when you promised fairy tales, a better life, when you promised new jobs, that these companies would be privatized in the most honest and transparent way. What happened in the meantime? Just answer that question. It's always a good criticism if it comes from someone who's honest and honest and who wants to change for the better, but when criticism comes from you, well, it's really a shame. Those of you who dispossessed those companies, took away, took away whatever you wanted. Since 2000, we've been here. All parties that have left DOS, everything, and as I see it, are expected to continue to split, how complex you are and how much you think of the people. We want in every possible way to finally cross with the past in the sense that something that can no longer work because of outdated technology, because of the global environment on the market, we find a solution to how in the most painless way to bridge it and that the money that we've spent, at 700, 800 million euros a year, you left it to us, because you knew best, how to shift it into a real sector, into a healthy economy, and how to finally get a chance in a year, two days to work in the real sector. Something that also brings revenue to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, something that will be positive in all of our country's balance sheets and our cash registers, and we are fundamentally different. We're fundamentally different. We're all aware of how you treated public enterprises and at least you have the right to talk about it. So let us work for the welfare of generations to come. You only knew you were working for your personal interests and you knew you were buying votes before the election. As you can see, we'll have local and regional elections, but we don't think we're buying them. The easiest thing would be for Zeljko Sertić, Minister or Alexander Vukic to say -- you know, let's call in a three-billion loan. Well, to put the money in the hole again, into the well, to get some local, circuit, or any other election. We will not treat our country like this, our people. These painful cuts that have to be carried out, we've taken over ourselves, we don't have that support in you, of course, and we don't, because you only knew that you were acting the other way around. And that's to deceive us, to deceive us, and of course, most of the citizens in these public enterprises to rob us. And you knew that you were really doing it the best possible way, but that practice is over. And therefore, as a folk MP, as a young man living in this country, who, of course, plans to live for the next 30, 40 years in this country, it is an honor for you to take measures that will leave for generations to come, our Serbia, no matter who is in power at that moment. It's important to us to establish a system, a system so we don't pull money out of the people's pockets anymore and push into something that doesn't come back in any way, in profit, in productivity, in nothing. And that's what we've been looking at for years. That's why it's time to break up with those young people you're calling on to leave this country, and most of all since 2000, when you've introduced major reforms, to keep them in this country, and to work in the real sector, in real economy, in a healthy economy. And to achieve that, we will certainly not do so by promising honey and milk, as you said in 2008, when the global crisis began, there will be a chance for Serbia. We say - the chance for Serbia is work, discipline and to break up with things that are a burden for our people, for our economy and for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29304	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29305	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 13, speaks of the protection of companies of strategic importance and the protection of 25,000 employees. Suggesting that this member is deleted, not only inhumane, but also in certain companies and businesses, it looks crazy. I'll give you an example of the PKK. So, the PKK managed by the former regime's party through the City of Belgrade, which in 2011, had a debt of 1,900,000, so less than 20m euros. After that, the winning economic policy in Belgrade made the PKK a debtor whose debt increased by two and a half years by 70m euros and amounted to 10 billion dinars. So that's the economic policy that makes the winners the losers. The PKK has 19,000 hectares of agricultural land, state-owned agricultural land that was given to it without compensation, which was attached to it, which private agricultural producers pay rent from about five to six million euros. And that didn't help make this kind of loss, so let's say in that period, for the three stables that cost, it was supposed to cost three and a half million euros, which were made without a building permit and which, to this day, do not have a license to do so, instead of spending 12m euros instead of three and a half million euros. So a cow's barn costs over 10,000 euros for each cow, if they had built houses on that land full of comfort, it would have cost less than they'd cost her herds. I note that these were the three that were built by a company that had never been involved in any construction, a company from Kickinda that was mainly involved in the sale of certain parts. The PKK is from a secure winner a job lost and behold, they have tried, most likely because of future privatisation, that the PKK, which has eight thousand hectares of its land, attaches 19,350 hectares of agricultural land, building land 835 hectares and 1,279 hectares of other land, which is a total of 21,471 hectares. In that period, the “PKB” converted 509 hectares of land into Kovilov 99 hectares into Ovca 410 hectares. If I tell you that Lidl and the MPC company, it seems to me, paid a hectare of building land in that area of 850 to 900 thousand euros, it doesn't take much sense to multiply 509 hectares with that sum and to get how much this error-converted land, how much it cost, not just the "PKB" and the City of Belgrade, but how much it cost this country. This is where it occurs, especially from the party of the former regime, as if we have found the ideal state, as if we have found an ideal economy that delivers money to everyone, which guarantees good wages, good pensions, full employment. It's as if we haven't found a completely broken, crippled, abandoned and abandoned state with a business system that's by the number of unemployed, and with an average nation 42 years old, we've made it quite clear that we don't have an economy that can carry wages and pensions to this population and at the same small amount as it is now. The Serbia we found was a straight march. There were conditions for life, but there was no life in it. It is also unacceptable for the former regime's party to do everything here to do nothing in the future, to continue this abandoned and abandoned situation. I don't want to say that they need to keep quiet but they need to look at the results that are obvious and that the economy is almost decimated, that jobs have been cleaned up and that natural and created resources have mostly used their friends to increase their enormous wealth, and that the population has remained completely unsettled and that these natural resources have not been for the benefit of all inhabitants but only for the benefit of certain people, and therefore this social wealth has become in the pockets of a certain number, a small number of people. The Serbia that we need to build, because there was no state in this country, needs to be built a state and a new business system in which there will be bread after and for all. In which no one will be poor anymore, no one should be barefoot, no one should be naked. So Serbia must naturally create good things to create conditions that everyone has the right to a piece of bread, to a roof over his head, and to have a certain perspective. The state we found was such that there wasn't enough black paint to paint the condition that was found. So, you need to turn the sheet. I respect that the chairman has a certain tolerance for the opposition, given that he has had experience with the Rigid Rules of Procedure and the rigid interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind objecting, but we all need to know that we need to build a state in a state where there was no state and that our job is a direct attempt to make fish stew an aquarium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29306	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a five-minute break until the minister returns to the O.R. We're going back to work. The 15th amendment was submitted by MPs Vladimir Pavicevic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29308	Article 15 is a new member who continues a series of members who bring legal uncertainty into this area. In fact, Article 15 reads - privatisation procedures start until the date of entry into force of this law, meaning starting under the old law before the amendments, will continue under the provisions of this law. Imagine that some investor, a buyer of capital, is potentially applying for some privatisation, enters the privatisation process, and then, in half of the process, you change the conditions. It's like playing football and then the judge tells you at one point - and now we're playing water polo. You, since you have no idea about water polo and the question is do you know how to swim, are at risk of drowning in the whole game. There is no excuse to do such a thing, and in particular it is not given in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment which is absolutely pointless. In consultation, I asked the minister how many companies we have that are in the privatisation process where the privatisation process was started. A few, 2,3,4 were said, and then this reason is no longer to be introduced by one such member who can fall very easily in the Constitutional Court, and certainly can cause increased doubt from investors and whether to enter into the privatisation process at all, in Serbia, because there is always someone who can call on this Article 15 or constantly change the laws, so that when you enter a privatisation process, you get completely new conditions. I think, this amendment, of course, like everyone else, but this one, in particular, deserves to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29309	Anyone else want a word? The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vjesinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, etc. Blagoje Bradic. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29310	Thank you. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests from the Ministry and from the Agency, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have tabled an amendment to Article 17 which has only one position, and we have added another position. The original proposal of the Government reads – The Ministry of Business Affairs continues to exercise control and verification of property transformation procedures and assessment of the value of capital, which are initiated and not completed, as well as the control of the assessment of the value of the capital of the participants of the status changes. We suggest adding a second position, in addition to this position proposed by the Government, which is said to be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly through the committee responsible, an annual report on the effects of the application of this law. We have given an explanation, given the importance of this law, that is, the importance of ending the privatisation process, but given that certain exceptions are introduced by amendments and additions, as regards the period of completion of privatisation, as well as the postponement of the process of enforcement, over the entities of privatisation, it is very important to establish a special commitment of the Government, that it is precisely on the subject of the application of this law that a report is submitted to the National Assembly. You have answered, just to find - that the amendment is not accepted, because according to existing legal solutions, the Law on Public Agencys and the Law on Privatisation, at the monthly level, reports on the work of the Privatisation Agency are adopted, and in accordance with Article 84(3) in force. The Privatisation Act, the Ministry of Economy, is required to submit monthly reports on the state of the privatisation process to the National Assembly’s competent committee, as well as to provide all the necessary information and information at the request of the competent committee. Your legitimate right is not to accept our amendment. I think it's good to discuss it once a year, like we're discussing today. It is a matter of the congregation's majority whether what is happening about privatisation is necessarily heard or, if necessary, a legitimate attitude. I think you should accept this proposal, although monthly reports are submitted by the Agency, it is the turn that the Government once a year, since it is a very important topic, comes before the MPs, whatever the report is. That's our proposal, and you're welcome, I hope you'll accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29311	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29312	We did not accept this amendment because it would change already the rules that exist and you have explained yourself that the Government is submitting, or the Ministry is submitting reports to the Assembly, etc., with this, since you have particularly focused this process and all this is happening today. As Minister of Economy, I am now telling you that I am in the mood at any time, whenever, as a Assembly, you invite me here, five times a year, five times a month, anytime I come to give you a comprehensive report for every company, for the status of every company, and for any part of the privatisation process, and that way we can resolve all the issues more easily. On the other hand, the media are familiar with all the processes, we call on all the other parties to be involved in all the processes, so that in this way not only would we do the transparent processes, what we do, but to help us in the process that and thus pressure the public all the factors of the process make them do their job both faster and more efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29313	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovic and joint MPs Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vjevinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaže Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29314	This new article 18, where for what time in the last few years has broken the Constitution with a deadline since the law is in force, the constitutional provision is that it should be eight days from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger". Here is a formulation to take effect on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", that I am not now going into an explication of how difficult it is to determine when it is published and when it comes into effect, whether it is in the morning, at noon, afternoon, to return to the essence. There is no reason to reject this amendment because this is what we want the constitutional provision to be applied. The reason for the refusal of the amendment says – because, at the end of this month, it means the day after tomorrow, it sets out the deadline for protecting these companies, and I ask – and what have you been waiting for so far? Why didn't you do it a month ago? You have a Prime Minister working 18 hours a day. Well, if you had worked at least two hours a day, you might have come to this situation to bring this along, to put it on the Assembly's agenda, so that it can endure the respect of the Constitution. However, since it was signed by the Prime Minister, it is obvious that it is better that he does not work 18 hours a day, because when he works 18 hours a day he does nothing that would be useful for this country and for this people. Therefore, it is true that it must begin to apply against the constitutional deadline, but the reason for this is the government's irresponsible behaviour. Once again, I didn't get an answer to Article 15's question. - Why is the legal certainty of the minister's investor changing, you didn't give me an answer unless you were defending yourself with silence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29315	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29316	Thank you. Mr. Minister, a colleague explained that since we have the same proposal, we have proposed that in Article 18 instead of you wrote that this law enters into force on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", that this happens on the eighth day, and normally would have broken the deadline, today is May 27th, the deadline for protection that was passed under the old law that was passed a year ago was May 31st, and then all this would have fallen into the water, because trustees would have sued the economic operators as you say and would not have that capital needed to privatise, it would have collapsed. Now let's go back a few members. When I asked to extend the deadline from 30 to 45 days, from 15 to 30 days, you said it should be in accordance with the law, and I told you it was not up to you, but depends on people you can't influence. Well, if your people were in the ministry that you're running told you that the law is coming out and that it needs to be extended, if you had just entered this procedure seven days earlier, this would have been passed by law, i.e. within eight days of the day of making the decision to publish in “The Official Messenger, ” on the eighth day, and we would have no reason to honor you. It's normal for you as one man to be unable to track what the entire ministry is doing. It's one system. It's a machine that works, where every bolt must know its place. Now, that's why I asked for an extension, because that's what we talked about last year at this time. Of course it was all our fault, and it's okay, no problem. We're guilty. But it's been a year, we haven't moved a line. Well, it's our fault again. All right, let's do it again and blame it on us. But the problem is what happens with 92,000 jobs. If we push them into a tight frame, if we cut deadlines, we'll pass the law, but the effects won't be what we want and expect. That's the problem. That's why I insisted that the deadlines remain, not that I would have something against the congregation's majority, but I am convinced that what could not have ended for so long, I am talking about nine months, ten, as long as there has been since the adoption of this law last year, now we are asking it to end again with short deadlines and obligations that must be met in a very short time. With that I think we will have problems and please if you can in any way accept these amendments before the vote or as a proposal from the Committee, however, and give a chance to at least those who have a hint of hope and to stay in their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29317	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29318	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, so that we work 24 hours cannot solve the problems that remained behind our predecessors, which from 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. But a proposal of this kind has already been seen in many legal solutions. In this legal solution, it destroys the concept of all these amendments and additions to the law. It destroys the concept in general and in some way solving problems in these 17 strategic enterprises. After all, it ruins the concept of keeping as many as 25,000 jobs as possible, so that such an amendment is not accepted for a reason, and I think that in the future it really needs to be said that the proposings do not agree at all with such legal proposals and that they simply articulate it through their amendments, which are linked to certain constitutional solutions. Of course, it is not against the law to enter into force after publication in the Official Journal, and by day of voting and of course it is one replacement thesis, but in this case it is a need because, nevertheless, we have one responsible government, we have one responsible congregation majority who thinks of all the 92,000 workers, especially those 25,000 covered by this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29319	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Dr Blagoja Bradic, there are two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29320	I thank you. I'll try to be quick. My colleague did not understand me, but I will repeat it for the sake of the Serbian citizens. Therefore, the legal obligation and the legal procedure is for the law to enter into force eight days after its publication in the “Official Messenger”. I said that this law must be passed by 31, because that's when the legal protection of enterprises passed by the past law you passed, which you set the deadlines, which you voted here less than a year ago. I'm just saying that it's irresponsible by professional services, whether it's the ministry or the government, which this law did not pass seven days earlier. There is no reason for this to come seven days later and then we would not be in a situation to pass a law that, by emergency procedure, urgently decides to come into effect immediately after the publication of the "Official Messenger". Here's the basic problem, colleague. There's a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29321	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and detail and in general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Miroslav Markicev, Velimir Stojanovic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Janko Veseninović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Zoran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoje Bradic. You have received a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the bill in particular. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break by 4:30 and we'll continue the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29322	We apologize for the misrepresentation. We'll continue the session at 3:30. Thank you. [[after breaks]] On the basis of Article 168(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MP group of the Serbian Progressive Party, proposed to put on the agenda of this session a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 May 2015. In accordance with Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal to put on the agenda for the election, appointment, execution, termination of office, following an urgent procedure during the session, the National Assembly may decide, provided that the sittings are attended by most of the total number of MPs. In order to determine the voting quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary voting units. I would like to put the motion on the agenda of the sitting. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to item 4 of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the People's General Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Zoran Babic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since we don't have a list of speakers, I am concluding a unique search into the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, May 27th, 2015, starting in 15.40 minutes, as the Day of Vote on agendas of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-27-0.u29324	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – one abstention – there is no vote, six of the 155 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs of Zoran Babic and Dr Aleksandra Tomic to Article 1. (with corrections), 2, 7 and 12 and National MPs Nenad Chanka, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djorđa Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapa on Articles 4 and 5. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Zoran Zivkovic in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was filed by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was filed by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment with correction was filed by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of 11 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 154 of the 161 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Goran Ciric and a group of nine MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 154 of the 161 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, the same text was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, MP Zoran Zivkovic, a group of nine MPs from the Democratic Party Group and a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 155 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 18. The bill provides for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In accordance with Article 196(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – seven abstentions – there are none, none who did not vote out of the total of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act. 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Standardization Act I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Standardisation Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted for two of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, in the same text, to the members 3 and 8; the MPs Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandra Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic to Members 3 and 9; the MPs Miroslav Markic and Velimir Stanojevic to Article 8. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 5th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Standardisation Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted for one of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Standardisation Act. 3rd item of the agenda — Proposal for a DECISION ON THE SECURITATION OF THE REFERENCE REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 28(1) The law prohibiting discrimination, the National Assembly of Elections of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality by the majority of the votes of all MPs, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – seven abstentions – there are no votes, four of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate Mrs. Branko Jankovic on her election and wish her a lot of success in her work. 4th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I put to the vote Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, abstentioned – there are two who have not voted out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Dr Vesna Rakonjac, at a session on 26 May 2015, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 107 at 13 hours and 52 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Assembly to decide whether the said members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 27 May 2015, pointed out at 11 o'clock and three minutes to the violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Assembly to decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 27 May 2015, pointed at 11 o'clock and five minutes to the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Assembly to decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 158 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, at a session on 27 May 2015, at 13 hours and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Assembly to decide whether or not the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - four, abstentions - no, 149 of the total of 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Please listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia.
