ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27810	Thank you. Dear President, first of all, I think you missed that, under Rule 87, let us know why we're working on Fridays, which is not the usual day for work, according to the Rules of Procedure. Article 87 obliges you to explain why, if we do things other than Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. You also said that, as MPs, we received the opinion of the committees in charge. We only received the opinion of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives did not meet this morning, before the beginning of this session, there was no quorum, MPs of the ruling majority did not come to the meeting of the Committee, the Committee did not take place, and we do not have the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. So, we can, according to the Rules of Procedure, discuss, but that committee did not give an opinion on the amendments. Amendment to Article 2. The bill, our amendment is to delete this Article 2, because it is foreseen by amendments and additions to this law to charge taxes for the issue of legislation, in terms of the rules governing the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia. The amount of tax, according to this proposal, should be determined by the minister, and the funds from the fee are the permanent revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, are paid in the account -- prescribed for the payment of public revenues. We are against such a solution, and we also talked about it in principle. Why? In this way, another new tax is introduced into the budget system, another parafiscal imposition, contrary to the economic policy of the government that was adopted here in the Assembly just over a year ago within the framework of the prime minister's exposé, which has been telling us almost three hours about what economic policy will be run by the government. One of the important things is the reduction of taxis and parafiscal charges, which should facilitate business in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, like many other things from that exposé, it has not been achieved. On the contrary, they do the opposite. A year ago, the number of taxis was 372, today it is number 384, and when we adopt this amendment and the addition of the law, it will be 385 taxis and parafiscal charges. It is certainly contrary to the economic policy presented by the government, this majority, whether it supported the government's election more than a year ago. Simply, the claim that this amendment was rejected by the Government in its reasoning is not to introduce a tax, but only to regulate that this law will be prescribed by the Minister's decision on the amount of tax and where that money will go is simply not true. So far, article 62 has read – the ID of private security officers is issued by the Ministry. Dot. There's no telling that there's something to pay for it. Legal persons dealing with private security business pay taxes, through employee earnings, through various other income taxes they make and similar things. We think it's enough from those funds that the Ministry will, without compensation, issue these IDs. It is not a large amount of funding, but the state's attitude towards businesses, towards those who make profits and the full budget of the Republic of Serbia. So we think there's no need for this tax, there's no room for it and it's the opposite of economic policy. That's why we don't understand the rejection of our amendment. I call on the ruling majority to accept our amendment, in line with the economic policy set out in the prime minister's exposé, and do not allow a new tax and parafiscal imposition to be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27811	Thank you. Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic has a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27812	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course this is not true, it's absolutely incorrect. Since this bill does not introduce any new parafiscal impose, it is simply a matter of compensation for the cost of producing a document for private security members, i.e. a fee for a public service provided, just as it is charged to citizens, for example, the issue of personal documents, as citizens also pay taxes. At the same time, when they transferred it to the Republic of Serbia's budget, all citizens would pay one public service provided to a particular business entity that through its activity is gaining profits. So, you would then finance through the budget, and the budget is the fact that companies and citizens are paying through taxes, you would in this way finance the implementation of the private activity of a business entity and the achievement of its profits in one small part, though, but this would result in the inequality of other citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been back and back in the days of previous governments, and especially during the period of 2008 to 2012, especially in the time of the government, which would pay different taxes and taxes, and how the economy lived in those years and how wonderful they were from 2008 to 2012, the companies and individuals who were left without a job and who had to close themselves during that period. They know how wonderful they were under that fiscal policy, under that economic authority. Therefore, this change regarding the determination of the level of tax by the minister does not introduce any spectacular newspaper because the minister is obliged to apply the methodology for calculating the fees applied and when prescribing tariff numbers in the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes and no new imposition is introduced, but only the relevant taxi prescriber is changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27813	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27814	So, no new parafiscal impose, just making up for the service provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27815	Thank you. The word is Sonja Vlahović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27816	Thank you, Your Honor. I would first apologize to the Minister for reporting after him, since he explained extensively why such an amendment was not accepted, but I simply need to report, on behalf of my fellow SNS MPs, and explain why this amendment to Article 2 which my colleagues have submitted, was not accepted, that the amendment should be deleted. Article 2 is proposed to supplement Article 62. The law, adding paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, stipulating the obligation to pay a fee for the issuance of the ID of private security officials, would compensate for the costs of its production and issue. Taxes can be prescribed by one law in accordance with the regulations governing the budget system of the Republic of Serbia, while its height can also be determined by means of a sublaw by applying the prescribed methodology. Without such a supplement, the 62nd ministry would face major difficulties and problems in issuing the legislation. The minister himself said the funds from the fee were the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course I won't vote for this amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27817	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27818	Mr. Minister, Madam President, I agree with you and your argument to Mr. Stefanovic. I agree with the argument that this is not an additional imposition, but in reason it clearly states that there are costs and the production and issuance of the necessary legislation. I am afraid that the law stipulates that these costs fall on the budget of the Republic of Serbia so that the same amendments would propose an amendment to be paid anyway, as they would say - you take some of the others to give to the private business. Now that private business, like many others, pays only the basic cost of issuing the ID, no profits, no charges, and then why is that, why don't you pay for it to someone else? There's no continuity, there's no archaic. The only artisan of the amendment promoter is to write an amendment and get time for criticism. No matter what we suggest, there will be some criticism, and that is why I am against accepting such an amendment and the SNS in Vote Day, and I believe it will be within hours, will not give my vote to accept this amendment. On the other hand, where luck comes from, Mr. Minister, that we found the state register in 2012 and 2014, that we found it far healthier public finances. I wish in 2012, we hadn't found so much funds in the budget for 15 days, just for half a pension, for half a salary in the public sector, that was the life of public finances in Serbia after a tsunami that ruled Serbia for 12 years. Maybe if those finances were better, maybe if the deficit hadn't grown by some very strange progress, if it hadn't been for the borrowings without thinking, that these loans weren't for commercial banks, not just the International Monetary Fund or the European Bank. Maybe then we can think about the situation, too, so the state can take on some of these things to betray and accept these costs on itself. But then we're not the same guy who put lead bucagies on our society's feet with our public finances, and now he wants the same government to run the world record, run the Olympics. Is something like that possible? No, it's not. Although I know I'm going to get a review now - so you know you're going back. We're always coming back from the starting point to show how much we've done and what we've done, and that's why I'm proud to say that for the first four months of this year that it's not a loan and it's not interest on the loans that you left us, the budget would be in the surplus, and when you had one meat community that you ran that was in the surplus, never. For you, surplus is an unknown word. There's no such thing as a surplus for you. There are world records in the deficit as you did in Belgrade City, 22% of Belgrade's budget deficit, and we are now fighting for a deficit that will be below 4%. Because of the arguments that you said to Mr Stefanovic, and because of the arguments that really stand out that this is not an imposition on the economy that we are looking at to relax the Labour Act, the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Banks, the Law on Construction, the set of reform laws that we have adopted or which we will adopt in the future, we relax the economy, and not in a way that for some categories of companies we will do something on behalf of the state, because then and then we would get the same criticism from the same people, because there is no continuity in politics, there is only continuity in political hatred.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27819	I can only give it to you in respect of your time because the views of the MPs have been expressed here. So you're not looking for a replica. You're looking to discuss it further. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27820	Yeah, not those two minutes by accident, maybe we'll save some money in the budget. So none of the arguments of all my colleagues, predecessors and Mr. Secretary are simply correct. So, so far, it's been written in the law - the ID of private security officers issued by the ministry. Dot. There's no cost, and there's no cost to cover. There are two ways. One is the one you suggested, it's to introduce a tax. Taxes are charged in terms of regulations governing the budget system of the Republic of Serbia and so on. So, it's being introduced by these tax changes that never existed before. The second solution was to be issued without any charge of any kind. Whether it's right or wrong. Would you tell me what they'd tell me in that case? Well, don't discuss it that way. Let's not speculate what they would have done to me if the ministry hadn't suggested this, let's just say it was an argument. Would you suggest something else? Well, where will this discussion take us? So you're introducing a new tax. And I'm telling you, it's the opposite of the economic policy you adopted here. In 2012, there were fewer than 350 taxis and parafiscal charges. Today there are 384, and when we adopt them, that is, when you adopt them, it will be 385. It's more, not less than in 2012, as it is now, Mr. Minister, that I teach you something. In 2012, the budget deficit was 4.5% and last year was 7%. You're now fighting to bring it down below 6%. With the plan, the budget plan, the fiscal plan for the next three years, you plan only in 2018 to reach that level 4.5%. These are the results of your work. We want to talk about who owed this country. The external debt of the Republic of Serbia was 15.4 billion euros in July 2012. Today is 24.2 billion, 8.8 billion. So you're in charge of this country. These are the exact numbers you can look at, if you don't know the exact numbers of the Ministry of Finance and the Public Debt Administration. Every month they publish it, I don't make it up, Mr. Minister. At the start of the 2008 Hatred Government's mandate, external debt amounted to 8.6 billion euros. So, by four years, it increased by 6.8 billion euros, by four years. In three years, 8.8 billion euros has been increased. Within a year, the debt from 20.4 billion was increased to 24.2 billion. That's the debt you've made in the last year. You. Those are Mr. Minister's numbers that are correct. Those are the exact numbers. You're not telling the truth when you're explaining why I'm criticizing this solution. Everything I've told you is accurate and verifiable. You are now trying to deny me – is the debt increased by almost four billion in the last year – the euro? Yes or no? It's very simple. You can check it out. You can tell a lie a thousand times here, but in the end, it won't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27821	Please, MP, what kind of address is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27822	What's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27823	A lie? Please, there are other words in our language for that. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27824	I'll call the truth or the lie, I don't see much difference...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27825	I'm just asking. You know it's not nice for us when you tell someone you're lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27826	I didn't tell anyone - you're lying. I didn't say someone was lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27827	I beg you, at least not in my environment. I guess we're similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27828	I said that a certain claim was a lie, not that someone was lying. So this is the exact data, Mr. Minister, and the fact that you don't know them can't take you, you can't use false arguments when we're discussing it here. Let's talk about the exact data. I was only saying here what exactly exactly, which you can check. So you're introducing this member a new tax that didn't exist in the previous law. You found that yourself here in the light of the law and you wrote that it could have been introduced in two ways, a new tariff number was introduced in the Republic Administrative Tax Act or something. So, the new tax, the new 385, so the taxi number's going up, it's not going down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27829	Minister Stefanovic, I can give you a replica. Two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27830	Of course, there's been a lot of lies, a lie, the way it suits who. I'm sorry, since he said his colleague Djurisic that those are words that are perfectly fine with him, I wouldn't want him to be considered offended because I don't use the same words. Of course, however, the height of the decibel is not an argument. Speaking of which, this is not a parafiscal imposition, so it's only cost compensation, because you have an option a) or that the costs are compensated by all citizens of Serbia and that we transfer it to citizens, such as the previous authorities have been very happy to do in many years backwards, or that those who use it later pay it and profit from certain actions, which is completely natural and normal. But when we talk about what Mr. Djurisic probably doesn't know enough, when we talk about external debt and deficits, we need to remind ourselves how it came about. Since the deficit is most often, external debt is the most growing because of the increase in deficits. The deficit went up to 7-8, and up to 9% in years when the government, owned by Mr. Djurisic, led this country, and why did external debt increase, and why did this government have to be in charge? I will remind you that only for banks robbed by tycoons, who did not want to repay loans, only banks were damaged by the country because of the authorities of those who were wonderful and led the country, from 2008 to 2012, only for billions of euros, only for banks, such as "Vojvodine Development Bank" and similar, such as "Metals" banks, like all others that were destroyed and destroyed in our economic system. We have today, for those who don't know it, I mean, we have a deficit that is below 2.5% and will be this year, I believe, less than 3% of our country's total deficit, which will be a record low deficit, which today admits the IMF. These are data that you can verify in the IMF and with us, and this government has managed to significantly reduce this country's deficit, revive the economy, hire people. The government increased from 2008 to 2012 from 28% of GDP-level debt to 65%. It was a record borrowing and destruction of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27831	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27832	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, despite some MPs who have showered us with amendments for months -- "we are deleted", are not present today, apparently some MPs who have continued this practice, so we are in a position to discuss now the amendment that reads -- "we are deleted". I, of course, propose and call on the National Assembly to reject this amendment, or not to accept it, and what I find particularly problematic, is an explanation for such an amendment, which highlights the word, or sentence, that it is an increase in parafiscal burdens. Although we have heard unequivocally and arguments that it is not a matter of increasing the parafiscal burdens, and even today at the committee session, it has been pointed out several times, so the previous speaker, the speaker before the minister, repeated several times, thinking that by the number of untrues spoken, can increase the argument that there is an increase in parafiscal burdens, although that is something that is untrue and that we have so far been able to conclude. For all these reasons, I suggest we reject this amendment, but all the following amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27833	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27834	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I kept my application to the floor even though the minister explained everything in detail, and also my predecessors, for the simple reason that the opposition's intention is clear. In light of this amendment, the amendment is proposed because it is necessary to seek to reduce parafiscal burdens. What is important for Serbian citizens to hear is that the proposal for this law on changes and additions to the Private Security Act does not create new obligations for citizens and the economy, although it has been tried here to present itself differently. The fee provided for in the draft law is to compensate for the costs of the production and issue of documents, which the State Administration Authority aims to issue. A prescribed fee would certainly be charged through a system of republican administrative taxis, so it does not create a new, non-existent obligation for the private security sector so far. It is also clear that the cost of producing and issuing IDs for private security officers must be compensated by the state as well as the cost of issuing all other documents and documents issued to citizens. It would simply not be justified for the state to bear that burden, so I ask you to vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27835	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27836	Respect. Thank you. I'll use the time of the Parliament Club. I want to support the amendment given by my colleague Djurisic, because I believe that, regardless of what doesn't seem to us, it is a new imposition on people who are supposed to be employed in this sector. I remind you that there are no exact data, Mr. Minister, how many people are finally working in physical and technical security, they're being handled with a figure of 25,000 and even up to 60,000. Also, one major imposition will be their training, if it is true that the course will cost about 200 euros and if there are 40,000, that is eightm euros. So someone is going to make eightm euros at the expense of those people who are doing a very difficult job in Serbia today and whose watch is even cheaper than the lowest-paid Captain, such as cleaners. On the other hand, I would like to intervene on what my colleague Djurisic said, Mr. Minister, I would ask you for just one second, since you talked about how the debts were made, this is a site that, on a daily basis or in a second, updates the amount of debt that the Republic of Serbia has, currently says 25,453,000,000, which is 10,000,000,000 more than in July 2012. So if we're talking about a lie, about a lie, this is an exact information, I'm asking the camera, if you can show that it's seen, that the citizens of Serbia see it, so if you have any dilemma about what's standing here, you say it. Or if we're talking about the truth and the lie, I'd like to ask you one thing, you said something the other day, which is that your government arrested Saric and now you're saying it's true...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27837	Ambassador, we're talking about amendments. The data that's... I have to let you know that today we're talking about concrete amendments, and the notification of who arrested whom, we'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27839	To finish a sentence, it's important from the point of view. So, the truth is that Saric has surrendered...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27840	Ambassador, I ask you to return to the subject. Your MPs are often against my way of holding a session to let the talk go beyond the subject, and you are wasting the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27841	No, but don't waste my time right now. I could have finished it in 15 seconds. You took my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27842	So, I keep my mouth shut, so I let go, says who says what they want. Here, tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27843	As you just kept quiet, when Mr. Stefanovic was saying – a lie, and you're pretending not to hear it, now you're doing something else...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27844	Here, say whatever you want, whatever comes to mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27845	Mr. Stefanovic, as the Legion surrendered to the government of Vojislav Kostunica and told him to surrender to that government because he has confidence in that government... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place:... [[off microphone]] Saric also surrendered to your government because he has confidence in your government. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27846	You've been disfellowshipped, this isn't going into transmission, you're informally speaking to the minister, which I recommend that you do in the break, both to you and whoever you want. I know the minister always keeps the door open for the MPs and he'll talk to you on every subject. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What's the address only? ) You are a shadow minister, and you certainly know the address of the ministry where you may one day work. I thank you for your understanding. Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic must have a replica because you talked about everything except the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27847	Well, I'm just saying, of course it's not about any new commitment, especially since we have a very clear distinction. If we were to pass this on to the citizens, then all citizens would pay someone's release of personal documents to someone who performs certain work. Then why don't the citizens pay for everything else? According to that logic, citizens should then pay for the issue of every document produced for any other private firm. It's completely illogical. These companies earn profits and they have the right to do so. As for the arrangements of this area, it is for the first time arranged after 20 years. So the price, therefore, the price of training, is not decided by the MUP, but by the market. The interior ministry doesn't even carry out training, the MUP gives licenses to certain training institutions. How much are they gonna set up? It's a market thing. That's how it works in every normal country. It's just that the state doesn't determine everything. It determines what's part of it. What's part of it, you want to do some work, it's not social activity. It's an activity that makes someone profit. In order to make a profit, he must meet certain conditions. How they're going to handle guns on the street, how they're going to behave in certain situations, they better get these people well dressed. Can they be dressed for 200 dinars? I don't know. Maybe that's how the market decides. Will it be more than 200 dinars? Will there be 1,000 dinars or 5,000 dinars? It will be decided by the institutions that prescribe the price. Citizens will judge whether it was quality training or not. After all, I'm just saying, Saric did not invest in this country at the time of our government, capitalize on banks and buy companies. That's what he was doing at the time of your government. He then believed in the government and invested his money in the country's economy and drug money. At the time of our government, we brought him in and he's being tried today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27848	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27849	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, I also propose not to accept the amendment "is deleted" since citizens are already paying for the issue of ID documents, ID cards, driver's licenses, passports, etc., and it would be too much to pay for other persons' personal documents since it is not police and not public services. It is not right that, if the amendment is adopted, citizens pay for badges, labels, IDs for private security. I think the solution to the law better be paid by the most likely security companies, or the members who work there. If they didn't pay for it, someone had to pay for it, then the citizens would pay for it. I do not accept that the amendment is deleted and that, according to the old tradition of the party of the former regime, we transfer all costs to the citizens and incomes to those who exploit the citizens. I carefully considered the presentation of former regime's MPs, the current authorities in Vojvodina, since it was a top private security officer who, in his early young days, carried out security in JUL's Directorate, raised the ramp there and later grew into a NATO-size, in a NATO thunder of defence ministers who were violently chasing a pasture in the vicinity of the Holy Sava temple. I have carefully considered his presentation, and I disagree that he is not allowed to talk about Mr. Sarac. I think every MP has the right to talk about his close friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27850	But not when they're not mentioned in the amendments. About my friends, I can't control it. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27851	Thank you. Every MP is above all bound to tell the truth. I've never seen or hung out or seen a man in person you mention. I've never even worked security. Your colleague from SNS Mr. Budimirovic paid I think 300,000 dinars for that untruth he made.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27852	You received a replica to replicate the minister, not Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27853	No, because you don't react to untruths, and you just interrupted me when I wanted to talk about what the minister was talking about. So, just now, the minister said the debt was created because some tycoons stole banks and if we take it as a fact, we're wondering how it's possible that the director of one of these banks was an SNS MP, Mr. Tomic, whom you brought in? So, who worked with those tycoons and who was arrested for that, we know your SNS colleague just got arrested for that? Apropo Saric's investment in Vojvodina, that is, in Serbia, be honest and only tell us when the warrant for Saric is being called? So, when these things were exposed, when the investigation was carried out, that's when an APB was called, and that's... (Maria Obradovic, from the post: What is this amendment to Saric? )......................................................................................................... disabled. I answer, I replicate, there's no need to throw anyone away, really. Thank you for keeping them quiet. So, Mr. Minister, if you're talking about some things, don't be coy. Unfortunately, we don't have as much time here as you have, nor can we get used to your MP group, but let's be precise so we can say – then and then there was an APB, he was on the run until then, and then he turned himself in to the new authorities in which, as I said, there was more trust than in those who put out warrants chasing him. Tell the citizens of Serbia who is the SNS director that banks, how many tycoons have robbed in that bank and whether there is any MP from the DS or any opposition party that has been prosecuted on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27854	Thank you. Just the ministers for one second. It was a replica, so with Saric we are now ending with the minister's answer to your specific questions. So, I'm not turning the session into a session about some Charic, I'm not interested, just about the amendments. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Tell it to the minister, he started it. Don't yell at me, thousands of times I tell you, disaster. Don't yell at me, really. My parents were yelling when it was time. So we're done. Specific questions will be answered by the minister as well as by the end of the side issues that may be burdened by individuals in the O.R., but not by the public. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27855	Thank you. I can see that some MPs are terribly irritated by the story of Saric. Mr. Sutanovac and I started on his, let's say, initiative, he first started talking about it, I answer him because I don't mind it, and I think we're civilised talking about this, totally normal. Some people get upset, I don't know why, but it's their right, too. But what is a fact, which is that Darko Saric bought buildings, companies, property, land in Serbia during the government's 2008-2012 period. He hasn't bought anything since 2012, I guess that's the biggest form of trust. When you invest in a country at that time, I guess that's how you show the highest level of trust that you're sure that this property will not be taken from you, that you won't be prosecuted, that someone protects you, that's the highest level of trust in some government and some state. However, what is a fact, which is that when the ring was closed around it and it was clear to him that there was no longer any chance of hiding, when it was done by the BIA and the partner service in the world, when it was absolutely certain that Saric had no salvation, then he was detained and then appeared at the trial that is still going on in our country today. So that's the truth about Saric. As far as debts are concerned, of course the debts were made the most during that period, so the SNS MP did not run the Vojvodina Development Bank. We are neither in Vojvodina nor in its funds, nor were we today members of the board of directors. I will read to you next time who are all members, presidents of the legal committees who allowed this kind of robbery and the Vojvodina Development Bank and other funds in Vojvodina. As for DS officials, I don't want to talk about it because I don't share those people who are suspected of criminal acts whether they belong to a foreigner or not. That shows the example, we've brought in both SNS MPs and we've removed his immunity here. We deal with crime and corruption essentially and thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27856	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27857	Of course I want to talk about everything that's been repeated as a lie here again, which is that no new parafiscal charge is introduced. So it's introduced, it hasn't existed yet. You said there are two ways to introduce this new tax, to introduce a new number in the law, a tariff number in the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, or to change here by amending and supplementing this law. So you've introduced a new tax. Your economic policy, adopted here, is to reduce the number of taxis and parafiscal charges. It will never shrink if your argument - it is transferred to the burden of citizens. It doesn't shift to burden, it's a substitute thesis, to transfer to the burden of citizens. The companies involved in this business pay taxes and from that tax, I tell you, make up for the costs of making IDs. It's the only way to go down to the taxi number. You will never shrink if the attitude is – well, we introduce this tax so that not all citizens will pay. We're never going to start reducing taxi numbers. You're doing this directly against the economic policy you adopted here. I keep telling you that, and that's the only truth. So, this tax didn't exist until now, it didn't exist under this law, it didn't exist under the Republic Administrative Tax Act. That's the only truth. Mr. Minister, let me speak again of the truths and lies used here in the debate. The public debt in July 2012 was 48% of gross social product, not 63% of what you just said here. So you lied. Tell me, in what year from 2008 to 2012, was the budget deficit more than 4.5%? Tell me, what year is it? Because you said it was seven, eight percent. It was seven percent last year. By 2012, there was never more than 4.5%. That's the only truth, Mr. Minister. About what criminals did when they did, come here once last Thursday of the month to ask you a question and to talk about it, if you're already running away from that discussion. Because if no law had been passed on the confiscation of property acquired by organized crime...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27858	Ambassador, be kind about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27859	... Today Mr. Saric would have all his millions, property, buildings. Because we passed that law, there's no such thing as property. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Why did you turn off my microphone.) [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27860	Because you won't talk about the amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I talked about the amendment all the time. That's where you had your word. Here, if you want to spend more of those minutes and a half of what you have. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I won't.) Thank you. ) Thank you, too, for the understanding and MPs of your parliamentary group who have double criteria. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I Šarić did not mention until he mentioned him. What does that look like? I understand that everyone has a certain political tactics. My attempt is to conduct this session politely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I can tolerate yelling at both the minister and me and the MPs, but I can't tolerate the simplicity that occasionally comes out of comment when the talks are over and when you think no one hears you. I can't tolerate that. It's just not hard to be nice at least while we're in the O.R., and then who will. The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27861	I'll do it very briefly. It's an absolute lie, of course, everything that's been said. It's hard to deny it all. I only have two minutes in my replica. You can hardly deny all untrues, but I'll try those crucial ones. Of course, it's not about any parafiscal intrusion, since man would have to first know what the definition of "parafiscal intrusion" means to define it that way. But it doesn't matter. What's a fact is that we would have to define this -- compensate for the costs of making IDs as the cost of all citizens. You know, you can't say - I'm sorry, they pay you corporate taxes, so let's get out of it... Well, they pay citizens taxes, so from their taxes they get from what they don't pay. Well, should we give him another ink? I am not in favour of transferring this to Serbian citizens, as some MPs have said here. I'm absolutely against citizens paying for it. This will be paid by those who earn a profit from carrying out their work. It's the only thing that's appropriate and normal in a civilized world. As far as deficits and external debt are concerned, this is a very interesting topic and external debt comes from deficits the most. That deficit that was 2.5 billion euros a year, you know, for four years at ten billion, it was a terrible debt, but especially when you're not counting on the debts of public enterprises, the debts of local self-government, credit responsibilities and everything else, and then there are some kind of fake deficits, which have always been a few percent cheated on us, and were represented as the most wonderful and the best. However, as it was wonderful, fantastic and perfect in Serbia, they know those 400,000 workers who lost their jobs during that period, know those companies that went bankrupt, they know those people whose families were left without their foster parents, without their jobs and who were destroyed, Serbian banks that were destroyed by borrowing, that we only had to take a billion euros to pay back the debts due to the tycoon that destroyed the bank and nearly three billion euros for the current liquidity for salaries and pensions. There were so many responsibilities and so many people who cared about our country's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27862	Time. Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a replica. Closing Replical Circle National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am not a single replica.]] Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27863	Through this amendment, we wanted in Article 2 of this law to specify the highest level of fees for the issue of ID. We believe that this height, which has been mentioned here of 1,500 dinars, is suitable for the financial opportunities of private security employees, since their incomes are moving around the border of minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia. This amendment has been rejected. However, although it was rejected, I would again ask that the minister take into account both the difficult financial situation and the standard of those persons who are obliged to possess the legislation mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27864	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27865	The Serbian People's Party believes that the deadlines set like this are not realistic and that in this sense the law is inadmissible. For this reason, we have proposed to extend the deadline until 1 January 2017. We are pleased that the members of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have proposed to the MPs to accept an amendment allowing for more real implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27866	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27867	We spoke in parliament two days ago about the deadlines and Mr. Petrovic made very reasonable arguments to accept this amendment. I believe we'll do it in a faster time, but not to get into a situation that maybe in a month or two, and yet I say, it's not up to the MUP, it's up to the urgency of all the persons involved in training and this activity, but so that we as the National Assembly and we as the Government are in a position to extend the deadlines once again, I think this might be the best defined deadline in which we can do this job. In that sense, the Government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27868	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27869	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Article 3, you have now moved the deadline on 1 January 2017. That's a more reasonable deadline. A colleague, Petric, had the best intentions, as did you when you adopted this amendment. But we don't think it's reasonable enough to finish this job in a year and a half. What's the argument? In October or November 2013 you passed this law and then you got applause, simply, for the first time we dealt with this topic. However, it obliges you to finish the job. What was the job? By May 2014 you will bring in all sublaws. You first brought in October, and the last month ago and we left a deadline for the private sector to coordinate in a month, which wasn't realistic. Good, you've come immediately with changes and additions to this law, you've moved the deadline by eight months. I don't know how we could do a job that wasn't done in 18 months, now we moved to 2017. What's this about? In fact, we don't know exactly what the number of people who do this job is, from 25,000, some tell me up to 60,000. A large number of these people are actually working on black or in a gray zone. And I believe this is a new parafiscal imposition, that debate is over, but I believe that now an even larger number will be in the gray zone. Seventeen centres have been accredited to carry out training, 27 demands, but how many centres are training? That's the real question and the answer to that question I think is four. How with four centers to finish training from, say, 50,000 people in a year and a half. That is why we have proposed that the deadline for compliance with the provisions of this law should be until 1 January 2018. We believe that this deadline is more reasonable and we also believe that if you do not adopt the amendment, we will discuss this in 2017. So that you don't do that, let's think again about whether we can finish this job in a year and a half. We say no, and we have made, I mean, a very good argument so once again you have the right and opportunity to adopt these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27870	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27871	I think we've cleared this debate on parafiscal intrusions and that the citizens have realized that parafisclaves are gone. As far as the gray zone is concerned, I must remind you that it is precisely about the effects of the government's work on the new Labour Act and other measures of inspection work that have just reduced the number of people working on black. A part of them has moved to a real sector that really pays all its contributions neatly, as seen in the rise and in the PIO Fund. The PIO Fund sees an increase in the number of people who pay certain contributions, as well as the number of people who, according to the method calculated by the Republic Statistics Office, declare themselves unemployed. That number that was 26.5% today is less than 6.6%. That's a good thing for Serbia. Of course, they're not all newly employed, there's one part of the gray zone. There is concern with the government about this part of black employment, but we have to work together on that. That's something we're going to pay a lot of attention to in the coming months. You're right, for a small number of centers, six centres are working, but it's accredited to almost 40. It's a thing that the market will have to balance well and regulate. In those few months, we have brought in those most complex rules that include rules relating to the training of people, but these rules that follow are less complex, because they do not need to be aligned or to be delayed. These are rules on the use of means of coercion, uniforms, etc. We'll try to make that happen as soon as possible. I can't tell you any specific date, so I won't say more or less, but I hope by 2017 it'll be enough for us to finish the whole job. I hope I don't tell you something that will turn out to be incorrect, but I am convinced that with the serious work of the people in the MUP and those people who are training, we can do this really complicated job, because we are doing it for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27872	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27873	I would like to suggest that this amendment be not accepted. I believe that it is necessary to move forward as soon as possible with the full application of the Private Security Act and that the deadline until 1 January 2017, which the government has adopted, is quite sufficient to carry out all necessary coordinations. Also, I believe that this deadline is quite sufficient for the ministry to prepare itself for the full implementation of this law. The deadline proposed by this amendment is until 1 January 2018. I think it is too long, because, as I initially stated, it is necessary to move forward with the full application of this law as soon as possible, especially given that Serbia alone has had discontinuity in this area in the last 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27874	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27875	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, I expected you, Mr. President, to tell the Minister not to talk about a good amendment. This is about Article 3, which speaks of the deadline needed for legal persons and entrepreneurs to comply with the provisions of this law, and now, as proposed by the Government, this deadline is being moved from 1 January 2017 to 1 January 2017 by the adoption of the amendments to the deadline for the coordination of legal entities and entrepreneurs to comply with the provisions of this law. So it has nothing to do with the physical training she's supposed to be wearing. It's a Article 4 of this Act, not a Article 3. That's why it's unusual when we look at an explanation for the rejection of this amendment. There were three amendments to this article. One is to move the deadline on 1 January 2017 and that amendment has been accepted. The amendment to move on 1 January 2018 has been rejected by the argument that training should be completed as soon as possible. So you got the wrong explanation. This should be explained for Article 4, but not for Article 3. You have been our amendment extending the deadline, which the Government had previously proposed, for just three months, with the reason that this longer deadline was accepted until 1 January 2017, or another year and a half, and not just six months as you initially suggested when you sent this law to the Assembly. I would ask you, there were not many amendments to this law, only 10, to pay attention and not to prescribe, since the reasons for not accepting the amendments to Article 3 and Article 4 are exactly the same, from words to words are the same, and they are not dealing with the same things. So Article 3 is talking about a deadline for legal persons and entrepreneurs to coordinate their business, and Article 4 when training is to be completed, take a little care of that. I'm curious now, I asked on the board and I didn't get that answer, what were the criteria for accepting the amendment of my colleague, Petric? We have three amendments. When you proposed the law, you did some math there where you said it could all end in six months, about training. Now I'm curious – did you define yourself here for this deadline by selecting the affinities of those you like from those who have proposed the amendment or is there some serious, reasoned reason behind it? I'd like to hear those arguments. In what it says about refusing our amendment, I can't read anything. You wrote - the amendment is not accepted for the reason the amendment was accepted under the regular number 2 of this opinion. The only good thing to come through this debate that we had in the Assembly is that through the debate we managed to maybe fix the legal solution that came to parliament by emergency procedure, again, without any public debate, again, because if we had had a public debate on the amendments and additions of this law, then probably through that public debate we would have reached the best deadline. This gives me the impression that you liked the amendment that was accepted on Article 3 and that you didn't like the others, and that's why our amendments weren't accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27876	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27877	Just to clarify, the definitions by 1 January 2017. Since this is the part about bringing economic operators into line with this matter, it is obvious that they have until 1 January 2017. They can do it faster. During the debate two days ago, I listened to the arguments made by the MPs and this argument, which was made by Mr Petric, was the most real to me. We've done something based on our budgets, but since this is not up to the involvement of the MUP, it's up to the involvement of licensed entities and companies, it's not entirely up to us. We leave the market to define what it can, as quickly as it can, as quickly as it can, and as quickly as it will achieve it, it will be able to deal with this activity in accordance with the law. I believe that this deadline will be quite sufficient by 1 January 2017, and given that the law and sublegal acts do not prescribe that there must be a full and full number of those who are licensed to carry out this activity but only the minimum necessary for the regulation of sublegal acts, then this is sufficient time for that necessary minimum to be met. We can't predict when every single person who wants to deal with this activity will express their intention to license, or undergo training to perform detective activity. Simply, it's a matter of individual's will, a matter of the possibility of economic operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27878	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27879	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted to Article 4 is the consequence of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 3 and is talking about the same thing – that we are moving the deadline to comply with the provisions of this law on 1 January 2018. I agree with my colleague, Pesic, from the SNS, who said that we should go immediately to implement this law and work simply on it, but I believe that you referred that criticism to the minister, because the ministry did not actually do its job. Sublaws were due to be completed by May 2014. The first was delivered in October 2014, and the last one a month ago. They could have started to train people and to comply with the Private Security Act, but they didn't have a sublegal act and they didn't have the opportunity to start working. It's a good fact that it's not four, it's six centres that started training, but 17 got credentials. It simply speaks of a threefold process. That is precisely why and precisely because we do not know exactly how many people do this job, we suggest that this deadline be 2018, and that we simply give it to the private sector and the business people who are doing this job time to comply with this law, so that we do not have any changes and additions to this law again in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27880	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27881	I just want to say one thing that is materially true, which is that the deadlines are not over. It's June 5th. So we can theoretically bring it to June, since we've brought the two most complex regulations. The two most complex regulations are those concerning the granting of licences to economic operators for the performance of this activity and those concerning the training programme. They're brought in. Training started with licensed entities. So, as far as training goes, it's no problem. We can bring these two rules by June if we want to speed it up. But I'm telling you that we are just consulting the association of people who are doing this job and who are satisfied with the extension of the deadline, and not depending on the MUP whether the deadline will be extended, but from you, the MPs in this National Assembly can be determined that the deadline cannot be extended, so we are still within the legal deadlines and within those legal deadlines we have done the most complex part of the work. Whether these deadlines will be extended, first of all in favour of those people who perform this action, we will see in the days to vote. That's what the Ministry can't influence. What's good is that training has already begun, and I hope that those who perform this activity will also try to do so as soon as possible, because that's how we'll all get more orderly matter, but also have more employees who are licensed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27882	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27883	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I did not want to overly participate in the debate because on the first day in principle, and today on the Committee, we discussed these amendments on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. I think we've talked a lot, and there's no reason to further confuse the citizens and spread this debate, but I have to answer that, point out one phenomenon that I want to end up with, or at least point to it and follow it as it develops in the next period. I really feel that the applicants of the amendments want to drive the public crazy, to block this process of adopting a new law, because when they do a little bit of an analysis, when I say they're going crazy, it's slang, I want to say they're spinning or playing a little bit of change, because if you follow a logical line of amendments that are being submitted and the criticisms that are being heard in parliament, at one point it's heard that this law should not be amended, that we should meet these deadlines, that we're guilty of not meeting them, but we don't know what to do next. When we decide to change these laws, to follow reality, what life imposes on us and what the private sector requires, well, then we play with dates. So if we decided to change after all, then maybe now we'll give it four months, maybe we'll give it a year, maybe we'll give it two years. Depending on who submits the amendment, we have different arguments and we use them as needed. So there's no even logical line. If you're criticizing that no further changes should be made, then don't suggest any dates. If you're proposing, they should be minimal. But you're proposing that they be available as necessary, as appropriate. Do you want to create a specific effect or do you want to get as many media space as possible? I know that the second of television space on RTS is expensive and that every second you get for you is an extraordinary savings, for your client, because I know it's hard in the situation and the ratings you have, to raise money from your sympathisers. It's hard to invest in an investment that's not worth it. I totally understand you, but you're playing with the laws in this highest legislative home. Let's get serious, so at least when we're done considering the amendments, let's stick to some arguments, because I think the public expects us to be concrete, practical and thrifty in every sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27884	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27885	To take the opportunity to show the citizens who are following this discussion what spin is and what is true. The period under the current law, which the minister himself says has not been breached has been since the adoption of the law for six months, to adopt all sublegal documents, and within 18 months, in the case of this member, that natural persons must fulfil their obligations under this law. Where are we today? It's been 17 months since the law was passed. The Ministry hasn't brought all the sublegal documents yet. So, the Ministry broke the Minister's law, and that's the responsibility we talked about two days ago, which you don't understand. You broke the law because you first passed a sublegal document in October 2014, after 11 months, not six as much as it says in the law. The most important, as you say, is the sublegal document you brought in on March 28, 2015, so after 16 months. It's ten months more than the law of the deadline. The second you brought, the last one you brought was April 4, 2015, 16 and a half months. So 10 and a half months after your legal deadline. It is not a free term, so you say: We will not. It's a deadline your Ministry has to respect, and you didn't respect it. You broke the law by yourself, Mr. Minister, who voted for that law here 17 months ago, as president of parliament back then. You thought those deadlines were fulfilled, possibly. Then when this law comes, what are we doing as MPs? We look at what can be fixed and we see that you suggested that the deadline that was supposed to be 12 months, from making sublegal documents to harmonising with this law was 12 months, and you suggested in the original text that that deadline was another six months. We say, okay, we're going to move, we're going to propose that this deadline lasts another three months, to be as close to that first 12 months as it's supposed to be, in this case to train the natural persons, so 12 months have been left to finish this job. We thought it couldn't be done in six or seven, better done in another three months. It's very boring, using the criteria that you, when you first passed this law, as you say, after 20 years of nothing, adopted this. We used that criterion, only we shortened it for another month just out of the argument that we need to move on as soon as possible with the full application of this law that we're listening to today. Where are we inconsistencies and what's spin? Spin is when the minister says - we haven't broken the legal deadline. You broke through, left you with legal persons and individuals less than two months to finish training. That's impossible. You haven't adopted all the rules, and you should have adopted them within six months. You broke the law, it's the facts and the truth. In the end, what are we going to have if a law is passed with a change proposed by counterpart Petrovic? This is very interesting, to read the whole article, which reads: “Natural persons who, at the time of entry into force of this law, are employed by legal persons who carry out private security tasks for an uninterrupted period of at least five years can continue to work, and the requirement for minimum vocational education must be fulfilled within three years of the entry into force of this law.” The three-year deadline will be 5 December 2016, which is three years from the date of entry into force of 5 December 2016. The following point is added: "The remaining conditions prescribed by this law by the person who, on the day of entry into force of this law, are being carried out in security matters within the time limit" and it was "within 18 months", and will now stand – by 1 January 2017. So, the first position will be, or entry into force, the alignment will be on December 5, 2016, and the second position will talk about January 1, 2017, means 25 days of difference, so the legislative proposal will appear to be with these amendments and additions. If you were in elementary school, in the first four classes, if you were writing such a composition in Serbian, you'd get a two in law school, I believe, here's a colleague, Martinovic, that's how you write laws to get something into effect within three years, and some three years and 25 days, someone would tell you – don't play, but put it within three years. This change was supposed to be consistent with attitude 1 and said – within three years. Then it would make legal sense and act like the law neatly, not like this, like a cabbage. We're changing and supplementing how we like it. Then who's going to get on that hill of deadlines, a cab of new ones that are being introduced and things like that? It's bad to write laws like this, and that's why we can't vote for these changes and supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27886	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of deadlines, Mr. Djurisic, it would be politically correct to remember something that was a few years ago. With all due respect to the importance of this matter that's regulated by the Private Security Act, there are some areas of social life that are still a little more important, you know, hopefully with me. Why am I saying this? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in November 2006, the same day the Constitution was adopted, and the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution was passed. By way of a state of Serbia and citizens of Serbia, very unfortunate political circumstances, it was practically DS that depended most on the implementation of the Constitutional Law. In Article 5. The constitutional law states: "The newly elected composition of the National Assembly will in the course of the first session after the government's election bring the laws governing the citizens' protection and the exercise of citizens' rights to information and select the citizens' protectors, the authority responsible for monitoring and exercising citizens' rights to information, the governors of the NBS and the DRI authorities. During the second session following the government's election, the National Assembly will comply with the Constitution of laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to the courts and public prosecutors, namely: laws governing the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts, the election and termination of the functions of the President of the Judges and Judges, the High Council of the judiciary, the organisation and jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, the selection and termination of the office of the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors and the state chief prosecutors." You, Mr. Djurisic, were in power in 2007, right? The Democratic Party had most ministers in the famous government of Vojislav Kostunica, and the president of the National Assembly who was supposed to take care of the compliance with the constitutional law deadlines was yours, I guess former party counterpart Oliver Dulic. Whether the deadlines prescribed in Article 5 are respected Constitutional law? No, they're not. Is the Constitution during the second session after the government's election, and the government was elected in May 2007, 20 minutes before midnight, before the end of the 90-day constitutional term by Tomislav Nikolic, who went out for the National Assembly's pay phone, there to King Milan and said – we interrupt the debate, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica agreed, we will not spoil the agreement, we think it will be a bad government, but in order to spare Serbia the new elections, if you have agreed, let it be fortunate for you, and that your government is formed, did you agree in the course of the second session after the government's election with the Constitution of the laws that I have read? You're not. Do you bear any responsibility, you, your party, former party, Boris Tadic? I see you have sued Zoran Babic, you and Boris Tadic, for violation of honor and reputation. You know, when someone has the honor and reputation, I'm asking you now -- do you think you're an honorable and moral man, if you were the bearer of a government that didn't meet, not what it says in the Private Security Act, that the minister should bring some sublaws, but that the National Assembly must pass laws, did you respect deadlines? You're not. With what right do you now teach the Minister of the Interior that he allegedly did not bring in some sublaws in time? He didn't pass the sublaws, you didn't pass the laws and you didn't comply with the laws and the legal system with the Constitution. Not to mention that this was a matter that was completely legally unregulated. This is the first law in Serbia's modern political history that introduces private security agencies into the legal system and the legal system only now recognises them as legal entities. We all know that private security agencies have existed practically since the early '90s, but they've worked out wild. At the end of 2013, the Private Security Act was passed and, as Minister Stefanovic told you nicely, most of the sublegal acts were brought in, some other acts should be brought in. We are now extending the deadline, not because of the Ministry of the Interior, but because of individuals dealing with private security matters and entrepreneurs dealing with private security matters, so that they can comply with their normative acts, their work with the provisions of the laws and regulations. But it's not clear to me that you here, as the moral paradigm of this House, are now taking lessons in the fact that the Home Secretary didn't bring sublaws in time, and you didn't bring a whole series of laws in time. Among other things, you were obliged to pass laws governing the organisation of courts. Do you remember when you did it? You did it in December 2008, and it says here during the second session, after the government's election. Well, you've broken the deadline in over a year. Did you bear any responsibility for that? You're not. Did you need to tell Oliver Dulic - Mr. Dulic, we are under constitutional law to pass the laws we must comply with the Constitution? You're not. Do I have to remind you, Mr. Djurisic, how many times has the National Assembly extended the deadline for issuing new driver's licenses, new traffic permits, new passports, all possible personal documents? There's no session where we haven't extended any deadlines. Not to talk about various affairs where passports will be printed, where new ID cards will be printed, who will take some commissions, who is in charge, who is in charge, who is in the ground with whom, etc. I don't want to talk about it at all. But how many times have you voted to extend the different deadlines? And then it was okay. It was democratic back then. Now that we're extending the deadlines, not for the minister's sake, but for the people whose bread this is, who are doing this job, it's suddenly that problem. I really don't see what the problem is here, which is that we're going to allow people who deal with private security matters to comply with the provisions of the law and the regulations of the sublegal law, which is the most important sublegal regulations that govern this matter. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote for the amendment. We will provide support for the Minister of the Interior to settle this matter normally until the end. What went after the Serbian Progressive Party and Interior Minister since the end of 2013, so now by May 2015, this has not been followed by the Democratic Party since 2000 and here. You're the last one to teach us how to respect the deadlines and how to normly arrange an area of social life.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27888	I hope this is a replica now, finally? Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, I'm glad you used your favorite again, and it seems to me the only argument of the ruling majority when we say that you are not doing something that is in accordance with the law, with democratic principles. You say-- you did the same thing. That's what we've been listening to for a year. You asked - what did we pay, what was the price? The price is we lost the election. Mr. Martinovic, you criticized us when we did it and we lost the election. I'm glad you're doing the same, because that means you'll lose the election. You're welcome to work. Keep doing so, because the more you do so, the sooner that defeat will happen. It is our obligation here to indicate when you do what is not by law, by democratic practice. So you're here telling me now that I'm responsible for not passing the laws. I was part of most of the time you were talking about. I was one of the 128 MPs of the majority or one of 64 MPs of the largest party then. It's been a long time since I've been able to influence all these things you're talking about. I'm talking about a job that the minister, or the Ministry, and for his work the minister in charge, was supposed to do within six months, which he himself did. Under circumstances, when the law was passed, the minister was the president of the assembly. I believe, Minister, that you voted for this law. The law said, within six months, all sublaws will be passed. Then you come in a few months later...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27889	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27890	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27891	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27892	Modesty is a beautiful virtue, but, Mr. Djurishic, I remember that time. You weren't one of the 64 DS MPs, you were the chairman of the DS Executive Board. You were in charge of Oliver Dulic and Nadia Kolundzhija and many others who were then members of the DS parliamentary group. Well, how come you didn't think to tell your colleague Oliver Dulic - Mr. Dulic - we have an obligation to comply with the laws of the Constitution? You didn't do it. It's not true that sublegal regulations have not been passed. The most important sublegal regulations have been passed and what the interior minister says is absolutely correct. We could not extend any deadlines. On June 5th, whoever coordinated his business, who completed his training, can work, and who isn't, what do we do to him, we shut down his company. We didn't want to do that. Now that I'm listening to your discussion, I don't see what's the real problem here. The main problem is that the deadline is being extended, and that's what I was talking about in the principle debate. Article 2 is talking about a taxi and you're wrong about it. The budget system law allows the minister to determine the amount of tax. Article 3, Article 4, speaks of the deadlines within which natural persons and entrepreneurs should comply with their organisation and their work with the provisions of the Private Security Act. I don't see what the problem is. The minister could not extend any of these deadlines and that all those companies that, as you say, pay taxes, hire our citizens, etc., all this is nice, but most of these companies would be in trouble. So these people don't get into trouble...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27893	Time, you've been two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27894	... We extend that deadline and we see absolutely nothing controversial or any problem in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27895	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Please, let's finish our lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27896	I just want to answer. I'm talking about responsibility, responsibility for why a law has been broken that says that within six months, a sublegal act should be passed. The law is written by me rightly. A six-month deadline for a sublegal act, and then another year to coordinate the business of legal persons with this law and complete the training. You can't say right now – here's our goodwill, we've broken the deadline in 16 months, instead of six, it took us 16 to bring in a sublegal act and now we're good, because instead of leaving legal and physical persons to dress in two months, which is impossible, we're moving the deadline. I mean, it's a good thing it's done, but it's a matter of responsibility why it took the Ministry not six months to bring all of it, but almost a year to bring the first one, and that most important one you're talking about bringing in 16 months later. I'm trying to find out. If you put, please, at the beginning of my position in the party until 2012, does this mean that I now criticise the work of parliament and the ruling majority should be directed to Mr Radomir Nikolic? Can he, Madam President, order anything from you? Can he tell you – put this law on, you didn't put this on or what? Is that how you guys work?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27897	If he was an MP, he could tell me something.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27898	Is the chairman of your party's executive board giving you any orders here? Is that how it works today? So should I be the one to make all the criticisms to him, not to delude myself with you? So I wasn't the one who could have affected all that stuff. Please talk about what I did myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27899	Thank you. We're done with the replica. It's been a while. It's past your time, so we won't talk about someone who's not an MP, that he's an MP, that he can order the President of Parliament whatever he wants. MPs can suggest, suggest, whatever they want. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27900	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, the amendment is unacceptable. I'm listening here to the story of some deadlines, or we're listening to the opposition's story about how some deadlines have been broken, that the law has been broken, even here we're looking for some responsibility for breaking that law. I don't agree with that at all, first of all, because to prepare and bring together such a complex legal proposal that defines such a complex matter as private security takes time. It takes time for such a legal proposal to be brought into line with everyone and to get such a good legal proposal as we have now. But let's see who's telling us about the deadlines today. As counterpart Martinovic said, the opposition has repeatedly broken the deadlines for law-making while it was in power, but not only that, but they did not have the courage to pass any laws at all, such as that. The privatisation law, which brought SNS with its coalition partners, because it didn't suit them. Most likely, it did not suit them because it would prevent all those robbery privatisations that occurred at the time and many other laws that damaged Serbian citizens. That's why the SNS rating goes higher, and the opposition goes lower, and that's why they'll soon go into oblivion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27901	PUPS MPs suggest and ask to talk about amendments. I beg you on their behalf, and they are MPs, to return to the subject of the amendment. I think we've talked a lot about timeouts and cross-referenced arguments. Let's go back to the specific amendment. Whether from 1 April 2016 to 1 January 2016, this is our topic now, if we are going to deal with the topic. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I see that there is also Vice President Arsic, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic and the Honored Guests and Guests, yesterday we had an exhaustive debate here, gentlemen, where we discussed with Minister Selakovic a very important bill proposal, and I would like here today two remarks on this amendment by Mr Đurisic to say one question today to Mr Stefanovic. I asked one question two days ago, the minister answered, and for today I have prepared another. But previous remarks, gentlemen. Here is one MP, here is Mr. Martinovic, who, the lawyer, has referred the question, the honourable president, about the debate on this amendment, the other MP, Mr. Djurisic, which is what you are right to criticise the work of the government, ladies and gentlemen? It is as if Mr Martinovic asked another MP - what right do you work with Mr Đurisic under the Constitution, president of the National Assembly? Because in the Constitution, and this is the amendment, the esteemed president, writes finely, here in Article 99, as part of his election rights, the National Assembly elects the Government, oversees its work, and we have additional members on the basis of which we can claim here that we have the right, Mrs Gojkovic, whenever we want to control the government's work, and in today's particular case, to control the work of Interior Minister Mr Stefanovic. I believe that Mr. Martinovic made one mistake and that it would be appropriate for Mr. Martinovic to now, when he gets, for example. The right to a replica, if you allow him, first of all, says: "Mr. National Messenger Pavicevic is right, I have sinned." The second note, gentlemen, I think that Mr. Djurisic is right about his amendment and about the other thing, which is – Mr. Djurisic has once again asked responsibility here because something that is said to be done has not been done. I understood that Minister Stefanovic accepted here two days ago, and here, Minister Stefanovic would say if it wasn't true, that something was really not done, and then I suggested to Minister Stefanovic that he could tell us here, and today two things could say, either one or the other, or under a) or under b). (a) or he can tell us – well, it was wrong, but okay, we've seen a mistake, and now we're proposing to fix it. Or another thing, Mr. Stefanovic says – we were not effective enough and now we accept another deadline for which we have assessed that it is reasonable. Dear gentlemen, I think it's appropriate for our dialogue. Honorable President, when I make a mistake in a word or in one letter in the amendment and you intervene and you say, "Here, and you've made a mistake, I accept, I've made a mistake, I haven't put a stop to it, I haven't put an end to it." Well, it's no problem, I think, for anyone here to say it, so I don't think it should be for Minister Stefanovic either, just sent by other MPs to defend him for it, instead of saying it themselves -- yes, Minister Stefanovic, you should answer to the National Assembly for your actions. These were two remarks, respected gentlemen, Minister Stefanovic and one part of MP Aleksandr Martinovic. I also have one question. Since this law also concerns some categories that associate us with force, violence, prevention of violence, etc., all I have to do is ask Minister Stefanovic. It really happened yesterday, I think, something inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27903	Ambassador, is this about the amendment or not, about the deadlines?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27904	Yes, I did, of course. Here, I want to ask for a deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27905	Okay. I know there are skilled speakers, so they connect everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27906	Well, I'm not one of the most skilled, respected presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27907	But we're not gonna talk about the impact of the creepy on this law. So, no questions asked today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27908	Let me ask you something. How come I don't have the right to ask the minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27909	Just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27910	About the amendment. Is there a deadline within which we will find out who physically attacked the assistant minister of Education Shuvakov? Look out, gentlemen, these are physical attacks on the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27911	Thank you. It has nothing to do with private security.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27912	Assistant ministers, college deans. Please, Minister, answer. Minister Stefanovic to respond. I hope he answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27913	If he wants to, because this isn't a topic. Sit down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27914	It is a theme, Mrs. Gojkovic. How come it's not the topic of attack on the assistant minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27915	No, this is not a topic at all. Just read me the name of the law, please. You're an MP who's trying to at least read the name of the law. Thank you. He'll answer you. Please, very briefly. You're way out of line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27916	Will the minister answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27917	They'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27918	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27919	They'll answer. I'm asking him to answer you, so he doesn't turn out not to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27920	Mr. Pavicevic also mentioned Mr. Selakovic, something wrong with justice, I don't know why. As far as these two questions are concerned, let me tell you, unlike some of the previous times, when the murders were not solved, so here, the Ministry of the Interior has also solved the killings of Ranko Panic and Slavko Curuvija. So, when the murders weren't solved, when they stayed in the camp for years and when it or no one was interested or it wasn't enough to commit ourselves, we tried to find out and arrest those who beat up the dean. These people are in custody and a police investigation has been found that they are proven, or it will be in court confirmed, I hope, those people will answer for it. Of course we condemn and are not allowed to attack any Serbian citizen, equally whether he is the performer of any public function or not, we are equally trying to expose all this, we are working hard and intensely here the other day since it happened. I can't give you deadlines, because that would be ungrateful because it depends on people who operate on it on the ground. But, of course, we're gonna do our best and, I say, I'm glad that we have, I believe, enough apparatus to expose it. Of course, when we have something we can say about the results of the investigation, we'll go public with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27921	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27922	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to deadlines, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I tried to find the planning documents from the 2009 Food Safety Act. These planning documents were supposed to be done in 2009, we still can't find them, I don't even believe they were done by 2012. So much for the up-to-date and party of the former regime and not just them, not just the MPs, but their governments that formed their majority. So those who have not brought in binding documents in three or more years, plan documents on food safety covering a monitoring programme, which monitors food safety in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the system. It is one of the most important laws if they make a threat to human health, not only to human health, but also to animal health, because monitoring is also being conducted on animal food, through which human health can be endangered. Those who failed to comply with such deadlines under such a sensitive law today are rebelling against the deadlines that are in the area that are regulated by private security, meaning some new law that they have not even thought to pass. I believe that the deadlines are quite sufficient for the Andrevl facility to be an object that will be specially secured from Article 1. So, that the facility is necessarily provided with the facility and that the remaining representatives of the party of the former regime are counting on it, I suppose, and that the time for training will be quite enough for the Jesic brothers to dress in particular Vladimir Jesic in fighting and handling cold and firearms, and that they will have the proper legitimacy, and be licensed, and therefore I think that the party of the former regime with the right insists on some of its deadlines, and they are adapting their deadlines to their members, and I believe that they have a very good experience at this time with the Andrevol account carried out by members of their party security, led by unlicensed, not trained Vladimir Jesic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27923	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic on the amendment. No, the replica because other than the name and last name of the other was gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27924	A man told me I said something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27925	No, he didn't say that, he commented. Here you are, by amendment you have more time. If you only want two minutes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pavicevic, there's a book called Sigmund Freud that deals with the interpretation of the speech's slips, and he says, when a man makes slips in his speech, he probably has something in his subconscious. You are to mention the name of Nikola Selakovic two or three times, God forbid I'm wrong, but you may have some problems with the law and the judiciary. You were wrong when you said - that I told Mr. Djurisic that he had no right to criticise the government. You have, thank God, the right to criticise the government for the will and to say that we are burning the bodies of the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant, and that the government is guilty of floods, and that they are guilty of this, and that we are guilty of what, you have every right, the media is at your disposal. So you have every right to criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia. But I did not say that Mr. Djurisic did not have the right to criticise the government, I told him that I had no moral right to teach anyone any lessons about the respect of deadlines when he and his party did not respect the deadlines concerning the adoption of laws that must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Pavicevic, since you're not a lawyer and you're talking about government control. There are two instruments under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia at your disposal to control the government's work in the most efficient way possible. This is the interpretation and submission of the motion for a vote of no confidence to the government. You need 50 signatures for your interpretation to vote on mistrust with the government of 60 signatures. Since you're so strong, the powerful muster the signatures and replace the government. That's your best shot.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27927	Marko Djurisic. By amendment? Ambassador Djurishic, you want to talk about the amendment? About the deadlines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27928	Thank you, esteemed chairman. About the deadlines because the deadlines prescribed by the law that we are changing today are not respected. So, I repeat the deadline that most of the MPs sitting here adopted by voting for this law when it was adopted on 26 November 2013, and together with them was today's minister, then the president of the assembly voted - six months for the adoption of sublegal acts, six months. That's the deadline you've set, the ruling majority. The same one that is today, I mean, the same party, maybe they're not all the same people. I'm talking about why it's not respected. If that deadline had been respected, this law wouldn't have changed in this part. The amendments and additions to Articles 3 and 4 of this Act are being discussed today because someone has not finished the job. In this particular case, the Ministry. The minister is responsible for the ministry's work. And I'm talking about the minister's responsibility. And I have the right as a MP to speak of responsibility. And, I tell you, moral responsibility in politics is paid in elections. So, the fact that you're here, that I'm being respected for something from the last time, we've paid for it in the election, that's why we lost the election. And, you guys, that's my point, losing those choices when you do it like this. It's my duty as an opposition MP to talk about it. Citizens, citizens need to know who's responsible for what's happening to them in the country. You say Boris Tadic is responsible... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27929	Mr. Pavicevic, you're on, and you're off. I don't know how.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27930	So I got the line. (Marco Djurisic, places: Please turn on my microphone.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27931	He somehow shut you down with some kind of magic and turned himself on. Please, MP, just sit down and let Giurisic finish. Please let him go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27932	Thank you, Mr. President. You and I both know that we don't control these microphones, I can't turn it on and I can't turn it on alone. So it's my duty to talk about political responsibility. I don't like the moral responsibility of talking in parliament. Moral responsibility is not measured here. There are other places to do this, but let's talk about morals. What we are saying is, where the responsibility of ministers is not only Minister Stefanovic, but also many other ministers and Gasic, and Verbic, and Selakovic, and the very prime minister who stood before all of them, for all the bad things that happen in society. It's the form of our political struggle here in parliament. We don't water the chairman, we don't throw shoes, we don't come here in shirts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27933	I beg you, MP, on the amendment. Please, the MPs are protesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27934	You're protesting not MPs. I don't see the MPs protesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27935	Well, MPs are stronger than me, I'm just running a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27936	The MPs listen to what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27937	No, they don't listen, they protest. You don't turn around, you don't look around. So, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27938	It's mine to talk about, not to take care of order in the O.R., that's what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27939	Well, it's not the room, it's the general disapproval that comes across your manners to talk about today whatever you want. A little collegiation, so you're not alone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27940	I'm talking about what's... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27941	This is not "one man show" so that you do not care how colleagues react from all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27942	The most important thing in politics, which is responsibility, and I'm talking about who's responsible for breaking the deadline. The deadline has been broken because most importantly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27943	Not yet, but if you continue this way, you will push parliament into breach of deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27944	No, it's not my intention, nor can I, I don't have the opportunity to postpone the vote here for a month, we'll vote in a few minutes and I don't see a reason to be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27945	Well, you're nervous because you're not going to suggest more than other MPs and go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27946	So let me talk to you in the time I have in my office to talk about the subject, and that's who's responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27947	It's about details now. Ambassador, if you keep warning me about what is said and what is not spoken of, I will now tell you what is spoken of – about the amendments, and do not speak of what you want. It is my right to tell you to return to the amendment and insist on it. I'm trying without warning, but you're using it and you want to create a very unconstructive atmosphere here and force me to apply what I don't like to do. Respect this House and respect here, how many 80-90 MPs there are and behave properly. So, on whether to be April 1st, you insist on being April 1st, and the minister wants a shorter deadline. You're spreading the subject all the time and you're always saying that you're right and that democracy here is compromised, because you can't talk about whatever you want when it comes to details. I'll send you on a study trip, have all the parliaments of Europe and the world tour and come back and tell me I'm right. Please, sit down because you don't want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27948	I'm telling you, but I'm waiting for you to stop talking so I can tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27949	I can't stop because I have to take care of the order in the O.R., and you're distracting him. Simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27950	You talk all the time, wasting my time to argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27951	No, no, you've wasted your time, you don't want to talk about the subject and please sit down or keep standing, but without the right to speak. I don't care. So it's not defined if you're going to sit. Don't argue. I don't allow a debate with the president. Just so I'm clear, you're a strange MP, you don't let any sessions take place as planned by the Rules of Procedure, and it's not easy for me. Trust me. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry of the Interior, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I think it would be very convenient here today for Mr Martinovic to tell us, who authorized him to judge any MP's moral responsibility, gentlemen? Well, the National Assembly, president of the National Assembly, is a political institution, and as Mr. Djurisic here said, we can judge political responsibility here. I ask: Who has given this authority? That license to Mr. Martinovic, that he judges here on moral qualifications...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27953	MP, you didn't get the right to a replica. You asked me to use your time on the amendment. Do you want to or not want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27954	I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27955	I will not give Martinovic a replica because you artificially mentioning the name and last name are calling here 249 MPs. There won't be any replicas. Don't bother at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27956	Just one sentence. In this sentence, I conclude, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Martinovic, was shy but made it clear that he was wrong when he criticised Mr. Djurisic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27957	I thank you, and you don't want to respect. I'm sorry, Minister, I have a problem with all the MPs in the O.R. You understand me. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27958	I understand. Thank you, Mr. President. What I'm trying to say is that we found one thing irrefutable, which is that everyone thinks that responsibility for everything that is done and in passing and not passing the law is determined by the elections and that the citizens determine, the debate went so, that the people are the Supreme Court, which can still be said to be, I don't think anyone will deny it. I think that one day when we have elections in Vojvodina, I hope that we will have them someday, I hope that there will be them sometime, but on that day when people in these elections will say what they think about all this and what they think about responsibility and those who have exercised power and those who were opposition that year, and those who exercise power there today and those who are opposition today, but not just there. We had a recent election in Mionica. Mininica was a good example of what citizens think about the government in Mionica, but what they think about the work of the Republic government. In these elections, which resulted in 70% of the people, and it is about deadlines and responsibility for the deadlines, in these elections, the SNS gets 60% of the votes, so the citizens showed that the responsibility we are talking about today, because we are talking about the responsibility for the deadlines being passed and the deadlines being passed, those citizens said that they believe that the government's policy was correct, its prime minister and its citizens' policy as the Supreme Judge, showed that not only 50%, but 60% of the votes to 70% of the participants, shows that this government is getting more support every day, and I am confident that it will be on the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27959	Thank you. Ambassador Borislav Stefanovic asks why the minister spoke of responsibility? Because the MPs only talked about responsibility. I can't bring a patch here, so let me say, you can, you can't talk about responsibility. All of this has nothing to do with the amendments this morning, frankly. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27960	I'm asked by some MPs who authorized me to say something? I was empowered by the people, Mr. Pavicevic, because the election list I was on won almost half the vote, and you were on a list that barely crossed the censorship. I understand your need and you talk about it all the time so you can judge someone. We saw what that trial looked like in 2000, when you burned down the Assembly, TV, when you beat people in the streets, you were breaking in with automatic rifles at the National Bank, at Customs Administration. We've seen it all. That kind of broken barrels we've seen. Now I assume you're talking about some kind of political court. I am telling you, Mr Pavicevic, there is not much philosophy here, take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and read what instruments are, how to judge the Government, collect either 50 signatures for interpretation or 60 signatures for no confidence in the Government, provide the necessary majority in the National Assembly and judge Stefanovic, Vukic, Selakovic, who is always in your head, to please you, but you do not have the majority. It's not SNS' fault. The people punished you. Your people won't. You have no problem with me, neither with Babic, nor with Stefanovic, nor with Maja Gojkovic, the people will not. Why won't the people want you? Put a little finger on your forehead and think about it. You're a smart man.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27961	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected ministers Stefanovic and respected guests and guests from the MUP, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, Mrs Gojkovic, said just now that I asked who authorised him to say something? I did not refer this question to Mr. Martinovic, Mrs. Gojkovic, but I asked Mr. Martinovic – who empowered him to declare here unrealistic qualifications and to speak of moral responsibility, because our National Assembly, respected gentlemen, is not just any, but a central political institution, and you are Mrs. Gojkovic, the president of that central political institution in our constitutional system. It is very important that we speak precisely about both the subject and that when we refer to what the other MP, Mrs Gojkovic, said, we are telling the truth. As for October 5th, gentlemen, I took part. October 5th is one of the brightest dates in Serbia's modern history, gentlemen. There was a turn, there was a change, an important turning point. The third thing, Mrs Gojkovic, to us MPs, gentlemen of the people, is available to one government control mechanism that implies that ministers, including Minister Stefanovic, and Prime Minister, come here on the last Thursday of the month to answer the questions of MPs. They didn't come last Thursday either, so we had to... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27963	Thank you. You've got the answer to your question. Ugly, they all started speaking out loud. Minister Stefanovic asked me to move on to the next amendment. There's a really urgent meeting, so we can respect the minister that he's done his part of the job, because we've been in replicas for a long time and I'm simply asking you to understand. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27964	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Mr. Minister, I want to thank you for accepting this amendment. The essence of our amendment was that the last member of this law to regulate the entry into force of the law would agree with the Constitution. The Constitution of Article 196 provides that the law and other general acts enter into force as early as the eighth day since the day of publication, and that they may enter into force before, only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. We have estimated that there are no such reasons, although in the original text of the Law sent by your ministry, it has been written that there are such reasons, among other things, because the law, or some solutions from the applicable law, enter into force on May 5th, so you yourself realized that it was a mistake, that's fine. I suppose because you realized that a mistake was made, that the deadline was not May 5th but June 5th, that you accepted this amendment and that this law is in force as prescribed by the Constitution. I'd just like to ask you, Mr. Minister. You, as a member of the government, are voting in the government for every legislative proposal that comes to us in parliament, which the government proposes. Unfortunately, many of the legal proposals you send violate this member of the Constitution and ask us, as you have, when you adopted the bill in the Government, set a deadline from the next day of publication in the "Official Messenger", or another shorter deadline, contrary to the Constitution. I'm asking you to stand up for the government's sessions so we don't violate the Constitution. He prescribed the eight-day deadline, as once the minister of justice explained, because it is important that all entities legal and natural persons to whom the law applies, have some time to get to know the new provisions of the law so that they can act in accordance with it. When we pass laws that come into force immediately, like yesterday, the law we passed, they don't have a legal face and citizens get to know each other in time, and they can come into a situation to break the law out of simple ignorance. They can't get to look at new legal solutions and get their business or behavior in line with it. So I'm asking you ministers this time to advocate when you're voting on the government's draft laws that you're sending us here, always look at that deadline and see if it's in accordance with the Constitution, or if it's shorter than these eight days if there really are legitimate reasons. We have found here that because of one mistake, this shorter deadline was proposed than that set in the Constitution, so after we have established that error, we have corrected and the law will enter into force on the eighth day following the publication, but in some other cases the government and the ministers who came here to explain the law insisted on a shorter than eight days, although they had no explanation valid, which is why it is possible to violate this constitutional norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27965	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27966	I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate on this law and I think that this time, after many years, we are sorting this legal matter in one real way. Whether this was supposed to be faster, probably is, but when you're doing something for the first time in 20 years, then you can, of course, face both the possibilities and the inability of the provisional system to wash out everything the laws predict. We need to be faster and more efficient, of course, working on it. As for the violation of the Constitution, there is, of course, no speech on the violation of the Constitution because the Constitution itself predicted that the National Assembly could determine the possibility that laws and other regulations would come into effect shorter than those prescribed in those acts. If the National Assembly decides to do so in particular and, of course, the Government and the Ministry do not decide, we only suggest that, every time the National Assembly rejects or respects it, it depends on the MPs of the National Assembly, and of course there are sometimes legitimate reasons to do so, primarily because of the possibility of not entering retroactiveness, or that we do not apply the laws within the time when they are scheduled. So, or let's say by failing to adopt them, we continue to have some inconspicuous legal consequences or economic consequences for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Anyway. I want to thank you for the co-operation we had and in the day of discussion in principle and today when we have considered all these amendments, the government has accepted three out of nine amendments, one third of the amendments have been accepted and I think we have further improved this law, and I hope by 2017 we will be able to monitor the development of this economic system, since the private security system is very important for our country and all together important with the security system. As I have spoken with some MPs in this room and our new national internal security strategy, it will be included in its part, and I think then we will have one whole material that will arrange this matter in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27967	Thank you, Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27968	I welcome Mr. Minister that this amendment has been accepted to begin the application of this law on the eighth day since the day of its publication. However, what I would like to point out and call and point to the anomaly and something the amendment promoter had the opportunity to respect the Constitution from cover to cover. I would like the amendment promoter to point out to the president of his party, in some period until 2012 and to the President of the State, Boris Tadic, to respect the Constitution, to respect Article 115. The constitution of Serbia that defines the incompatibility of functions and says – the President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity. Then why didn't he insist on respecting the constitution? Why did we then have a president of the state who was president of the square members of his party, and the rest were just an ordinary president, and the members of the SNS were not at all presidents, because this is how he treated us? Why didn't they ask that the Constitution be respected from member to member, from cover to cover? No, at that time, for Boris Tadic, for the DS or the aggregate state of the DS Constitution, there was one text that could be corrected, which could have different opinions and could have been consumed as Boris Tadic came to mind. In any case, for years in both mandates, he violated the constitution, violated at least one member, and that was article 115 because he was both party president and president of the state. Therefore, those who insist on respecting the Constitution must first start from their own backyard, first have to start from their mistakes, at least admit them, at least apologize to people in Serbia for violating the Constitution, because they have violated the laws, and then seek respect or respect for other acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27969	The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27970	I hope this is a straight line to the replica now. Dear President, did Mr Tadic violate the Constitution, Article 115, and you know in the end that only the Constitutional Court can say. The Constitutional Court didn't say he was a broken member of 115, and until that happens, you and I can politically discuss what was done right or wrong in the past tense. I, Mr. Babic, have no problem admitting mistakes, apologizing to the citizens of Serbia for all these mistakes and accepting responsibility for all this. What I see as a problem today is that you are not ready to admit your mistakes. It's a mistake to cut pensions to the pensioners. It's a mistake to cut employees' salaries. It is a mistake to bring down Serbia's economy. It is a mistake to attack independent institutions and it is a mistake to violate the Constitution when the executive government thinks everything is in the Republic of Serbia, that it is also legislative, that it is judicial, that it can also control independent institutions established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's the present, and I believe in the future. I believe the future will appreciate our work here today. I'm not afraid of that future, and I believe that you're afraid, and of that fear, whenever you look forward, you look at the mirror and start talking about something back and you find an excuse. There's no excuse in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27971	Time. Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic answered the question. On what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica, Democratic Party. I know which party you are, but what is the basis? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: "Smalled DS"? The word is Borislav Stefanovic, so Zoran Babic. He says you mentioned him to DS. I don't know anymore, I apologize, you understand me. Boris Tadic was mentioned specifically, so especially DS, and now I have to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27972	Yes, it is. That's where Mr. Babic forgot a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27973	It wasn't his intention to get both of you up, but if you'd like.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27974	No, I mean, I answer because... Here, 28 seconds, please count me in. So, I only appear because DS is mentioned in the peri-curricular sense, its aggregate state. You know, it's been repeated more than once today, so now Mr. Babic has said. I wouldn't normally answer, and I don't see what the need is right now in the end that Mr. Babic is causing these replicas, but the aggregate states exist, let's say, he said it correctly, fluent, solid, gassy, there's plasma, as well, which you didn't mention. But we do have, like, a aggregate situation at Andric's wedding. That's where the president acted under the Constitution and he's not the boss of the party and that's good. However, his aggregate condition, which is different from yours, is seen every day by criticising Minister Stefanovic for a car, so he criticises Minister Mihajlovic, so your municipal boards, which have three to five currents, are fighting each other. What is this aggregate state? When are you going to give the citizens of Serbia back the aggregate state of normal life and pay them back the salaries and pensions you've reduced, show them the jobs you're talking about, which they don't see?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27975	Talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27976	So I have to answer. The aggregates, I apologize, are that people see no state of improvement, and see only the states of doom, poverty and misery every day that this incompetent government is more with one unsuitable and incompetent prime minister at the head of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27977	Thank you, MP, time has passed. You asked for a replica. It's been 11 seconds. Look at the screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27978	I've got 15 seconds left. Here, I'm done. I'm asking you to try and talk about what you're doing or what you want to do, try to give us some results.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27979	Ambassador, please, I feel like I'm in training. Trust me. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27980	If we're going to ask questions, we can start with questions about Prada, questions about shopping in Herods, and then we can ask questions about a broken car and someone running away from the scene and we can ask a lot of these questions about different brands. As far as the municipal boards are concerned, the SNS has in every municipality, in every city, in every local community its municipal and local committee, unlike those in the aggregate, but also the state which is in the light of some mist that evaporates and does not have a reversible procedure, where municipal committees are without electricity, without water, but which is the worst, without people. There are no people. It's more of a disgrace to your community boards and to look around. People move to the other side of the sidewalk, the other side of the street when they see the DS sign. They're running away from it like fate is some. That's the problem. The problem is, in some local environments, like in Luciani, you couldn't even form your electoral list. They didn't want people on the list to stop. Then what's there? Mr. Djurisic's problem is that Mr. Tadic is subject to the Constitutional Court, and when it comes to the SNS minister or the SNS government, then Mr. Djurisic assumes the role of the Constitutional Court. It's a shame. Our mistake, of course we made them, of course, like living people that we would make them, but the biggest mistake I admit is that we haven't changed you before, just because we didn't drive you away before, because Serbia would have a chance for a more decent, normal, better life. Are you talking to your President Tadic? How is it that when you, as vice president, criticise salary and pension cuts, and on the other hand, he says as president of your party, the fundamental mistake I made is that I allowed salaries and pensions to be raised without foundation in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27981	Time. Thank you. We'll respect the weather. National MP Marijan Risticevic waits 45 minutes to talk about the amendment. I think it's time we heard something about the amendment to the end. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. I think we need to stop. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You respect me and give me the right to the replica. ) There is no right to reply because I have decided to talk about the amendment. Here you go, MP, use your right. You're as right as the other MPs. It's hard for me to give you that right, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, I have listened with attention to all my predecessors, expecting that the amendment that has been accepted is commended by all members of the opposition, as praised by one of the previous speakers whose amendment has been adopted. The government accepted it, but yet I note that there are no members of that party of two members who come here and only make noises, so they almost scared me before the amendment was explained. Whenever he doesn't know what he's going to do, he catches the noise and I'm almost afraid to talk about the amendment. I thank the government for accepting this amendment to the opposition. However, I do not accept the comment of the motion that speaks of constitutionality and advocacy for constitutionality, which I would like to praise if there was some tradition in this pledge. Mr Babic has already said that the president of the state has performed three functions. It is still apart from "Bote" radio Josip Broz Tito, even Milosevic froze functions and gave Borislav Jovic. That's not all. When they speak of constitutionality, they should remember that the same president of the Republic tried to reach the third term, which was also, Mr Babic, against the constitution, because the constitution says one person could be president of the Republic in two terms. I do not agree with the fact that the Constitutional Court was able to assess this because, just then, the Constitutional Court was chosen not a very strange way, by the 15 judges five proposed by the President of the Republic, five proposed by the Assembly, where he had the majority, and five, it seems to me, the Supreme Court of Cassation, which means that the President of the Republic in one way or another controlled 10 judges of the Constitutional Court and did not expect them to deny him the right to also be the President of the Republic for the third time, but that right, fortunately for all citizens, challenged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by not voting for such a presidential candidate, not allowing him to violate the Constitution and become the third President of the Republic, which would be contrary. So thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We owe them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27983	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27984	Well, it's about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27985	It's not. You mention presidential candidates. The election's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27986	Ma'am, I wouldn't mention that the amendment promoter in his explanation didn't mention this particular subject. That's why I said I agree with the acceptance of the amendment, but not with the explanation, since they tried to break the Constitution in the way I described it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-08-0.u27987	Thank you. In accordance with Article 103, Section 9, please, in writing about my session and I will answer you. Let me keep the session going. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I answered. I've still got time. Don't yell. You won't achieve anything by violence. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, and given that it has already voted in the first two points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). Rules of Procedure, I order Friday, 8 May 2015, with the beginning of 12.35 hours, as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 152 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the third item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol Number 15, which is amended by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in general, by the amendment of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Protection of Private Protection of Secret Data I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual protection of classified information, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted seven, of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security I am putting to the vote the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Security, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 11 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 157 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 163, out of the 165 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155, of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 12 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 157 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, against – seven abstentions – there are no votes, no four votes, of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Private Security Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual recognition of driving licences I am putting forward the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual recognition of driving licences. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 163 against – no one, with abstention – has voted two, of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 5 May 2015, at 11 o'clock and three minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - three, abstentions - no, 154 of the total attendance of 164 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 5 May 2015, in 14 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 96 and 98. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the injured members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against - four, abstentions - no, 145 of the total of 165 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 6 May 2015, at 13.00 hours, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against - one, abstention - there is no, 139 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 7 May 2015, at 12 hours and 53 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against - one, the abstentions - there is no, 138 of the total attendance of 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 7 May 2015, at 14 hours and 21 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - four, abstentions - there is no, 132 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 7 May 2015, at 15 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 108 and 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the injured members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 133 of the total of 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 7 May 2015, at 15 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 126 of the total of 135 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
