ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32370	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the number of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32371	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I think that we are all in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agree that there is a need to achieve further savings in the budget, i.e. to reduce public expenditure and I think that the public debate on reform of the political system and change of the Constitution confirms that we believe that there is a need to reduce the number of MPs in this House, as well as to reduce the number of committees in local self-governments. In this regard, my question has been asked by the Ministry of State Administration and the self-government bar, which refers to the number of agencies that exist at the moment in our country. So, I'm interested in how many agencies are there and how much is allocated to their work on an annual basis from the budget? According to some incomplete data, because there is no single record and it is almost impossible to determine the number of state agencies, there are over 130. It's an extremely large number, it's a huge burden on the economy, total budget. I believe that it is necessary to reduce the number of agencies, that they should only be brought down to the necessary number, if one Germany, we know with how much money they have in the budget and how many Germany has residents, there are less than 10 agencies, if Slovakia has fewer than 15, if Croatia does not have more than 30, I think it is necessary to make one decisive cut, reduce the number of agencies, and certainly we need to carry out a review, determine whether we need the Agency to determine the reasons for maritime accidents. Therefore, some information has revealed that over 800m euros are being allocated for their annual performance. Recently, Minister Rasim Ljajic said that by reducing the number of MPs in the 125 assembly, savings from 2m euros per year will be achieved. So by simply compiling this data as far as it is allocated to the work of the agencies, it is clear where true savings can be achieved and how to further consolidate the budget and how to enable citizens to achieve a higher standard, i.e. how to make the promise that soon the salaries and pensions will be returned to the previous level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32372	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32373	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My question is to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and what is the plan for the economic development of the city of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia? I just want to remind the Prime Minister that three years ago in a campaign for the republican elections and a year and a few days ago, when the republican elections, the citizens of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia, were promised a better life, more jobs. We have a situation that three years after the government of this assembly majority and this government in the city of Nis has more than 36% unemployed, which is about 40,000 working people, that for the last three years only the tax on property has been increased from 50 to 300%, that the price of heating over the city's heat has been increased so much that people have started to spontaneously gather, organize and protest in the streets because they don't see how to get out of the problems they've set themselves on fire. Nis citizens are also responsible for people who are at peace with their obligations, but they find themselves in a situation where they have nothing to pay for communal costs, have nothing to support their families because, like everywhere in Serbia, both salaries and pensions have been reduced by 10% to budget users in Nis. On the other hand, an increase in municipal costs, high unemployment, I say, which is over 36%, is one of the largest unemployment in the Republic of Serbia, and in a city that's the second or third, there was once another, but now it's the third largest, so people don't know how to make ends meet. The justified dissatisfaction of the citizens of Nis must be resolved. The gathering on the streets is inadmissible, but they have no other way. That is why I insist that the Prime Minister says what is the plan for economic development of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia, because only the opening of new jobs, by hiring people, will be able to reconcile their obligations to the state, according to local self-government. People fear the executioners of judgment; they fear the loss of what is left of them; and this is the dwelling place. In the town of Nis, it happened just over a month ago that a man with a family lost his house. Thank God and the good people of the city of Nis who raised the money and managed to get his house back, i.e. to pay off their debt to distribution, so that family has no problem waiting for winter. But the citizens of Nis out of fear of such processes that can happen, rebel and seek exclusion from the city's heat, so as not to put the bailiffs at the door. As far as I know, hundreds of Nish citizens have filed a request to shut down remote heating. Most of these demands were rejected by heat and people began to complain. I ask the Prime Minister, since the essence of the problem is not whether the price is this size or that much, it will be professional services, people who deal with the economy, say whether it's justified or not, the point of the problem is that people don't work and have nothing to pay for what is their obligation. They do, but they have nothing to pay. So I repeat the question - what is the plan for the economic development of the town of Nisa, what is the plan for the economic development of the south and southeast of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32374	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32375	Thank you. I ask my question to Minister Alexander Vulin, which refers to the Family Financial Support Act with children, which has not yet entered the assembly procedure, and Minister Vulin has promised to do so as soon as possible. I would first like to say that the "P/Bravo for Moms" campaign began on 8 March 2014 in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was attended by 250 mothers and maternity mothers, pregnant women, who spoke with MPs. That's what we all remember, because those moms took pictures with us and we supported them. In fact, he was a controversial member of the 13th Law, which referred to the payment of salaries to pregnant women and mothers, in fact, to the payment process, where the state would assume that obligation on itself, and the employer would report and check out the foster care at the beginning and end of the absence, instead of every month. Three organizations – Serbia in motion, the Centre for Moms and the Association of Parents mobilized moms between May and July 2014, organised a conversation with us, MPs and 158 MPs talked and took pictures with moms. The talks referred to an amendment to the Law on Financial Support for the Family. Afterwards, co-ordinators of the project also spoke with Minister Vulin and then Minister Krstic and invited them to participate in a task force to prepare changes to the Law on Financial Support for the Family, as indicated. The task force has not met until now, had no precise agenda, were not concise conclusions, and all with the impression of stalling. It was not until winter, between 2014 and 2015, that the amendment of Article 13 was included in the assembly procedure, but the amendments to the Law that Minister Vulin had promised had not yet arrived on the agenda. The amendment of the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, which also led the campaign, "P/Bravo for Moms", did not take place despite the promise of 159 MPs, Minister Vulin and then Minister Krstic, who is no longer a minister, and we cannot blame him. The campaign required that the law be changed, in order to allow direct payment of salaries to births from the Republic of Serbia's budget, rather than from employers' accounts. In this way, a bad practice of the great delay in these salaries would be interrupted. As I said, a working group has been formed, which has not met, so I ask Minister Vulina – when will his ministry propose amendments to the Family Financial Support Act with children? Will this arrive by September, and does this task force intend to meet with moms and agree and make the law and amend the Financial Support Act to families?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32376	Thank you. You can hear very badly in the hall, and because of the noise, and the sounding is a disaster, so I'm asking a little effort to talk to everyone in the microphone. It gets worse and worse every day. We'll see that something is done in the summer break, if possible. There's a word for Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32377	I have two questions for Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, concerning missing information, and they are related to a tragedy that ended in the death of seven people on 13 March this year in an action of a helicopter rescue mission. The first question is Minister Gasic – on the basis of which information, based on which information and how the information provided to him has made a decision to launch a rescue helicopter mission? The second question - who, in which service, in which department and with which powers changed the flight plan of the helicopter, when the helicopter was already in the air and on its way to one of the destinations after the rescue mission was completed? I've already asked Minister Gasic these two questions. In the answer I received, there is one sentence that answers are found in reports made by two commissions, which is not true. One of us does not read the reports, or one of us dares to mock the procedures and competencies that both of us MPs and every minister, no matter what resolution in the Government of the Republic of Serbia was. In any of the reports, in any of the information, there is no record of who informed Minister Gasic, in which way, by what protocol, that they had obtained the conditions for him to make an oral decision on the rescue mission and to rescue the baby from a vehicle trapped by a dive? Everything else has – and a breach of protocol by oral decision, and non-information by the Chief of Staff, and the telephone call of General Bandic, and phone orders for the launch of the mission. But there is no key information – who told Minister Gasic that there are conditions for launching a rescue mission? Not in any report, not in any information available on the investigation. Other information missing in both reports – who changed the flight plan? All the reports say about meteorological conditions for landing the aircraft, or helicopters at “Nikola Tesla Airport”, but there is no information on who contacted flight services at “Nikola Tesla” airport as a civilian airport, who changed the flight plan during the rescue action? And if the rescue mission tragedy of a helicopter hadn't ended in the death of seven people on March 13th, these two questions would have asked for an answer. The observation that these two issues are the subject of an investigation does not stand, since they are part of the overall which implies answers in both reports made by the Commission. If the minister does not want to answer, and if he thinks that one sentence, that the answers are in the report, he can mock the parliamentary issue, it is also an answer. Unfortunately, it's a bad answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32378	Anyone else want to ask a question? The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32379	I would like to thank the President. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and Mr. Minister Alexander Vulin. In June of this year, the Novi Sad City Assembly adopted a plan for the general regulation of the populated town of Veternik in which it defined among other locations for the construction of 276 apartments for refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. This plan was made on the basis of a Memorandum of Cooperation between the city of Novi Sad and the Commissioner for Refugees and Displaced Persons, which envisions resolving their housing problems. However, the adoption of the plan was preceded by the best-ranking political-motivated campaign by those who do not want to solve the problems of the evasive persons, with embarrassing words and the untruth that asylum and other lies will be built in that place in order to insinuate the people against the construction of these apartments. Just as we would like to give the citizens of the newly-sad village of Veternik the right information, last week a tribune was held in the local community of Veternik, attended by Mr Miodrag Linta, our fellow MP and president of the Association of Refugees, representatives of the Commissioner, Mr Milan Novaković, MP, also our colleague and my little one, and then we had a full three-hour conversation with the citizens and answered all the questions. It has shown that the citizens of Veternik were the object of someone's manipulation and lies and that they are people who are tolerant and understanding about the needs of the evasive faces and accept that these apartments are built in that place. Also, in addition to spreading such lies among the citizens of Veternik, the DS led by Bojan Pajtic even had the courage to call in the media Mayor Milos Vucevic and accuse him of not moving his finger to use the money to solve issues, the housing issues of the refugees. But the truth is completely different. The town of Novi Sad, headed by Mayor Milos Vučević, has provided conditions for housing to be built, unlike the previous regime that, not only helped spread lies, but really did not move to solve these faces' problems. Why am I saying this? Because I have information that since 2009 there are funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to address the housing needs of refugees who, based on the Commissioner's competition, are available for cities, on average about 50 million dinars a year, and it's a terrible thing that the city's authority then did not withdraw a single dinar of these funds, and it even took them two years to adopt an action plan that was a condition for the withdrawal of these funds. In order to show that the previous city government led by the DS did not worry about evasive persons and indeed did not move with the finger to help them, I ask the following question, how much funds based on the grant contest on behalf of the assistance for the economic empowerment of the families of refugees and internally displaced persons on their territory by the Refugee Commissioner were available to local self-governments in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and is it true that the town of Novi Sad Action Plan only adopted in 2010, even though 2008 could do so? Was the town of Novi Sad in the period from 2008 to 2012 when most of the DS took part in the competitions of the Commissioner for Refugees and Displaced Persons and, on that basis, withdrew funds from the programme to resolve refugee issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32380	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Can I open the debate further? I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jovana Jovanovic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Branko Ružic and Zlata Djeric. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE POLICE LAW under Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Milorad Todorovic, adviser to Interior Minister Milena Vukovic, legal adviser for normative affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Natasa Milidragovic and chief police inspector at the Police Administration Milan Andric. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32381	In Article 1, we believe that the word "European integration" is a surplus, because it is already described in the previous word of international institutions. In any case, we don't think we should give it any priority, and we don't think that the tasks should qualify that way. We think it's a previous formulation, it's applied to the whole world, and there's no need for any special giving meaning to that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32382	National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32383	Madam Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in a situation where there is no proposal from the Director of Police, what does the minister do then? It is my view that, of course, the Police Directorate daily delivers reports of competent, professional and authorised persons on the state of security and adequate assessment. What's an estimate, it's not something that's exact. So someone can estimate that a proposal should be made for the minister to take certain measures, in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which are between regular and emergency situations, when it comes to endangering the security of people and property in a greater extent, but simply, regardless of the professional assessment, can leave out the formal proposal of the police director, so simply what do you do in this situation? The assumption is it's not gonna happen, but it's possible it's gonna happen. That's why I made this proposal, without my rigid attitude that I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32384	There you go, the minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32385	In principle, by accepting what was said in the debate, and in this part, I agreed with you, by accepting Mr Kovacevic's amendment, that, since he made a similar point and said that this is a question which is a fundamental, political issue, that the minister should launch the initiative, and the director of the police is literally prescribing measures and how police forces use it, although I think that your idea is accepted as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32386	The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32387	Thank you, Madam President, honourable ministers and co-workers of the MUP and the honourable MPs, MP Boris Tadic SDS-ZZS-ZS, has submitted an amendment to Article 2(1), where it is added and reads: "The minister is obliged to report within three days of the day of the issuing of the mandates referred to in Article 1 of this Article to the committee responsible of the National Assembly on the tasks of which he has ordered and the results achieved." We wanted this amendment by the Minister of the Interior to carry out, in a short time, the committee of the National Assembly on the tasks of which it had also ordered the results that had been achieved. In fact, it is a situation which, by its nature, is extraordinary and high-risk, and therefore requires urgency in handling, but requires that the legislative authority also has a mechanism of special control over the work of the executive in these situations, especially when it has experience with the May 2014 floods and its consequences. The explanation given for the rejection of this amendment, as you can believe, we knew, when we submitted this amendment, that there was a committee in charge and that this committee could be ambushed, but exactly what I said from some experience, we asked that in three days' time the committee sit down and that the minister perform first of all on the results. I repeat, this is not political, but police security control, in order to achieve a broader consensus between the executive and the legislative authorities in crisis situations. In the plenary part, I understood you when I was talking about this article, that you would accept and I really don't see the reason why this wasn't accepted, because the simple intention was just to have as much control as I could and as I said, in the plenary section, that there was a possibility of abuse and that there would be no such abuse, given what our political situation is, we suggested this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32388	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32389	I don't think there can be any abuse because these members are given no different rights, no new rights, no ministers, no police director. The involvement of police forces, both at this time and without this member of the law, are in the field of power of the minister and the director of police who can use their right to engage all police capacity for all that the law and the Constitution empower them. So there are no new rights that would allow for abuse. As regards the Committee, the Committee on Home Affairs and Security may at any time request from the Ministry over which it has the power to occupy and respond to the Ministry, or the Minister to each of these issues. So, the Committee has the right to ask us to meet within an hour and discuss issues concerning this matter, so we cannot influence who the ministry is, it is a sovereign decision of the Committee, so the control mechanism is fully sound in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32390	The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32391	Thank you. I'm using the time of the mandated MP of the DS Group. To support amendments submitted by colleagues with full understanding that the control of the legislative authority over the executive exists, and that it is really possible, as the minister says, that the Committee requires either a report from the Minister or the Director of the Police, or whoever the Committee on Internal Affairs and Security considers necessary, but the amendment makes sense because of the very special situation here, with my hope that this member of the law will never be applied. This is one of the rare cases where I will vote for a law with the hope that there are indications, events that show that there has been an increase in public security risks, a threat to the safety of people that it will simply never be applied, because there will be no such circumstances, but this concerns hostage crises, various degrees of terrorist action, abductions, situations where infrastructure facilities such as airports or facilities supplying water, electricity, etc., where there is a serious risk of public security, and if it is already established that the Director of Police has the basis to propose the execution of tasks of adequate circumstances, then it would be good that there is also a legal obligation of the Minister, i.e. government to carry out all of this within the shortest possible time and the Committee. I repeat, with full understanding that this committee can do it anyway, but with the hope that we will never see it applied in practice. It is good to discuss here the need for us as a legislative authority to have two functions, one that we also fulfill with today's debate and debate in particular on the adoption of laws, and the other is the control of the executive authority. It is good for the executive power, each, much more than some special role of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32392	Thank you. Minister, are you looking for a replica? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32393	Short. Here's what I'm saying is that even in the Defense Act, when a situation like this occurs, the law predicts that the interior minister and the defence minister are proposing, to say, taking certain measures. What I have pointed out and I want to repeat again, and at this point, therefore, before the adoption of this law, the Home Secretary can order without any problems and without any legal interference from all units of the MUP to the last man, to withdraw them from their vacations, to absolutely all capacities, techniques and people to the place he believes they can be sent. This only defines itself more precisely, and in spite of the Law on Defence, they put it into the Law on the Police, to say this kind of definition, which I think is a good thing to norm it and to say some of the discretion we bring down to the legal norm, and this significantly improves control. I can now accept that this member of the law, for example, withdraw. I remain a minister, or any interior minister, will have the same authority to hire all police forces on the basis of his assessment or security risk, for which the minister is authorized to bring and to give the order to the Director of Police that all police forces are engaged in a certain part of the territory not to make any account other than that, to say, which is regular control of both the board and the Government, etc. So, this does not introduce the possibility of abuse, this possibility of abuse is reduced, and the report to the committee can be filed at any time when the committee requires it, so that in the event of an emergency situation that makes it impossible for the minister to, for example, be it on the ground or is an emergency situation of such a kind that can't be answered, then he would come into a situation to break the law, and it's not realistic to meet what he is, to say in this article. Only for that reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32394	The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32395	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we agree that this Article 2 and the new Article 11, 14a of the Law should be introduced into the Police Act and it is not disputed, we did not in this amendment in any way dispute or want to say in any way that it should not be normised, as you said, and by this law what the Police Minister can do and how he can engage all police forces when the situation, when there is a risk of public security. What we wanted and what we want to do in continuity, to strengthen Parliament's control role and our amendment is to inform the committee, the committee responsible for the Assembly, in this case, of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee within three days by the ministers who were assigned to the police, which is why the risks and how something was done within that short period. What we are constantly trying through various laws, the continuity of amendments, we are trying to strengthen the control role of parliament. You have answered, there is already a possibility by law and by the Rules of Procedure that parliament is seeking this report, but we want it to be not a right, but a legal obligation, which is why we propose this amendment. We can agree whether this deadline that we put on three days may be too short in some situations, but sometimes I think it's appropriate, here's the situation that happened in Macedonia a few months ago, you reacted quickly, you hired yourself, the police hired. It was not fortunate to pour these security risks into the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but it may have been a good time for the committee to, say, meet and hear from you in those days a report and through the committee and citizens of Serbia were familiar with certain things, so we do not see the problem of finding this in this law as well as in other laws. I understand, to say, as we insist on some things, mostly from the government is always the answer – there is, there is a possibility, the board can ask. Unfortunately, practice has shown not these governments but also in an earlier period, I will agree that parliament cannot properly achieve its control role, that it is often subordinated to the executive authority. We are now struggling to change it and in this place this government has no understanding, they had no other, I say here's the water I say without having to blame something special on you now, we generally feel that we need to strengthen Parliament's control role and that this is one of those ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32396	The word is Momir Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32397	I disagree that this amendment is accepted for several reasons. In addition to the minister's fine explanation, the reasons that are for not accepting this amendment, I see that he insists that this amendment be accepted. The motive is to strengthen Parliament's control function, but where the border between Parliament's control function and the interference of executive bodies is to carry out their duties or functions. The first reason is because the MUP and the minister submit reports, regular reports to the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs in which they will also be described, explained and explained one such situation when ordering the emergency use of units. The second reason is because also in the description of the current obligations of the Minister and the Director of Police, they can apply that authority. Third, what exists already in the Law on Defence, the Law on the Army of Serbia, such a situation where the defence minister can order the use of the force's work to inform the competent one within a defined deadline. Fourthly, which if we accepted this amendment, then we would have practice, God forbid, that if there were more situations, and we could not rule out more such situations that the minister would be able to order the use of force, in accordance with this article, then as a Committee, we would be constantly confused with the reports, which the minister otherwise submitted to the Government, with a report whether the minister had done the right thing, whether the reasons for the conduct were justified, whether there was a plan, which were the effects of the involvement of the units of police, and simply, from that would result in politicisation and obstruction of the work of the MUP, because what the Committee wanted would require the minister to come and refer to a concrete use of force. I quite think that the proposed legislation is adequate and this amendment is unacceptable, because I deeply respect one of the functions of Parliament, which is a control function, but I think that in these amendments this control function is kind of politicizing, degraded and not serving its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32398	National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32399	Thank you. Article 3 deals with the mode of engagement, first division and definition, then with the way the special unit and special units of police are hired. Not to read it, since it is a debt, my amendment concerned the last attitude, which was read – the engagement proposal contains a security assessment and a plan that can be delivered and subsequently, if the reasons for urgency so require. My amendment proposed that this attitude be changed and that it be read – the proposal for engagement contains a security assessment and a plan of activity. This means that no possibility is allowed to subsequently write an activity plan and a security assessment. The explanation is on two sides. I don't want to read it whole, but I think it's perfectly clear that if you're hiring a special unit or a special unit, it's an emergency situation, but of course you have to have a security assessment of why you're hiring them and a plan of activity as well as how you hire them. That's what I said in the principle debate, I'm going to repeat, and now, I'm sure, that I know confidently that Serbia's MUP has enough professional people who can do it in any situation, with any possible surprise within tens of minutes. There is no situation in which a special unit or special unit can be used without taking less time. If it takes less time, then there's no use. That situation happened and there's no more help. So it's possible to do that, and what do we get by it? We get that, first of all, the officers who are the perpetrators of that order, the use, they get, first of all, clear, in writing, the definition of what they should do. I'm using those five minutes, too, Mr. President. So they get in writing what they have to do. There's no way of getting any abuse from either top, in any part of the chain of command, because it's known exactly why the task force is engaged and how it's supposed to work. There's no doubt. If anything happens that comes out of a regular situation, that plan of activity and that security assessment will be the basic text, the basis for assessing who did his job properly, and who eventually made a mistake, and who eventually sought abuse. The amendment, Minister, was rejected and it is very interesting, because we had a close opinion on it at the consultations, and not only that, but you said in the principle debate, I quote the minister – Mr Zivkovic suggested an amendment which I would also accept, which was also quite good. That's what this is about. That didn't happen, but the Committee submitted an amendment to that member, to that position, where he divided it into two positions, and it had nothing to do with the Ministry. It has to do with the board, it's tricks. It's like something's done. So, the Committee has given an amendment that reads, meaning: “The present position 7 that becomes attitude 8, is replaced by the attitudes 8 and 9, which read – the engagement proposal contains a security assessment and an activity plan. In the case of activity, the activity plan may be submitted and subsequently." And the original text of the bill is – the proposal for engagement contains a security assessment and a plan that can be delivered and subsequently, if this is the reason for urgency. So we played a little bit, the line of words in the sentence was changed and two sentences were made. This amendment proposal has only one objective and I think anyone who has ever considered or, God has not given, used special units for any particular purpose, in case of urgency, knows why it is necessary to have a security assessment and plan of activity, that it is good for all participants in that chain of decision without any possibility of anything happening afterwards. This way, I'm speaking plainly, it might occur to us that someone should come up with a proposal for a minister to hire a special unit or a special unit for a reason that has nothing to do with what it is to do with the police. The Home Secretary absolutely doesn't have to be a police expert. The Home Secretary is a politician, everywhere in the normal world, even here. It's not his job to be an expert, to know exactly what it takes, what it takes, how much it takes, what the plan. For this, there are experts who need to propose this in writing to the minister, who gives consent on the basis of the approval or orders given by the Director of Police. It is the protection of constitutional and legal order, the protection of the executive government, the protection of citizens, the protection of police officers at all levels of responsibility and throughout the chain of command. I think that the amendment that I have proposed should be accepted, not only because the minister has already said so in the principle debate, but because the amendment gives one complete good, is not a perfect, of course, but a very good solution to protect against any possibility of abuse or malicious interpretation of some use of a special unit and special units.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32401	We, in principle, accepted the amendment of the committee, accepted that the proposal to hire it contains a security assessment of the plan of activity. However, if a situation occurs at the moment and requires that a special unit be launched immediately to prevent more damage to the security of the Republic of Serbia, we would have to keep them until a security assessment is done. Security assessment can't be done in two minutes, can't be done in ten. It might take two or three hours. The second is what a special unit does operationally. The unit commander and his security sub-formation within the unit will make, let me say, walk, as special units do, because they also serve for rapid interventions and interventions that would normally not be handled, because if it were a regular operation, then there would be no need for any urgency. So, the minister is always there to explain the reasons for the urgency. Secondly, our special forces in the last many years have not been able to see that they have been engaged anywhere past assignments, since this is given special attention, given that our bill requires a special unit to become a unit, and that is the unit that will have less than 1% of employees in the entire MUP. If we're talking about the possibility, so we can hire a police brigade as a special unit, which has thousands of people, where there's no need for an explanation or a security assessment. We can hire a gendarme, which has 3,600 people, which is a much stronger formation unit than a special unit, which doesn't need a security assessment and anything like that under this law, but we have to do for a special unit, which counts for 300 people, so that's very important, because they can't function differently in emergency situations. It's just that it can't stand in cases of urgency. If a special task force is involved, it is precisely because of these reasons to solve something quickly, urgently, effectively, especially when it comes to terrorist challenges, hostage situations, or the incursion into, say, drug labs, where usually police lack enough experience and training to successfully and without harming police members to carry out such a type of intrusion. When there are, of course, when it's a regular activity planned by the prosecution of the court, the CoC, etc., then there's enough time to do and it's always done extensively for every activity, I've always been familiar with, there's a very detailed lab, a plan of use of units, a plan of work, security checks, everything else that's been done. When it has to be done, you say – it has to be done in the next 10 minutes, it has to be started, so they serve, so in cases of urgency it can be delivered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32402	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32403	I said the Home Secretary doesn't need to know what the police are doing, because it's not his profession, any of which, I'm not talking about concrete, but I don't think the current minister has understood Article 20 of the Law. You just said that based on this article, there's no need to make a security assessment and plan to use special units. That's not true. That's what the law says. Look at Art. Six and seven. So it's not just for a special one, as you said, which has less than 0.1%, but it's also for a gendarme, and for helicopters, it's for a personality protection unit. Therefore, Minister, you did not read the law well, because if you had read the law correctly, then you would realize that this applies to these units, and then I'm sure you would accept this amendment, as you said in the principle debate. Therefore, if you try to read a little more, at least this member, I am sure you will understand that my amendment is necessary for the law to be good enough and that it could be for the benefit, happiness and success of the work of the Serbian police.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32404	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the Honorable Minister, I think this should be considered with due consideration, given that my colleague with unquestionably experienced experience, which was not acquired in the service of security forces, but in command of security forces. So it's not an experience from pre-war and military training that wasn't there. It's a life experience. He understands security assessments very well, the plan of activity and the urgency, no doubt. That's something to be appreciated. I also have proof. He says so – October 5th, the previous speaker, was a direct realiser of the division of arms and ammunition to the most extreme individuals in the Belgrade City Assembly with the intention of going into a final battle with the paramilitary and parapolitan formations that Milosevic had with him. Third Army OB report, 17035-1 since 9 November 2000. So, on the scene of the arms division to special forces for special purposes, but behold, some of them, individuals who belonged to the team at the speed-based special forces were members of the so-called "Special Units". The Surcinal and Zemun clan we heard about the moment the former prime minister was killed by those two clans and, of course, when the prime minister was killed in his place came my colleague. Also, I must remind you that there is a reasonable suspicion that from this weaponry the members of these special criminal units of the Zemun and Surcin clan were killed Momir Gavrilovic, a regular member of the security forces who had just warned of suspicious affairs and of the speedy...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32406	Ambassador, I appreciate what you're saying, but I would kindly ask you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32407	I'm talking about the amendment as much as the promoter did. I'm talking about special units and the experience of a proposing who's so quick, in a few hours...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32408	I know, MP. You have special treatment with me. It's no problem, but about the amendment, please. I hear what you're saying very well. If we're gonna focus on today's work, then the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32409	He says the engagement proposal contains a security assessment and a plan of activity. I am talking about the experience of the promoter on the plan of activity and the security assessment carried out on 5 October by handing out arms to criminal groups and these acts and actions to this day have not been processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32410	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32411	I could have picked up the phone about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't. So, of course, I don't want to comment on the exposition of a predecessor who's under your special treatment, and I totally agree that he should be under special treatment, even if yours, but that bunch of lies and lies, which are being told here, an insult, you haven't responded for a moment. I see some were pleased here. He showed up after many decades of smiling on his face, because they heard one unspeakable, so you know what word goes behind that, and you were satisfied to hear one absolute lie that's been repeated 100 times. That's what it says about you. That's what he says about the chairman who's been pretending not to hear what's going on. If anyone did what the predecessor accused me of, he should have been in prison a long time ago. If not, he should be in jail now. After this discussion, the wise majority of them either have to lift my immunity and take me where I need to go, or I need to get a collective apology for what's being heard here. For a year and a half, I have listened to MPs who are under special treatment, quote the president, but there is a certain limit and that border will testify whether this is the temple of Serbian parliamentism or the majority that exists here now has this many rights to be called the democratic majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32412	Thank you. I accept the criticism on my own account, and my colleagues will take each and every one for themselves. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. ) As I understand and understand it, MP Zivkovic addressed me and a collective group of MPs. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: I was misread. You're well interpreted. Article 104(3) must apply sometime for you. Do not refer to the Rules of Procedure at this time... (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32413	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. The breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Assembly and other injuries because she allowed another injury to the Rules of Procedure, because I am designated here as a person with special treatment. I seem to have this special treatment, but not in a positive way. So, anything other colleagues, I'm not against, from the opposition, I'm not. I don't know on what basis he got the right to a replica, and I didn't, but this special treatment is particularly offensive. As far as I'm concerned, I've had special treatment often, and I've had it in an army that the predecessor didn't serve, but I keep a report here. In one I can agree, in order to restore the dignity of the National Assembly, that what he said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32414	Ambassador, you have not been given the right to a replica and you have abused her.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32415	I'm talking about how hurt dignity is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32416	I said you have special treatment, because you allow yourself what other MPs cannot afford.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32417	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32418	You can't finish the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32419	You've just proven why I'm having special treatment and I'm asking for this injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32420	They'll absolutely vote. It is your right, but you must understand that there are 250 MPs and that here everyone is equal and in their obligations, as well as in respect of Parliament's dignity, which you are not doing right now. The word has the People's MP Momi Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32421	Thank you. I'd like to return to the proposed amendment. Requesting special units, special anti-terrorism units in various crisis situations, plan and assessment is not acceptable for two reasons. (Marian Risticevic approaches the presidency table. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32422	Don't come any closer now. Don't come any closer. You didn't get your license.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32423	The first reason is urgency. He can't... Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32424	If it makes it possible for you, Ambassador Risticevic, of course. Ask a colleague to allow you to discuss it. He's got all his limits. Just wait for the MP to come out and you'll continue. I'll give you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32425	Two are the basic reasons why this amendment is not acceptable. First, because it is an emergency and every delay, making an assessment and a plan, and in a variety of situations, the anti-terrorist unit does not react very urgently, would have catastrophic consequences. Another key reason why a special anti-terrorist unit in peace has elaborated plans from hostage situations, from release, removal of explosives. So for the various situations for which a special anti-terrorist unit is intended, it already has plans in peace and only acts on these plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32426	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32427	Thank you. In the debate on both amendments to Article 3 of the proposal, amending and supplementing the law, I think firstly that it is good that the Committee has submitted an amendment to the basic proposed text and that amendment in general contributes to improving the entire text of amendments and complementarity in general. I wish that part of the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic could also be classified, but that the sentence I consider first in the Committee's amendment, extremely important, is that the handling of responsibilities in the Police Directorate is based on the principle of single-age and co-ordination. This shows that the Committee and the Proposer, therefore the executive authority really cooperates well, because this improves the solution. What should be considered is no change, of course more in the accepted amendment of the Committee, but these two attitudes that MP Zoran Zivkovic mentioned as a language separation define a very important protocol for events I repeat, I would not like this member to be applied to, for many good reasons, and I would never want anyone to talk about here about the real security assessment and plan of activity ever again, and we can always mock each other. So the engagement proposal contains security assessments and a plan of activity. There is also fellow MP Momir Stojanovic right. The units have it. That's what they do. In case of urgency, the plan of activity may be delivered and subsequently. And this is the attitude that can produce small dilemmas -- how much later, to whom it's delivered later, how it's made, what's the urgency for a security assessment? I will deliberately give, in advance apologize to the members of the Ministry and the Minister, a simplified example, I know how the subordination goes and how the protocols go, but in order to understand why we stick around, the example is simplified. If, far away, you have an explosion in the field of the oil industry or of the nitrogen or chemical industry you must first know whether it was a technological process, an insufficient pass in charge of security that occurred or a terrorist act, which is also possible in today's world. I'm deliberately speaking in a simplistic manner. I, this member, these two last positions, look through this situation, because every law I see applies to someone by name or to the space where they're going to be applied. So, what happens when the Ministry was alarmed that the explosion happened? What's the protocol? Is it an emergency? Yes, it is. Does he have a plan of activity? By subordination, we know which units immediately go to the field by nature of things without a special decision of the minister, because everyone's eyes are blown up in the chemical industry or in the oil industry, all one thing. I repeat, away from it. Who's making a security assessment? How long does that take? Who's going to make a plan of activity in one case or another? I know that the answer is that this is being solved by sublegal acts and protocols within the sector which will be managed by authority and co-ordination, but I'm just trying to do the most because of those who listen to this debate to explain that the urgency process is not at all simple, regardless of the expertise, that there are regular security plans and I can only commend the members of the MUP there, because you simply can't find the situation that they were missing in the application of regular security plans or that they were missing in coordination. But since we're more clearly defining here, that's my only contribution. I'm not looking for a special answer to how it's going to work, but I'm just trying to shed light on the real situation, part of the life that these two last positions, which may seem either linguistic or non-related to us, that I'm not talking about that there's a plan of security measures and activities for knots like airports or facilities. In the end, I'm just going to give maybe a little comical example. There have been several cases and it's a completely routine thing, to drop your flight control system and have some situations that you don't have flights over Serbia's sky, because that's what's happening. It's a routine thing. That's not even for the safety plan. It's not an emergency either, but there may be situations where the minister has to cooperate with the defence minister to really ban the flight, since we've had such situations. So, two small positions, relating to urgency, to the safety assessment and when the plan of activity is delivered, essentially, there are many situations in which I know there are both knowledge and preparedness within the Ministry, but they can also produce, without clear protocols and sublegal acts of unnecessary confusion. I am not sure that this will come about, so I will vote for one and the other amendment, because I think that the Committee amendment really improves the text of the amendment and the addition of the law in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32428	I can only give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32429	Thank you. I appreciate what you said. That's correct, but I just want to tell you, so, in your case, which you've put forward, of course, you'd first go out in such a case, some competent police administration, which would direct a sufficient number of police officers at the discretion of being on the scene. Of course, in a case like this, the Emergency Sector, someone in charge of liquid control, flammable matter, explosive matter, etc., who would give an assessment of whether it was an explosion that was done on purpose, whether it was planted or a technical malfunction as a condition of explosion. Sometimes, however, you have to act preventively. Sometimes you send a unit, and what if it's terrorism? You find that in three hours, maybe it's too late and while all the plans and evaluations are being made, until they are determined, and we send the unit, then the first question will be – excuse me, are you amateurs who can't send people to react in that situation, that you weren't ready for it? Sometimes a unit will be directed, so it's great to have it back in 15 minutes to determine, or in an hour, it's a lot less damage than not to direct it, and to turn out, is that something that, of course, the Emergency Sector can't deal with that kind of terrorist threat. However, reports shall be submitted to those persons who give the units a warrant or consent to be referred, so to the Director or Minister, or to the Director and Minister in certain situations. So we have, as the Assembly Committee can do over the Ministry, we can at any moment demand from the units that kind of information. This is just about timing, giving them space so they can act, but I appreciate what you said you'd vote for both amendments, so I think we've essentially improved the basic text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32430	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32431	Of course, after the minister and after my esteemed colleague Momir Stojanovic, I have little to say, but I must point out that Article 3 refers to Article 20 of the Law on Police. That these are amendments and amendments to the law, so it is not the Police Act, that the amendment of MP Zoran Zivkovic should not be accepted, and the amendment proposed by the Committee is quite clear and quite accurate. Fortunately, the legal language used in this law is clear and precise and it refers absolutely to the fact that the proposal for engagement contains a security assessment and a plan of activity and it is absolutely not disputed that in case of urgency, the plan of activity can, this word "can" is very important from the legal aspect, so the word "can" implies that it can be delivered and subsequently, which, of course, means that it can be delivered immediately. Procedures requiring urgent response and urgent police involvement are those procedures that require action now and immediately. The plan of safety and plan of activity is certainly an integral part, but sometimes, for the safety and security of citizens and their property, this security and security plan, exclusively for the sake of urgency, can be delivered afterwards. So, no, he has to, but he can. The legal language is extremely clear, extremely precise and therefore Mr. Zivkovic's amendment is not meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32432	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32433	I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the parliamentary group. It's a procedural question, for the secretary and for the president, because I'm not sure, and I know we share the view that the procedure is culture. Following the amendment currently under review, which was submitted by the Committee, the amendment to the same member who became an integral part of the bill. If this amendment, which we are talking about, which has been tabled by the Committee, does not now become an integral part of the bill's proposal, then, when the debate passes the amendment that has become an integral part of the bill, the amendment submitted by the Committee has nothing to submit, because the member has been changed, I am afraid. I know the Minister will accept, the Committee has given, even if we have the oral consent that the Constitutional Affairs Committee has nothing, because we have two different amendments, both of which we both have consent. That's not a problem either, but I'm just not sure if we can proceed to an amendment that has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, and that in the voting day, votes on this amendment or that there is a stalemate and everything else. That's my question, only procedurally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32434	If I understand you correctly, you claim we cannot vote. We have to vote on each individual, and whether the adoption of the next amendment spoils something in the essence of the whole bill, I don't know, I haven't analyzed it in that sense. We could take a break, as we always do, but it's the services that are now monitoring the session, to see if there's any need for any harmonisation of the basic bill with what we're likely to do, and adopt, because I'm assuming the Minister will accept the next amendment. So, just in that sense, I'm asking for understanding, and the services to send it well, because when they come here with the text of the proposal that we know what to do, whether we should take a break, and then the committees come out with some harmonised amendment. But I don't know what we can change. Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm asking the Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32435	We accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32436	Thank you. The amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32437	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, thank you for accepting this amendment, you have announced this in principle debate, as well as one part of our amendment, which, as an amendment to the Committee, is to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 5. I'm glad we had the government's understanding and that you respected our constructive proposals to the greatest extent. I expect when the police law itself comes that we will have co-operation at the same level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32438	Thank you. Gordana Komic, according to this amendment now, adopted? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32439	I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS Group of Members. This is what this is about, so this is an amendment to the same member as the amendment of the Committee, as well as an amendment of the MP, as well as everyone. Luckily, I don't have an amendment, so I don't complicate that part with this article. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill. In that amendment, it is a joint decision, and it is good and everything is fine, point 3 is added – the police director is in charge of the police director. And I don't mind. The amendment the minister accepted earlier, the Committee, does not have that position. Because he refers to Article 20 before we agreed that it was good to accept the amendment with a third attitude. So, I don't mind even agreeing verbally to add a third position to the Committee's amendment, or a break, just so it's clear that there's no objection in the voting day, if I see it at all. I just don't get it, that's why I'm asking. The amendment cannot be rejected since it has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32440	Well, yes, amendments cannot be rejected, they have become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32441	The third position should be or should be added to the Committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32442	That's right, and procedurally, as we do, you know that. There is a pause in the vote itself, so that a new amendment will appear to bring all of this into line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32443	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32444	And that's how attitude three will appear here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32445	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32446	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32447	I just want to tell you, these amendments are not conflicting, or contradictory. They're completely consenting. One says, which Mr. Djurisic submitted, that the director manages the police directorship, it is perfectly normal, and another where he says, the Committee's amendment, which says that police management and responsibility are based on the principle of an eldership and co-ordination. The only technical problem that can be done through a legal-technical editorial is attitude. Just an attitude, that it's not becoming attitude 3, it's becoming attitude 4, let's say. It's just a legal-technical editorial that's done, because it's a technical matter. Because there's no mention of the same norm at all. Here it is said - the handling and responsibility of the police department is based on the head of an elder's co-ordination, period, end. And this one says - the police department is run by the police director. Fully two complementary attitudes. It's just a technical matter that both amendments predicted, because there are two attitudes, to insert a new attitude 3 that reads. So it can't be, no one could assume the adoption of the second amendment, so to say, point 4. So it's a legal-technical editorial that the National Assembly does, and there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32448	Anyway, I'm telling you, they're following the services, they're following the lawyers, they're going to tell us what's best for us, to come out with a new amendment, or that's not necessary. So you know how experienced people are. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vanja Vukic, Stefana Miladanovic and Sinisa Maksimovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this one has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32449	I thank you, President. Mr Minister of the Interior with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior and Government for accepting the only amendment to the SAA that has submitted to this Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Police Act, given that we have given up on the other amendments after useful consultations with you, and I think that practice should continue in the future. I would like to explain the SPS' intention to propose this amendment. Since the Police Act, Article 8, provides that the minister may request reports, data and other documents related to police work, then a representative of the police regularly and at his special request submits a report on police work and on all individual issues from the department of police, this could include a notice on the recruitment of members of the Ministry, which is brought to special units of the ministry. However, there is talk of regular reporting here. That regular report could be a week, ten days, a month or six months. However, due to the specificity of the work that special units are involved in, and since you are agreeing to the recruitment of special units, which means that you are automatically informed of their engagement and the purpose of engagement, the SPS has submitted an amendment to Article 3, which changes the existing Article 20 in paragraph 6, where, after saying, "Special units are engaged on a proposal from the head of the competent organisational unit, with the prior approval of the Director of Police", such as replacing them with a comma and adding words; "which is required to notify without delay the Minister of Interior of their engagement". I think the interior minister should always be informed of the engagement and special and special units of the MUP. I thank you once again for the accepted amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32450	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Gordana Chomoc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32451	Thank you. This is the second amendment that has become an integral part of the bill. Let me add that the amendment of the Committee, which we agree on, and these two that have become an integral part of the bill requires procedural intervention. The contents are perfectly fine and I support and should be voted, and should not be because they have become an integral part of the law. But since the amendments have been adopted in different places, we have a problem with procedural matters. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32452	Thank you. The People's MPs Gordana Chomoc and Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 4th Amendment together. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32453	Thank you. I had a statement on this amendment during the principle debate. Therefore, it is an amendment proposed in these amendments and additions, and as a direct consequence of accepting the citizens' initiative and the idea that in the event of a missing persons report, where there is a reasonable doubt that this person is a victim of a crime, that police officers are obliged, in collaboration with other competent authorities, with associations of citizens and with citizens of all, to act immediately. Unfortunately, we have this amendment in the procedure because of the very causes, i.e. frequent abductions, kidnappings of children and adults, and often with fatal outcomes. On the other hand, fortunately, we have this amendment in the process, because that means that we as a Parliament and government listen to what it is that citizens are required to act on behalf of those who need to be protected, protected and served. They're primarily members of the M.O.P., but so are all of us. In that observation I said that I know that the legal interpretation of the word "now" is that it is now, right now. It is also known to be unnecessary within 24 hours. This amendment has been submitted and because of the fact that it is good that we have the awareness here that this member will not be able to apply immediately without amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's a 24-hour deadline, and that was the only motive. And I said that accepting or not accepting this amendment doesn't change my decision to vote in favour of the law, because I think it's good and the way we've come to change and supplement this law and it's going to be good to apply. I repeat, again, with the hope that when it comes to the disappearances of minors, I can only hope that we will never apply this member, that we will never have to act as members of the MUP immediately, because there are doubts that it is a person who is a victim of a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32454	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32455	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I really respect the good intentions of the applicant for the amendment, but I do not think that the word "immediately" should be further explained through this amendment. So, no later than 24 hours, the police response should be instantaneous and activated by all police services. I think that's how it was in the past few cases after the monstrous murder of Tijana Juric. I believe that indeed these events have shown that the police must do their job more effectively and faster after the adoption of this "Tiana Law" immediately upon application. I don't think it should be further explained that this must be done within 24 hours at the latest, but, I say, I respect my fellow Members and amendment applicants for their excellent intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32456	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee for Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Minister, do they accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32457	The government accepts the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32458	I find that the amendment is accepted. Thank you. Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Chomoc and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32459	Thank you. It's about an amendment that defines how security checks are carried out. A member who is subject to alterations and additions defines the security checks of a person who wants to be employed in the MUP or in some part of it. He's implying, he's doing it routinely. So, a person who wants to get a job on his request is looking for a security check. The problem is this article that is added, which reads: "The security check is carried out and based on the requirements of another body or legal person in cases where it is prescribed by a special law", and our amendment reads to add the words "which is not related to the application for employment in the Ministry". Why has the amendment been submitted and what is the objective of the amendment? Because such a member, that security check is carried out on the basis of a request from another authority or legal person, leaves it unclear whether the person on whom a security check is carried out has knowledge that he is being subject to a security check. If he's hiring, then there is, because he's asking. Under what conditions do you seek the law to provide security checks on the person without him knowing you're running security checks on him? There are two cases that this particularly stands in any other law, as it says here, or that it is an investigation. If it's an investigation or a security threat, then it shouldn't be in this law. If it's what I think, that there's a bill on amendments and additions or a new National Security Services Act before us, then I understand that it will be followed by a context in which it is an organ or a legal person seeking a security check on a person. This article leaves unclear whether it applies to the members of the MUP or to anyone, and the difference is huge. And if it applies to the members of the MUP and if it applies to anyone, then that's where we can have a problem. I know that as it is written in the Police Act, he cannot produce the consequences that are unwanted, because the control of the way security checks are being restricted by other laws. But I think it is important to clarify through the acceptance or refusal of this amendment that it is precisely clear that they are not related to the application for employment at the Ministry, that the question on which persons are being checked is then answered. Does the person on whom security checks are carried out under Article 111a have any knowledge that he is being screened and in what way is this being made known to him? Does the person on whom the security clearance is carried out, as referred to in Article 111a, have any knowledge that he is being subject to security checks and how does this be made known to him? Is it only the members of the Ministry of the Interior or of anyone, and is it this member that security checks are carried out on the basis of the request of another body or legal person, in cases where it is prescribed by a special law, that it is related to persons who are under investigation that implies a security check? So I repeat that the amendment, acceptance or refusal, is not relevant for my decision to vote in favour of the law. I know that members of the Ministry of the Interior, or the authorities, are doing security checks based on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32460	You're moving on to group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32461	Yes, thank you. What we need, in response, is does this apply to anyone, does it apply to members of the Ministry of the Interior, and does it only apply to the bodies mentioned in the laws relating to security checks and who are the legal persons who have the right to request security checks from the Ministry of the Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32462	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32463	It's very simple. So, for example, in the Law of Detective Action, physical-technical security, you have an obligation to do a security check for a particular person who is doing that activity. On the basis of the Personal Data Protection Act, you are in charge of every person that is subject to security checks on this basis, and that it is not a procedure, or investigation, as you have said, as defined by Criminal Law, or the Criminal Procedure Act, you are obliged to deliver the consent of that person and there is no, and if, but, you are obliged, and the police do not carry out security checks for anyone, nor will they carry out, without the consent of the person that a security check can be carried out for his employment. It's about companies for physical and technical security, it's about customs administration, those jobs where it's necessary for a person who's fighting smuggling to have that kind of security assessment, the financial police and such institutions. Therefore, this law only provides for the possibility, i.e. the way security checks will be carried out, on the basis of the requirements of private companies and, above all, complies with the Law on Detective Activity. We simply have an obligation to bring it together. So far they had no right to ask the police for it, nor did the police have a way, perhaps we will be able to charge it this way, because we are wasting some resources, as is often the case. Yesterday we discussed it on the Committee. We provided over 56,000 events in the first half of this year, 56,000 events. If a cop had come out to those events and it's been 20 minutes, it's costing something. Somewhere the state is obliged to do so, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and for some of the conditions provided by the Ministry of the Interior, we will simply have to charge them, because certain companies and persons benefit from it, earning profits, and the Ministry has the cost, the cost of processing, and it is very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32464	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Mrs. Comic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32465	Thank you. I'm using the time of the DS parliamentary group. Only for confirmation, therefore, and the request of the authority and the legal person for the security clearance shall be accompanied by the written consent of the person on which the verification is carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32466	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Please, MP Milan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32467	In article 6, which concerns retirement at the age of 52 and 30, we feel that volunteering should have a serious criterion. We think, on a voluntary basis, that would be a good member of the law and we wouldn't have any objection. However, here we believe that, especially in the situation in which we are currently in place and with these announcements, which, unfortunately, extend into newspapers and which individuals weigh, we think that this experience that has been invested for years in our members of the Security Service, the Police Service, we think would be extremely useful, as colleagues in benches across the street explained the day before, we think that this logistics that has already been taught to them and they rule to be extremely useful to these situations. Also, this amendment that I have deposited has been written - deleted. Otherwise, it's the first amendment I've written – it's deleted. Basically, we didn't have enough time to focus on these problems. After later consultations with some members of the police service, there is another problem I would now like to propose to the minister because there is a possibility of separating these conditions. If, for example, we leave a condition or 52 years of age or 30 years of internship, because we have situations where the police are approached at 18 years of age. We have these certain workers who, at the age of 30, are age 48 and as such, re-establish that one of the characters to retire. I'd also like you to think about it. Maybe it's a separation, one good position, maybe that's a solution for this amendment would contribute a lot because if 30 years is really a lot for a person to do this job, we think that from their 48 years of age and 30 years of internship can achieve one of the conditions for retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32468	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32469	Our only problem is when we consider the possibilities of the pension system. We could have prescribed less, 25 years of effective internship and, say, 45 years of life. We could've retired her with 40 years of life. But basically, our pension system couldn't handle it. We have found a standard that meets the real needs of the MUP, that are still people who, and you'll agree, 52 years old, are still people who don't have so little or so many years, not even those who are for regular retirement, it takes men 65 years at this point. So, due to the special involvement of police officers and their special efforts during the service, we have proposed this measure as an optimal solution, something which at the moment meets the needs of the ministry, while allowing the pension system to withstand it, or that there is enough money to make them retire prematurely in full capacity. So, they don't lose a penny of their pension, while in regular terms you go to early retirement that's possible, but you pay your pens and pensions can be reduced, it seems to me, even up to 30%, I don't know exactly how it says in retirement law, which means your pension would be dramatically less if you went five, six, seven years early in retirement. Like this, you retire, you have a full pension, the state is grateful for what you've done for her, the needs of the MUP are met, and the pension system that number of employees in the MUP can handle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32470	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32471	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, dear colleagues, I believe that this amendment should be rejected, first because of what it says – deleted, without a proposal from the other. Secondly, I've consulted a lot about this law with members of the Home Office and I've seen that it's about their view that this is an optimum for both retirement and the number of years of internships and the number of years of age. If those people with experience think so, I think this is the right thing to do and I don't see why they should be doing anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32472	Thank you, Mr. Milosevic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32473	Thank you. The amendment that wants to change a member to be introduced the right to an exception should have given two answers, one of which was just given by a minister. So the introduction of a special right that makes an exception to the Law on PIO for members of police officers who have 52 years of life and 30 years of effective employment is that full pension is important. Since the member I submitted the amendment meant that it was determined by the Minister for Labour. That should not be determined by the Minister of Labour, but by this law. So, who is 52 years old and 30 years of employment, he has to retire. He can't decide if the other minister is in a dilemma whether or not he's being reduced or reduced or how it counts. What we're co-workers of Aleksandra Jerkov and I also wanted is something that will wait for us in a few years. For those of us who follow European integration and Euro-Atlantic integration, the provisions of the Law on Special Retirement, the Law on Extra Retirement, which was drastic in countries such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Romania, and some minor ones in countries such as Montenegro, Croatia and Slovenia. We haven't passed such a law specifically, especially about retirement, but it will wait for us. Then we'll have this provision that I'm talking about that police officer who worked on jobs that deserve an exception from the Disability and Retirement Act that he can't do similar jobs. They all had to bring such a squad, because it happened that suddenly you have informal, very influential, given consulting groups, gave groups that work parallel to the system, but in any case none of them useful for the rule of law in those societies. As in the case of previous amendments, this is not an amendment that, by accepting or refusing, changes my decision. I thank you for answering that police officers who are going to get the right under this law to retire at the age of 52, will have full pension. I hope that the application of this law, as it is the last amendment that we have submitted to Alexandera Jerkov and I, I hope that the application of this law will be both effective and detailed, and thorough, in the work and in the article that defines the reorganisation, the formation of a special ati-terrorist unit and the way of co-ordination. From the point of view of the legislator who is always trying to see who the law applies to, this is the most important member in this law, for all those who involve members of the security measure and special activity plans in the case of situations that no one likes to see in their own country. I hope there won't be an application, and police officers who, by this 52-year-old law, will retire happy and peaceful retirement, and invite them to the anniversary, and invite them to help you with the experience and work in the police reorganization in the work that is now planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32474	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32475	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected guests from the MUP, disagree with this part that an employee of the interior ministry who went on a well-deserved pension with 54 years of life can't do additional work while retired. Surely there is already a legislative regulation that clearly states what jobs they can do? Well, that way we won't expect them to be members of an anti-terrorist unit to establish a consulting house for anti-terrorist facts and hire people and make parallel units of that system. Or imagine, please, it looks trivial, but that one trafficker rents a private intersection and regulates traffic on it. These are certainly not the jobs we can expect these people to do. Why don't we hire a person who spent 20 and more years working with training dogs to establish an agency with additional training and training, for example for guide dogs, to save and improve our system. There are many honorable occupations that individuals can carry out through their experience, work, and knowledge, including various consulting houses, including various associations. So let's not make it impossible for them to do the job. Why is it that someone who spent 20 years in traffic, actively doing that job, can't start, say, a consulting house, an advisory house that won't be a parallel system. Therefore, we should enable them to work on sharing their experiences with young people and to be employed as long as they can do as doctors, economically, lawyers, and lawyers can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32476	Thank you, Dr. Rakonjac. The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go, Mr. Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32477	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since this is the last amendment and it's enough of that and my colleague Rakonjac has said before me what I intend to say, so I'm going to be very brief anyway. I believe that this amendment is not appropriate, i.e. it brings to the full the unequal position of police workers, because the moment when a police worker is 30 years old and 52 years old is entitled to retire, he must fully equalise himself with all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have gained the right to retire. Therefore, if other citizens who have done other jobs are not prohibited from continuing to do their jobs, whether it is engineering, legal, any other, I don't think in that case we should even prohibit police officers from doing any work that is in some way similar to that of the police. In any case, there are certain restrictions where some may be secret services and so on, it's already regulated by other laws, but also what Mrs. Rakonjac said, there's a lot that these workers can do. By doing so, to bring it into the law to ban them, it absolutely puts them in an unequal position with other Serbian citizens who are regularly retired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32478	Thank you, Mr. Mijatovic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32479	Thank you. Because of the argument of an unequal position of members who are put under this law to the exception that they can retire from 52 years of life and 30 years of training, it is unfair for all others who retire from 63, 65 and 40 years of training. So you're making an exception that you're introducing that some are more equal than others. The members of the service, members of the MUP police officers with full right, are placed in that we are all equal before retirement conditions, that some are more equal because of the nature of the business they are dealing with. I don't mind, on the contrary, deciding that people who are, and because they've been on these jobs for 30 years, to be told by law thanks you for protecting, protecting and serving. We know what the effort is, and that's why you're retired at 52 years old. But if I give you the right to retire at 52 years of age because your job is like that, to protect, protect and serve, I say similar jobs, there are serious reasons why it's good for a provision like this to be. Then don't do anything like that after. Because by that provision that I consider to be good, that the affairs of a police officer of the Ministry of the Interior special, so I know that this does not apply to all members of the Ministry of the Interior, these jobs are a source, that they are more equal before the decision to retire by law force than others mentioned here. I ask you to use your expressions carefully who is equal, who is unequal, because this argument shows that as if we are introducing all other people who need to retire to an unequal position in relation to members of the Ministry of the Interior, which is not true. Absolutely not. But because their job is the basic reason for them to be in a position to retire at 52 years old, I say - don't do a similar job. And that's the thing, I'll be able to, I'm absolutely sure, that colleagues who slow it down in a few years to read their stenograms, because then they'll support my amendment. But so it is with “sic transit Gloria Mundi” – who will not listen, he repeats, so when the time comes to listen, then supports something that I warn in time. I advise the government to accept it, because we'll get there sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32480	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32481	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, the respected representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, we have heard that police officers are privileged by this law. They're not privileged. The salary they earn is a salary of more than seven crusts. Business is worse than mining. That's what those who are family members, who have family and family cops. Therefore, they are not privileged at any single moment. They go on a well-deserved pension because their job requires it, according to statistics that say that cops have a shorter life span than other residents of the same age in other professions. Therefore, they deserve pensions as regulated by law. But let's not make it impossible for them, I'd ask my colleagues to shut up a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32482	I'm asking my colleagues to allow Mrs. Raconjac to complete the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32483	But let's not make it impossible for them to deal with things that are consistent with their calling, with their expertise and after they retire. We need to make a difference here. They don't go on disability pensions. They go on a pension they deserve under the law on persons who have an underprivileged job experience. Therefore, they can fully equalise, as well as other citizens, to carry out additional work after retirement. And when the time comes to make a law that will be regulated for members of the Ministry of the Interior, then we will sit down, discuss and make a good European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32484	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32485	I wasn't going to answer, but there are a few things I'd like to point out about this point. We talked on the board yesterday about a few things that mattered. First of all, when you look at the number of minor and severe bodily injuries that occur in one profession, you will realize that it is the officers who are exposed to it in their daily work. So, from one derby, maintaining public order and peace on the street, similar activities, you have people who are injured, whether they're stoned or pushed away, hit, etc. Of course, they're not foreign to the use of different types of weapons, including firearms. It's fortunate that we don't have a lot of news about any of the officers being tragically injured or seriously injured. But that kind of thing happens in this profession. And that's why people have to understand, when we're looking for early retirement for them, and only two years before their regular retirement, we're not looking for some kind of spectacular privilege. Plus, it's a need for service. That is the need of the Republic of Serbia. And they can't function, especially considering special forces. It's not human that, after all they've done for their country, we put these people in jobs where they either need someone to do them to stay there until they retire without essentially giving their contribution, or put them in jobs that they're not trained to do and they don't have enough knowledge to do these jobs. So I don't think this is any kind of discrimination, and as far as the workplace is concerned after this process is over, and other laws dealing with, say, detective activity, we can even say that it would be positive that police officers work in these companies, because of the knowledge of the law, the experience in applying the police authority and training they had until then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32486	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32487	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality of Svrljig, next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, Nis, and of course I will support this law and all this now said by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Dr Vesna Rakonjac, because I come from a family where my father was a police officer, a man who did his job with honor and honesty everywhere he was meant to be. As the son of a man who was in the field all the time, in all the parts of our Serbia where there were needs, I know how it was done and how it was done. I fully support this law that people, cops, people who have spent their entire working life on the ground, have done very hard and dangerous jobs, retire early. But people who are 52 years old, even more, can, according to their abilities, health and psychophysically, do all the jobs, so why couldn't the cops do it, or some of the others from that profession that went into retirement, when they could be done by medics, medical technicians, pharmaceutical technicians, etc. Let's just say, when some pharmaceutical tech retires, works at any private pharmacy, and a guy who graduated high school, a pharmacist, can't work? That's why I'm saying -- if any employee who retires can also work as a pensioner, why can't a cop who served this country and did the hardest things they needed? That is why I fully support this law and call on all MPs to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32488	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32489	I must wait patiently for the ovation of fellow Members of the Parliament to be completed and not to be left without an answer, with such a fiery speech and with such fiery support. A pharmaceutical technician doesn't retire at 52, he retires at 65. People's MPs earn – it doesn't matter. How can I tell you? Don't say it doesn't matter. It's an insult to the cops. It's an insult to the cops if you say it doesn't matter what he's doing at 52 years old, because he's retired from 52 years of age because of the kind of work he's been doing for 30 years. And she's supposed to be 52 years old. Will it please you to compare the incomparable? Will you consider it a reason to refuse amendments that a pharmaceutical technician who retires at 65 years of age is threatened by the fact that I propose an amendment to have an early police officer go to his full pension, he's right to go? It's up to you, I'd just like to remind you that I've already said it twice and to repeat it the third time, we'll talk about this again. I hope you will respond with the same joy, but not for the same reasons that you support fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Millie, from Srlig, and to the adoption of very similar provisions, if in the meantime you do not forget that something has been said here. The tendency in this congregation that it doesn't matter what they say is a dangerous activity because we here use the position of public words and public powers to share our argument, to share the facts and our position. So I'd like all of us to do it before we find out that it doesn't matter if you're a pharmaceutical technician or a cop who's worked 30 years in preparation for an anti-terrorist unit and then worked there, to think twice about what we're comparing, why and for what purpose. An ovation is always easy to earn, and it is good for a fellow MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32490	I thank Mrs. Komic, although I would like to ask you, Mr. Milletic is the People's MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is not there any Milija from Svrlig, so I ask you to address the MP with respect another time. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32491	I also want to thank all the MPs who spoke in favour of police officers, not only about the law of course, but about those people who do this hard work, and I just wanted to say, there's one crucial difference, immediately noticeable, that we don't get into professional labor, when you look at the difference between a pharmaceutical technician and a police officer. When you get into the pharmacy there's no, fortunately, on the walls of the pharmacy pictures of the dead pharmaceutical technicians. When you enter the police station there are these images that you realize how many people have given their lives for this country to be safe and safe, and in this sense these functions are indeed incomparable, so we give these people the opportunity that after 30 years of service, in difficult conditions, in years that have not been easy for Serbia, and fortunately go better and better, we give this opportunity which is not discrimination for others, but the opportunity for Serbia to say thank the people who have laid down and life for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32492	I thank Dr Stefanovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32493	Replica, very short. I just want to say and Mr. Secretary has already said that, I've mentioned a pharmaceutical technician, not with the intention of demeaning anyone. We all know when they say it's clean -- it's clean as a pharmacy. On the other hand, all people who work up to 63, or 65, do some jobs that are not difficult, burdensome, and, on the other hand, under the law 65 years in retirement. A cop who goes to 52 years retired or another authorised person who works at the police for 13 years is that for 30 years he's done a lot of hard work, I'm sure he'll have more power and opportunities to do some jobs than someone who's 65 years old. That's my argument, and I think this law is good and we should vote it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32494	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32495	Dear Chairman, this time I will speak only from the point of view of the profession. So the profession estimated that certain occupations due to the weight of the work that the worker performs have an unfettered internship. Ballerinas have an unfettered job experience. Should we forbid them to open ballet schools? Doctors who are employed in emergency care have an unfettered job experience. Should we forbid them to do their duty? Like I said, officers who are members of special units, anti-terrorist units and other specific units, otherwise they can't deal with private arrangements in these matters. Those you have cited as examples in Western European countries, if they have dealt with such matters, it is called corruption. That's the name he has. We'll make a law when it's time to hire our retired officers in accordance with the law to benefit the citizens and to be simply honorable citizens who are respected for the rest of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32496	Thank you, Mrs. Rakonjac. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Stojkovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Sanja Nikolic, Vladimir Petkovic, Milos Tosanic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32497	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to thank you on behalf of my colleagues and on behalf of the Government, the Honorable Minister for accepting the amendment. We have submitted an amendment that this law enters into force immediately, because for one human life a minute is important and a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-16-0.u32498	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Dear Members of the Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 16 July 2015, starting at 12.15 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I thank Mr. Stefanovic with his associates. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 157 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number is present and that there are conditions for deciding. I put to the vote a bill on the conversion of the right of use to property on building land with compensation, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – eight abstentions – nine of the 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 177 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 181 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, the Green Serbia Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 177 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 178 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Obrad Isailovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 185 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 4th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 181 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic and MP Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 170 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 177 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 182 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 184 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Balša Bozovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 179 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 179 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and, with correction, MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – no one, with abstention – voted 18 of the 18 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćiric, Vesna Martinovic and Aida Ćorovic and a group of nine MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 182 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic and Aida Ćorovic together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new member and member of 19a be added after article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and a group of five MPs from the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 182 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 22a be added after article 22. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill on turning the right of use into property rights on building land with compensation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – 13 abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the bill on the conversion of the right of use to property on building land with compensation. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on the cancellation of the consequences of payments in the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floodes in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – nine, abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of nine MPs of the BORIS TADIĆ Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 181 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the BORIS TADIĆ Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – 14 abstentions – there are no, five of the 189 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly justified reasons for the law being represented in force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Elimination of Floodes in the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, v – 14 abstentions – no, four of the 189 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill amending the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Law I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 184 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – voted 181 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the BORIS TADIĆ Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by a group of nine MPs from the BORIS TADIC Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 178 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 186 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – 11 abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 187 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on police in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183 against – one abstention – there are no, three of the 187 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I would like to remind you of the provision of Article 103(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on July 13th 2015, at 10:20 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this injury to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 170 of the total of 183 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 15 July 2015, at 14.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this injury to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Janko Veselinović, at a session on 15 July 2015, at 15.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this injury to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr Alexander Jerkov, at a session on 15 July 2015, at 15.50 pm, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this injury to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babić, at a session on 15 July 2015, at 15.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this injury to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against – seven, abstentions – there is no vote, 159 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 15 July 2015, at 16.40 p.m., pointed to injuries from members 107 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this injury to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, not 160 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 16 July 2015, at 11.00 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this injury to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – six, abstentions – there is no vote of 157 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
