ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36375	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, please insert your identification cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that Members of Parliament are today prevented from attending: Momo Colaković, Miroljub Stankovic, Nada Lazic, Diana Vukomanovic and Marjana Maras. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the 9th and 10th points of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Branka Bančević, election member of the High Council of the Judges and Vesna Janjica, independent adviser at the Department of Status Affairs Judges of the High Council of the judiciary. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192(3) and Article 201(2) and Article 202(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the termination of office of the President of the Chamber of Commerce and a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office. Does the representative of Proposer Branko Bancevic, an election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges, want a word? The word is Branka Bančević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36376	President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, the High Council of the Judiciary has sent you a motion for a decision on the termination of office of Dejan Cojbasic, President of the Chamber of Commerce, as the reasons set out in Article 74(1) have been obtained. The law on judges, as Judge Dejan Cojbasic was elected judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. By taking office as judge of the Belgrade Chamber of Appeals, conditions have been met to stop him from serving as president of the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36377	Thank you. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36378	I thank you, President. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group, as well as doubtless all MPs of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, have no reason not to support the proposals of the Supreme Council of the judiciary we are discussing today, especially given the importance with so-called. the procedural and legal aspect of the obligation to make these decisions, so that the functions and holders of judicial functions can normally work and be placed in the places for which they are elected. What is important to point out and what the SPS parliamentary group has consistently supported and on this principle insisting from the very beginning is that the best-quality are elected to the most responsible places in the judiciary, and as it is the courts of the Republic, this is the Court of Commerce, we must point out that it is a good and quality solution. In order for this quality solution to come true and in practice and prove to be justified, it is normal for us, as MPs of the republican parliament, to decide that Mr Dejan Cojbasic, as president of the Chamber of Commerce, to establish the termination of office, or to determine the termination of office, given that he was elected to the Economic Court of Appeal. What I think citizens should also know is what needs to be addressed as a political message from here, without the intention of discriminating in any way any court, is the fact that the commercial judiciary is one of the pillars of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia and that it is undoubtedly one elite part of the judicial system, given the matter it faces, given the gravity of the work it is doing, given the indisputable facts that relate to work, above all, the Privilege Court of Appeal in Belgrade, which is to the satisfaction of the primarily built who expect full degree of legal certainty and access to justice, managed to resolve a number of cases, particularly in the most sensitive matter of economic justice and commercial law, which is bankruptcy. The reminders for the sake of courage, so to speak, the Judge of the Court of Appeals, consist of the fact that judges no longer slave to established court practice, which has been overcome since 10, 15 and 20 years ago, overcome both in time and in fact and made decisions that not only fit the time, but which in some way contribute to stabilising the entire economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. This is also indicated by the fact that decisions related to “Azotara”, “Petrochemical” and many other items representing so-called “Azotara”. Neuralgia dots. Given that these cases have been successfully solved and solved, one environment has been created very favourable for investors to invest in the Republic of Serbia, that now both "Azotara" and "Petrochemia" and the entire complex that was on edge, on the verge of collapse, can now appear as one credible business area, in which an investment can be carried out. What seems good to me, and we in the parliamentary group as a quality support, is the fact that Mr. Dejan Cojbasic and as the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Cacak were doing his job in quality, that the Chamber of Commerce in Cačka justified the epithet of a high-quality court in which all judges met according to all the criteria of what they were expected, both from the degree of urgency, i.e. the successful decision-making of the case, and the quality of court decisions, i.e. an extremely small number of abolished court decisions. So Belgrade's Business Court of Appeal no doubt receives one quality piece. In this direction, the High Council of the Judiciary by the SPS Group has unreserved support in this way of selecting candidates for judges, because it is doubtless that those criteria on which we have been insisting from the very beginning are criteria which are primarily afirmic to quality, rather than to the aphirmist as a judicial worker who will carry out his work not only on an up-to-date basis and not simply slave to have as many cases as possible, but to show the maximum quality of his work, i.e. his expertise, and therefore also his professionalism and responsibility for making such decisions. We are convinced that Mr. Dejan Cojbasic, as the new judge of the Court of Commerce, will continue to justify exactly what I said, and that is – all the professional references that a judge must have and what qualified him, and that is the dignity to perform a judicial, or judicial function. Finally, I would like to point out once again one consistent and principled position of the SPS parliamentary group, that we really, in some ways, can honestly say, are dissatisfaction that we must always discuss the holders of judicial functions and that we are participating when making decisions on their reception. For what? Because in this way there is no way to talk about the absolute independence of the judiciary. As soon as parliament is involved in any way in making decisions on the choice of judges, we automatically have a situation that the judiciary has not received full autonomy. Oversight over the work of the High Council of Justice should undoubtedly exist, but I think that participation in the election of judges should be left exclusively to the judges and this is indeed the principled position of the SPS parliamentary group in which parliament will free itself of mortgages that in any way in political terms words participates in making decisions on the choice of legal holders. Indeed, you have maximum support. I am convinced that all MPs will support such proposals, because it is in everyone's interest, and particularly in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, that they have a quality judiciary, that they always have access and access to justice in an adequate way, that they feel legal certainty and that justice is expected to make quality judicial decisions that all of this I've said is raised to one pedestal, which is that Serbia must have what the EU requires to become a permanent member of the EU and in this way both chapters 23 and 24 have been successful and open and closed, and we have proved that we have managed to recover the judiciary, because the situation in the judiciary has been sick for a long time and thus stabilised one of the pillars of power, which is judicial authority. I thank you, and once again on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I only express my support for these proposals, which the High Council of the judiciary has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36379	Thank you. Any of the other authorities report back? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36380	Thank you. Madam President, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished colleague Nedjo Jovanovic said what we in the SNS parliamentary group think, which is that the Supreme Council of the judiciary has full, unreserved support of the SNS parliamentary group, which will say as the largest and most popular parties for many years. That means we're satisfied with what you're doing. What you suggested today is only one part, and that is that we determine the termination of the office of the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Chačka and nothing more. To decide that he will no longer be the president of that court, but not in the sense that we are talking about it today, that we are discussing it, but that we are making one decision that is a declarative character that we are establishing a state of mind, which is that this President of the Court is concerned about his merits, because of his knowledge, expertise, skills, dignity chosen as the Judge of the Court of Auditors, which means that he has shown very envious results that you, as the High Council of Justice, have recognized. So today, we are not deciding that he will be elected Judge of the Court of Commerce, but we are merely realizing that he is no longer the President of the Chamber of Commerce. In this sense, it comes to the separation of what we in parliament, that we as elected representatives of Serbian citizens, or politicians, however anyone understands it, decide on the fate of the judiciary, to decide as we once did in Serbia before 2012, and when we had a situation to send opinions from Vlasotin to certain judges, to certain prosecutors, to whom we should choose, who should not, who is close, whose sister-in-law is good with someone from DS, whose sister-in-law is not good, who satisfies, who rejects criminal charges against DS officials, etc., etc. We now have one situation that finally happens and something in this party, which is that Mr. Borko Stefanovic is asking his party to apologize to Serbian citizens for the disastrous reform of the judiciary, because of the shame they have caused Serbia. I expect the party to do so and I expect Mr Stefanovic to continue in this sense, because I know that this has happened and I know that this has not happened since 2012 or will happen. You have full freedom. We don't influence your decisions in any way. None of the candidates come to SNS, they don't come to any other MPs, because they know they can't expect help, they know we don't decide in that sense. We leave it to all of you, according to the Rules of Procedure adopted on the work of the High Council of the Judiciary, to establish the criteria and criteria, to form committees, to examine the dignity, the training of all those people who have applied for, to ask for the opinion of those institutions in which they worked, if they are in court, then from that court and directly higher court, from the colleges of the judges they worked with, to see how they acted at the university and with which average assessment they came out, whether they passed a judicial exam with distinction, how they worked for all this time, and this is the finals of what you did. Keep it that way, and in the day of the vote we will give full support and we will find that the resignation is due to the transition to another function, the fastest said, and the resignation, that is, to the office of the Judge of the Court of Commerce, is actually an honor for the gentleman whom you have proposed and we will support him in the day of voting with our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36381	No more registered by authorised representatives. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. He doesn't want to. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not a problem that we're choosing new judges and it's nice to choose someone who's making progress, but when it comes to the justice problem that happened in 2009, and when I think a party has established its judiciary in a coalition, and we need to slowly correct it. At that time, as I recall, a dead judge was elected. Being dead wasn't proof enough that he wasn't fit to perform his duties as a judge. The fact that he wasn't erased from one party was stronger than what he died. As long as he was alive for the party, he had to be alive and for the judiciary and then they simply chose him, even though the man was not among the living for several months. I don't think the judges were chosen at the time by some professional basis, that they were chosen by political resemblance, and that they were pointed out, that they were proven in party membership, in party obligations, that they had never ruled against any former member of the regime that at the time selected our judiciary. It is very favourable when someone is progressing because of their expertise, but it should also be said that in certain courts, in certain judicial units, and I had the opportunity to make sure that what was selected in 2009, that it was chosen by some party basis, in one court, in one judicial unit by the same thing, the two judges made different decisions. Either there's something wrong with the judges or there's something wrong with the laws. Since the laws are unique, since I don't think there's a problem with the laws, I don't think our citizens, first of all, are experiencing justice in a court of law. So, the court is here to establish the truth, and since 2009 was a reform of the judiciary, we are still not in a position to deliver that kind of justice and justice to our citizens. There's a big difference between justice and justice, but worst of all, our courts are not in a position to establish the truth. Finally, to avoid debt, I will say that I hope that in the future we will be able to correct, if it can be corrected, everything that was done badly in 2009, and I will tell our citizens that they have no problem with the laws, which is my impression, they already have a problem with the judges, especially those who were chosen in a party way in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36383	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honored guests from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, respected National Assembly President Mrs. Gojkovic, I now have a dilemma here, and I think perhaps you can resolve this dilemma for me. As I understand it, we are now discussing in the framework of a joint single search on two points, point 9, which is -- the termination of the office of President Dejan Cjovisic, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Point 10. – Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office with the explanations and biography of the proposed candidates and candidates. I have heard here from distinguished guests of information related to the 9th agenda of our session, the Honorable President Mrs. Gojkovic, but I have not heard in any sentence any information on what is contained in the item on the 10th agenda, and we here have a joint single search on these two points of the agenda. I believe, gentlemen, that the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office is a very important topic for all of us MPs, for our guests from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as, gentlemen, for all citizens and citizens of our Republic. I think, given the importance of this topic, I think it is necessary that our guests and I now invite our guests, however, a little bit more here to tell us about candidates and candidates who are first elected to the judge's office. Dear gentlemen, I must remind all of us here that the judge's office is one of the most important functions here, that the subpoena is one of the most important calls. It's enough, gentlemen, to remind ourselves of some members of our Constitution, for example. Article 142, which states in one position – courts are independent, independent in their work, judges based on the Constitution, the law, other general acts, when provided for by law, generally accepted rules of international law and certified international contracts, and in Article 145, gentlemen, to confirm the importance of this topic, and then the importance of our decision to select certain candidates and certain candidates for the first time in a judicial capacity, Article 145, which speaks of judicial decisions. These decisions will be addressed by these people when they're elected. In article 145, it says - court decisions are made on behalf of the people. He then says – court decisions are based on the Constitution, the law, a confirmed international contract, a regulation adopted under the law. The court ruling may only be reviewed by the competent court in a lawfully prescribed procedure. So the first person to be elected to a judicial office has a huge responsibility. To call the judge, we bind the terrible characteristics and characteristics of the people who choose to function. I find, gentlemen, unsuitable, that when we have to decide who will be elected for the first time at the judge's office, we don't hear a single sentence from the biography of these candidates and candidates that we don't know who these people are, but that we judge here on the basis of what came as a biography, that citizens and citizens who are certainly interested. Here, in Leskovac, or in Lebanon, dear Mr. Arsic, for example. To hear who these judges who were first elected can't hear anything today about it. I think, gentlemen, that because of these candidates and candidates, there are nine of them, who certainly see this day as one solemn day for themselves, for their professional careers, which I assume are people of certain personal authority, professional integrity, that they also hear a few words, a sentence based on which we can vote for them. Here, I will mention at least the names of these people, that they too hear their name, that citizens know who will be elected: Natasa Vasiljkovic, Aleksandar Girić, Ljiljana Marjanović Andric, Jelena Stamenkovic, Jelena Stankovic, are proposing for the first time to choose for the post in Leskovic. In Leban: Sasa Dimitrijevic, Tatjana Jovicevic, Natalija Nedeljkovic, Bojana Stevanovic. Dear gentlemen, it is not enough to mention only the names of these people. It is very important, given the importance and importance of their function to point out the principles, the importance of this call, that these people also get another reminder of what awaits them in future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36385	Thank you, MP. Just a note for the public, as you said. Everyone has a biographies of proposed candidates...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36386	Let's discuss the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36387	They all have secrets, so there's no secrets.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36388	Let's hear who these people are, what qualifications they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36389	The proposaler's representative will once again read what you already have. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: He can expand his lab a little more. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36390	There's really been a technical error. I understood that the united proposal for the selection of judges for these two courts, and that the special point of the agenda, is the termination of office. That's the only thing, so I've been waiting all this time for this point to come up on the agenda, so I'm going to bring out the shortest information on both these ads and candidates who've submitted their applications to the ads. Therefore, the High Council of the Judiciary has called an ad for the selection of judges for the basic court in Leskovac, which was published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 30/2015. On 27 March 2014, for the full of five judicial posts. That ad was registered by 75 candidates, and no one, in the court's order, registered 52 candidates, from the five candidates, from the other 21 candidates. For an advertisement at the Court of First Instance, for the selection of judges in Leban, which was published in the same "Official Messenger" for the completion of four Judges, 51 candidates applied to that ad. In the order of the judges, two candidates, from the order of the 25 candidates, from the five candidates, from the other 19 candidates. The High Council of the Court is in the process of proposing candidates to elect judges, on the basis of Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS made a decision on the education of committees to elect judges, whose task was to carry out checks on submitted applications for advertising, to determine their completeness, their timelyness, to hold talks with candidates who applied for the election for judges and to assess whether candidates meet the criteria and criteria for the election. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Law on Judges, the VSS has obtained opinions for all candidates on expertise, skills, dignity for the exercise of high office. For the candidates coming from the courts, the opinion of the session of all the judges of the court from which the candidate originates, as well as the opinion of the session of all judges directly to the High Court. For candidates who do not work in the court, an opinion on professionalism, skills, dignity for the exercise of judicial office by the authorities and organisations in which the candidates work, and the opinion of the bar in whose register the lawyers are registered, has been obtained for the candidates in the line of attorneys. The selection committee has held talks with all candidates who have submitted applications for these ads. On the basis of Article 13(3), At its meeting on 4 September 2015, the VSS Law established a proposal for a decision to elect judges and proposed a selection of nine candidates to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by Vasiljković Natasa, a judge in the Higher Court of Leskovac, proposes to elect a judge for the basic court in Leskovac. You have received reasoned proposals for all candidates, I will only briefly state that Vasiljković Natasa was born in 1970, that the Faculty of Law ended in Kragujevac in 1977 with a general success of 6.47, after completing the law school established a working relationship as a judicial intern and later continued to work in the judiciary. The judicial exam was passed in 2000, followed by a working relationship in the District, now the Senior Court in Leskovac as a judicial assistant in calling a judicial associate and later a senior judicial associate. She worked on all kinds of matter. We asked for reviews of her work for 2012, 2013 and 2014 and we received data that in all three years she has been evaluated with an evaluation – it is particularly noted. She's a part of a number of seminars. It is supported by the judges in which the court is working and also by judges of a directly higher court. The second candidate is Giric Aleksandar, a judicial assistant at the Higher Court in Leskovac, who was proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Leskovac. He was born in 1974 in Leskovec. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Nis in 2003 with a general average of 6.38. He then established a working relationship as an intern at the Municipality court in Leskovac, and since May 2004, he has been admitted to a working relationship at the District Court in Leskovac for a certain period of time. He passed the judicial exam in 2006, after which he established a working relationship at the District Court in Leskovac at the workplace of a judicial assistant in calling a judicial associate. Since 2008, he has received a call from a senior judicial associate. He worked on various materials, mostly in criminal matter. He was also doing court spokesman's work. For the results achieved in these three years for which we have asked for estimates, it has also been assessed with an assessment – particularly said. He also attended several courses, training, seminars and has the support of the judges in which he works, as well as the judge of a directly higher court. The third candidate is Marijanović Andric Ljiljana. She is a beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy and she was proposed to elect judges for the basic court in Leskovac. She was born in 1982 in Leskovec. The study ended in Nis in 2008 with a general success of 9.94. After graduating from college, she worked as a lawyer intern in Nis, then as a judicial intern at a court in Nis from 2009 to 2011, the judicial exam was passed in 2011. He's a doctoral student at the Faculty of Law in Nis. She passed her entrance exam at the Judicial Academy in 2011. She finished law school with an average score of 4.94. He is part of a large number of seminars, scientific research projects. She has been on various study visits and, according to the Director of the Judicial Academy, she absolutely fulfils the conditions for performing the function to which she is proposed. The fourth candidate is Stamenkovic Jelena, the judge's assistant at the basic court in Leskovac, and is proposed to elect judges for the basic court in Leskovac. She was born in 1979. The basic studies ended in Nis in 2004 with a general success of 8.51. After completing college, she performed a traineeship at the Court of Vlasotinc as a volunteer first, and since 2006, working relationship for three years, as a judicial intern at the Trade Court in Leskovec. The judicial exam was passed in 2009, followed by a working relationship at the primary court in Leskovac at the post of judicial assistant. For the results achieved, there are also estimates for 2012 and 2013 – it is particularly prominent, while for 2014 it has not been evaluated since it was on maternity leave. As a judicial intern at the Trade Court in Leskovac, she also participated in numerous consultations and seminars, organised by the JSD, on various projects for judicial assistants and judges up to three years of judicial training. According to the Judges of the Higher Court in Leskovac and the Basic Court in Leskovac, it absolutely meets all the criteria for choosing this function. The fifth candidate is Stankovic Jelena, a judicial assistant at the basic court in Leskovac, who is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Leskovac. She was born in 1978. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Nis in 2003 with an average score of 8.10. After completing the university, the traineeship carried out in a court in Leskovac as a volunteer, to work as a judicial intern for a period of time between 2005 and 2006. The judicial exam was passed in 2005, followed by a working relationship at the post of judicial assistant at the Municipality Court in Leskovac, where it was held from 10 April to 10 July 2006. Then, he works as a prosecutor's assistant at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac from January to December 2007 and then as a judicial assistant at the Trade Court in Leskovac, from October to December 2009. Since August 2010, she has been in a working relationship at the basic court in Leskovec, where she was first deployed to the outside department, later in the executive department, where she is now. It also acts on complaints referred to in the cases for execution. In late 2011 and 2012, she also served as court spokesman. For the results achieved in 2012, 2013 as well as in 2014, it was assessed by the highest estimates and, according to the opinion of the session of all judges of the General Court in Leskovac and the Higher Court in Leskovac, it meets absolutely all the criteria for the selection of the judge of the Basic Court in Leskovac. As for the main court in Leban, the first candidate is Dimitrijevic Saša, a judicial assistant at the primary court in Leskovac, who was proposed to elect a judge for the Lebane General Court. Dimitrijevic Sasa was born in 1973 in Leskovec. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Nis in 2004 with an average success of 7.81. The traineeship was carried out in the Municipality Court of Vlasotince, November 2004 until 24 November 2006, where it was deployed in criminal and non-partisan matter. He passed the judicial exam in 2007, after which he founded a working relationship in the Municipality Court of Vlasotince, at the workplace of a judicial assistant from 2008 to 2009, and since 2010, he was deployed to the General Court in Leskovec, where he acted in non-partisan matter, primarily in desert matter. He's calling a judicial associate, and later he's a senior judicial associate. We also have for him for these three years, for which we have asked for the grades, the grades – especially the ones that stand out. According to the judge of the basic court in Leskovac and the Supreme Court in Leskovac, this candidate fulfils all the conditions necessary to be elected to office. The second candidate for the Lebane General Court is Jovicevic Tatjana, a judicial assistant at the main court in Leskovac. She was born in 1969 in Novi Pazar. The study ended in Kragujevac in 1995 with a general success of 7.36. A traineeship carried out at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar from August 1995 to February 1998. She passed the judicial exam in 1997. The working relationship was founded at the District Court in Leskovac in 1998 at the workplace of a judicial assistant, calling a judicial associate, where she worked at the Second Grade Criminal Council until 30 November 1998. From 1998 to 2009, she worked at the Municipality court in Leskovec, calling a senior judicial associate where she acted in the matter of guilt, general litigation, execution and abandonment. In 2010, she was deployed to the primary court in Leskovec, where she worked the abandoneds. There are also grades in these three years – especially the ones that stand out. It has the support of all the judges of the primary court in Leskovac, as well as the judge of the Higher Court in Leskovac in this sense to meet all the conditions to be elected judge of the primary court in Leban. The next candidate is Nedeljkovic Natalija. Judge's assistant at the Lebana Court of Fundamental Court, which was proposed as judge for the Lebana General Court. Nedeljkovic Natalija, born in 1979 in Lebanon. Basic studies ended in Pristina in 2001 with a general success of 6.64. The legal exam was passed in 2005. After graduating from college, she performed a traineeship at the Lebana Municipal Court in the period from 2002 to 2005, and worked as a secretary at Leban Elementary School from 25 December 2006 to 2007. From 1 April 2008 to July 2010, on the basis of a work contract, she also served as a consultant at the Republic Geodesy Institute, the Katastre Office. Then, from 3 August 2010 to 2013, she worked as a judicial assistant at the primary court in Leskovac, and from 2014 on the basic court of Lebana, where she worked alongside the abandonment procedure in a criminal emergency council, the IPV Council, with a judge for the previous proceedings and works as a court-law. For her, we have also received reviews of the work, which are "particularly prominent" for all three years. According to a session of all the judges of the General Court of Lebana and all the judges of the Great Court in Leskovac, it meets all the criteria for selecting a judge for the Court of Justice in Leban. The last candidate is Stevanović Bojana, a judicial assistant at the basic court in Leskovac, who was proposed to elect a judge for the main court in Leban. She was born in 1976 in Leskovec. Basic studies ended in Pristina in 2003, with a general success of 7.24. After graduating from college, she worked at the Municipality Court of Leskovac, as a volunteer intern, and then from October 2003 to July 2005, to establish a working relationship as a court intern for a certain time. In 2007, she passed the judicial exam, after which she continued to work at the Municipality Court in Leskovac until May 2008. Based on her work contract, she was also engaged by the Republic Geodetic Office, the Katastre Service, where she worked on property affairs. The working relationship was founded on 2 August 2010, at the workplace of a judicial assistant and has been deployed to act in non-partisan matter. The annual schedule for 2014 has been allocated to judicial practices for criminal matter. We also have a score for 2012, 2013 and 2014 "in particular it stands out". According to a session of all the judges of the main court of Lebana and a session of the Supreme Court in Leskovac, it meets all the conditions prescribed by law to be elected judge of the primary court in Leban.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36391	Thank you. As it is no longer on the list of MPs, before the search is concluded, I ask if representatives of the parliamentary groups, as referred to in Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, they want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36392	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to let the public of Serbia know that representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, representing those who will be resolved, have separated those who will be elected today. By using that logic, they thought that we would discuss in one part of this, the termination of the office of President of the Court of Commerce in Cačka, and then the second part or the second point on the choice of judges who were first elected to office as judges. The next logic, I also focused in my opening statement only on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Commerce because of going to another post, i.e. because of the elections in the Economic Court of Appeal, and I did not say a word about judges who were elected for the first time. There has been a newspaper since 2012, since SNS has been the government of the Republic of Serbia, we have not had a prime minister at the time, but in this part of the judiciary, absolutely nothing has changed in these three years. It has only changed that the election of these judges no longer needs DS opinion, no party's opinion is needed, no MP from this parliament is required. By 2013, some of the candidates were trying to make contact with us MPs, thinking that the time that was the same and that nothing had changed, and then they slowly realized that we had no influence, that we do not want any influence on the choice of judges, that our opinion and our position can be expressed only in this session, but that attitude can be voted or do not vote for the proposals that you give us. Given that the procedure has been adopted from the call for competitions to your proposal, that the procedure takes several months, that it is multi-stage, that it is transparent and that anyone who has completed a law school and has passed a judicial exam can run, that they all have to file neat documentation, that the VSS, in agreement with the regulation, forms a committee that examines the documentation that is being submitted, examines each of the candidates, that is to say, in order not to interview them directly, to determine what kind of candidate they are working on. In addition, all other documents will go: completed law school, average assessment, passed judicial examination with distinction or not, opinion of the sitting of the court in which he works or the state body in which he is employed, or directly higher court, and if he comes from a lawyer's office, the opinion of the lawyer's chamber to which that lawyer belongs. After that, a decision is made by the VSS, and that decision is made in writing. Each of the MPs sitting in this hall, and most of them not sitting, are somewhere on other jobs, but SNS MPs in the good part fill this hall and almost always give the quorum, of course our coalition partners, while those in opposition, who were in power until 2012, show their lack of interest by not having them in this room, we get this decision, we get names and last names, we get complete biographies. And what I am looking forward to is that for the basic court in Leskovec and the Court of Justice in Lebanon, mostly the judicial assistants are proposed, which means that these people, these persons, these graduates with the legal exam already identified themselves as the judiciary, have already decided to be part of the judiciary, want to judge on behalf of the people, have gained experience besides people who have been doing this job for years, and these people who have been doing this work for years, the judges have given their opinion on these candidates to particularly point out that they have advocated in the previous period. The only thing that is remarkable is that one candidate, Marjanovic Ljiljana, is not a judicial assistant, but is a user of the initial training of the judicial academy, which has an average of 9.94. It's something to be commended for, to admire, but at the same time it doesn't mean that those who are proposed on your part, and have an average of 6,87-6,40, there won't be any good judges. No guarantee is what kind of average you have in college and what kind of a man you're going to become, what a graduate lawyer you're going to become, what a judge, prosecutor or lawyer you're going to be. A lot of other things have to come out to make you a good judge. A lot of good things in life you have to do, to keep perfecting yourself, to be better from day to day than you were yesterday, to be worthy of your functions, to be able to use that expertise you acquired in college in the best way possible, because in every judgment, every solution in the court writes on behalf of the people. I expect these people, these candidates for judges in voting day, and I think it'll be Friday, to be elected from our side. I have a guarantee from my parliamentary group that they will support your motion for a decision. For these candidates, on behalf of both the SNS and the SNS parliamentary group, I want success in the work, I want them to be independent, to work neither by their grandmother nor by their uncles, not to pay attention to who is a member of which political parties and that they are absolutely not interested. They have to act like the people we chose here as judges, who we trusted, and they gave us the trust of the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, each of these elected judges has a responsibility to each citizen of the Republic of Serbia when making any court decision, and from Monday they will make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36393	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36394	Madam President, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the distinguished ladies of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as far as the Single Serbia parliamentary group is concerned, we will normally accept the resignation of the President of the Chamber of Commerce. Under the circumstances, he resigns because he was elected by the High Council of the Judiciary after an open competition for the Court of Auditors in Belgrade and by law, such procedure must be followed by the second decision and we cannot make it, and as regards the decision on the election of judges first elected in the Court of Justice in Leban and the Court of Justice in Leskovac, I can also say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the Proposal for a decision of the High Court of Justice. Since, as chairman of the Committee, I took part in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary when the decision was made, I can say that the decision was taken unanimously. What surprises me is that some respected colleagues and colleagues from this high home seem to have not read the material, because in the material delivered to all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is a biography for each candidate, so that it says there when they were born and when they finished college and what average they have and where they work, etc. But it is good that Mrs Branka Bančević read again what she already has in the material, because I am sure that the viewers from the area of Subotica, Backa Palanca, Vršca, Šapca, Loznice, Majdanpek, Bora, Kladova, Pogorjevac, Smedereva, etc., were very closely monitored when a candidate was born, when he graduated from college, which was his average in college. I'm just afraid those viewers who followed it when there was a fifth candidate that had already forgotten when the first candidate was born. But there's another technical possibility, and that's that every citizen of this country can access the Council of Justice's website and see all the information he's interested in about every candidate. I can also say to conclude that the High Judicial Council appreciates the work of every candidate who applies to any first-election contest in any basic court and based on the assessment of that earlier result, the assessment of the length of study, the assessment of the college's peers where he works, the decision is made. The Commission has previously held a conversation with each candidate and that one proposal to the High Council, the High Council Commission, is just to know what committee it is, and that the proposal to the High Council of the judiciary which, with a certain proposal, comes before us by Members of Parliament and these are judges who are first elected, so-called three-year-olds whose work is estimated at the end of the third year of their work as judges and afterwards the High Council makes a final decision whether to remain judges or not to remain judges. It depends on their work. According to my conclusion, as far as the Single Serbia Parliament Club is concerned, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has full support and we will vote in favour of the motion for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36395	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36396	I would like to thank the President. Given that other authorised representatives have also set out according to a well-intentioned proposal by counterpart Pavicevic to read the biographies of candidates for the holders of judicial functions that are first elected for a three-year period. Given the fact that their biographies have been read, and given the position I have expressed on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I would like to add just one more sentence. We doubtless believe that the High Council of the Judiciary is in line with the criteria applied to the assessment of work, as well as with the criteria respected in the selection of candidates for judicial office holders who are first elected for a three-year period, respected those criteria, then there is absolutely no reason to comment on any candidate of any of the proposed candidates who are elected in this way, which is why, as I said at the very beginning, there is full support for the High Judicial Council. And those who, on the basis of our decision, will undoubtedly be elected as holders of judicial functions, stand by our trust in their work, because this trust will have to be justified by practical action, practical work, and are already shown by our choice, and based on the proposal that you made today by the High Council of the Judiciary. Thank you again, support to the High Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36397	Thank you. Since the lists are no longer registered, I am concluding a joint single search. Thank you. We can move on to the next item of the agenda, and this is a joint single search on the following summary list of candidates for the first half of the members of the National Consultative Council on the six-year period and a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Council on Higher Education Please, Members of Parliament, if they have not already made that application immediately with the order of Members of Parliament. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint single search on the summary list of candidates for the selection of the first half of the members of the National Educational Council over a period of six years and a proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Higher Education. Does a representative of the promoter, the MP of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36398	Thank you, Madam President. So it's two decisions, and I'm going to start with this second one, it's about the discharge of Professor Dr Dusan Nikolic as a member of the National Council for Higher Education at his personal request. According to Professor Dusan Nikolic, he was elected head of the Novosad University and therefore is no longer able to comply with the law to serve as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Then when we determine this resignation, the University of Novi Sad will propose a new member of the National Council for Higher Education, so it should be expected that they will, and I believe that in a very short period, there will be a point on the agenda of the Assembly. The second item of the agenda in this single search is the selection of those members of the National Educational Council, which expired on 18 March 2015. It is about members who propose SANA from the order of academics of the regular professors of the university, Matica Sr., University of Belgrade, University of Nis, University of Kragujevac, Association of Teachers of Serbia, Association of Doctors of Serbia, Association of Geographical Society, Association of Physicians of Serbia, Serbian Chemical Society, Serbian Philosopher's Society, Association of Fine Arts Pedagogists of Serbia, Association of Facultys of Physical Culture and the Association of Serbian Psychologists, as well as representatives of the community of secondary schools and trade unions for the work of education. As a committee, we have sent a summary list to the National Assembly. All promoters except SANU have proposed more candidates than is elected, so we will indeed play an electoral role in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not only as we had in the case of the National Council for Higher Education to confirm the proposals that the proposings made. I only have two small interventions, so please, MPs and service to pay attention when it comes to the candidate whom I propose the Pedagogic Council for Physical Culture under the regular number 3. writes – Milan Pasic, and in fact it is Milan Panic, so there is only one change to be made. And, a proposal from Belgrade University, the same candidate under regular number 3. - Professor Alexander Bauca, it's about Alexander Baucer. Alexander Baucer is at stake, so only when MPs are determined to take care of those personalities, not as they are in the material. That's it. I will report later as an authorised representative of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36399	Thank you. You were the reporter of the board of directors? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Yes, I will contact you later as an authorised representative. All right. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36400	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to comment on this proposal in front of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia. First of all, I would like to say that this advice, which was first elected in 2009, namely the first half of the members, had some shortcomings in work, but also played a significant role in defining strategies and general direction of development. The first period expired on 18 March of this year, and in Article 13. The Law on the founding of the education and education system is foreseen that the proposings, the authorised proposings, submit proposals for candidates four months before the end of this term of office. So, that was the deadline of November 18th last year, and of course, I have to point out that the Assembly Committee did this perfectly, and a month before that he referred to all the proposings, these are, as the distinguished colleague Jerkov said, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, universities, Matica Serbian and a large number of associations and societies, which deal with various areas of education, so that these proposals should have arrived. Unfortunately, this took a little longer and we only considered the proposals on 15 January this year at the Committee's session, and we concluded that the proposals, not only of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, but of companies and organisations, are dominated by university teachers who are members of these respective societies, have a reputation, so of course they are proposed. They felt that this was not the role of the Council and that representation was satisfied, so the authentic interpretation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was requested, so that all of this moved the procedure. Fortunately, the Committee made a relatively quick decision and we adopted authentic interpretation at the Assembly on April 15th, so that it could continue with the procedure. Unfortunately, although calls were immediately made to those who did not comply with this interpretation again became difficult, late, there were no appropriate proposals, but still the final list was formed at the Committee session on 8 June. What do you say at the end of this procedure? The problem is that seven months, if we count on Friday to be a vote or tomorrow, we'll be seven months late with the election of the new half-members, which is still a very important long period, if we have in mind what was on the agenda of the Assembly and the Law on textbooks and that strategies, new laws are being prepared, so it's very bad. On the other hand, we have an authentic interpretation, and hopefully in the next period, there will be no need to lose three or four months of this interpretation and that all associations of the association will propose candidates as provided for by law, or authentic interpretation, so that the space will be reduced, or the procedure will be respected, that we will have the composition of the National Council in time. It is, I felt that it was necessary to say what problem the Committee was facing and how some societies, including institutions, did not respect the requirements, but it is a form, it is a technical part. As far as the essence is concerned, dear colleague Jerkov has already said that, if we compare the adoption of members of the Higher Education Council, where we had the dominants and the unique proposals of all the mandated promoters, we have managed to have wider lists, except for SANU, where leadership changed in the meantime, and it was difficult to change the previous decision, so that the Serbian Parliament will choose the appropriate number of candidates from the wider lists, at least one more, and somewhere there are a significant number of candidates. That's the first thing. Secondly, on these broad lists, I am not able to talk about all the authorised applicants, all the proposals, but when it comes to SANU, the Matica Serbian and Serbian universities, there are very high-quality candidates on the list and we will be able to best choose and hope that, as someone said in the previous discussion, at the previous point, that there will be no judges there, but we will really vote for the best candidates. As for candidates who propose associations, societies of physicists, philosophers, physicists, etc., there are several problems and there are candidates, and when I say with a suspicious biography, I mean, first of all, professional qualities, not the second part, but there are more candidates, and then we will be able to choose a slightly more adequate candidate than what the authorised promoters have offered us. One suggestion for the next period, perhaps the Committee should send a few months before that deadline an invitation to the mandated proposals and be a little bit more rigorous, even if not selecting all candidates, we will now have a single list and most likely, since we have a large number of candidates, will pass one proposal or two of all authorised applicants. I think it was more celery that, what was clean maybe a few months ago was chosen and that in the new school year when it came to elementary and high schools, we started with a new composition of the National Educational Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36401	Alexandra Jerkov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36402	Thank you. This discussion really needs to begin with the finding that the Republic of Serbia does not have a national educational council for seven months. In order for citizens to know what this is about, the responsibilities of the National Education Council are as follows, monitor and analyse the state of education at all levels of their competence, the consistency of the education system with European principles and values. Under two, it determines the development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary general and artistic education and education. Under three, it participates in the preparation of an education strategy based on established guidelines for the development of pre-school, primary and secondary general and artistic education and education. Under four, he discusses, takes views and gives an opinion to the Ministry in the process of passing laws and other acts, which regulate issues of importance for the field of education and education. Under five, it lays down general and specific standards of achievement, standards of competence for the profession of teachers and educators and professional associate and their professional development, standard competences of directors, quality standards of textbooks and teaching means, standards of conditions for achieving specific programmes in pre-school education and education, standards of quality of work of the institution. Under six, it provides the basics of pre-school education and education programmes, curricula and primary and secondary education and education programmes, part of the curriculum and secondary and professional education programmes and adult education programmes for general educational and educational courses. Under seven, it sets out a proposal for a final examination programme of primary education and education, general and art graduates, in accordance with this and a special law. Under eight, it determines the need for new textbooks and brings up a plan of textbooks and teaching means of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, general education courses of secondary and professional education and education of adults. Under 8a, it monitors, analyzes, makes recommendations to reduce children and students from the education system and sets out proposals for measures to continue education of people who have left the system. Under nine, it makes recommendations for the education and supplementary education of teachers, educators and professional associates, the council responsible for the development of higher education. Under 10, it provides consultations and obtains the opinion of representatives of relevant and socially marginalised groups and performs other tasks in accordance with the law. As one of the MPs said, when we discussed the last item of the agenda, you, when you came to the last candidate, had no memory of what you read, when the first candidate was born. I think that's what Mr. Petar Petrovic said. I believe that the citizens did not remember what the first point of these ten I read was, but I also believe that they remembered that it was something very important for our education system, especially in the period when the school year ends and the new school year begins, and all that time the Republic of Serbia did not have a National Educational Council. I believe it is the previous government's fault, I believe it was Miskovic's fault, I believe it was Bojan Pajtic's fault, but the fact is that since 8 April there was a proposal in this assembly that this assembly did not adopt. We are as a committee, and I, as chairman of the Committee, have in time informed all the mandated proposings for the selection of these members of the National Council to whom the mandate has expired to deliver their proposals. They all did, in accordance with the law, although it is a very complicated procedure for them, because they must call on their congregations, make decisions on the competent authorities, etc. On 15 January, when we discussed all the proposals that had arrived, in a desire to refer them to the Assembly as soon as possible, together with the Ministry, we saw a problem relating to that part of the candidates proposed by the professional societies and associations of teachers, or we noticed that almost all the professional societies and associations had proposed university professors, and on 15 January all of us who sent a letter to the Committee on Education, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, to propose to this Assembly an authentic interpretation of this member of the law, in order to adopt within the legal deadline the composition of the National Educational Council. For reasons unknown to us, we have already discussed this, I would really not enter that controversy again, this proposal ended up in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which, in someone's drawer, he probably waited three months to return to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that he would spend another two weeks in someone's drawer in the National Assembly, so that at the moment we had just adopted an authentic interpretation, he had already expired the mandate of the National Educational Council and already, Serbia had no National Educational Council. The naive citizens would think it would be a sign for us to hurry up, that it might speed us up and that we would understand how important it is for Serbia to have a National Educational Council before the end of the school year. However, these citizens thus show how naive they are, for this congregation meeting was not in the interest. Then, as the Committee, we sent a new letter to all those whose candidacys and whose proposals were no longer in line with the new authentic interpretation of the law. It wasn't a job that went easy. All the board members remember how many problems we had with a few companies that didn't want to change their candidates. It's a long and hard conversation we've had with all of them. A colleague said that, especially with SANU and Matica, we had a very difficult negotiation. The Serbian mother eventually agreed to send two candidates. It is also another debate that we have conducted quite often on the Committee, that it is not a humiliation if it is proposed and not elected as a member of the National Educational Council, that it should be an honor for everyone to even be proposed. It's something I firmly believe. However, it is still happening that by June 8th, all the proposings have sent new proposals. On June 8th, our Committee sent this list to the Assembly, which we are now adopting and now, on October 14th, seven months after the National Educational Council expired, we are only now discussing who will be members of the National Educational Council. Conspiracies and reformers could probably suspect that the key to why we have not adopted the National Educational Council so far is precisely in those responsibilities of the National Educational Council that deal with the quality control of textbooks. I think that these people might be right, given that Minister Verbic has spoken several times in this Assembly and in public that he has been exposed to terrible pressures from certain publishers, and since he himself has succumbed or reached an agreement with those pressurers, I think that some in this Assembly may have reached agreement with pressurers, because we did not have a National Educational Council, some publishers welcomed this school year without reviewing their textbooks, which allowed them a two-year large circulation, and a large circulation in case of publishing textbooks is carried with them and large profits. When it comes to the very proposals, like I said, they're all filed in accordance with the law. We have decided on the Committee that SANU, precisely because of the change in leadership, could not change the decision of its previous leadership, etc., so that they are the only promoter who has not offered a larger list of candidates. When it comes to that proposal made by associations and professional societies, we have achieved the goal we wanted. With many conversations with them, we have managed to propose all those teachers who teach in primary and secondary schools, not those who teach at the university, since teachers in primary and secondary schools are directly related to the work of the National Educational Council, although I do know that there are certain aspirations and desires that, if this is not already done, they are required to assess the constitutionality and legality of such interpretation of the law, since some university professors believe that they are being brought into an unequal position. However, if the Constitutional Court and until the Constitutional Court finds out about such a request, we act in accordance with the authentic interpretation of the laws that we have adopted together and, besides, whose one of the promoters I was. I really don't think we should talk about individual candidates. You've all got their biographies in the material. I believe that we will define ourselves in line with who the best-quality candidates are, not who the political option is. The only area in which we may have had the most problems, and that's one of the things we should think about. As we had university professors here instead of teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools, we only have school principals. Is it possible that none of the schools were able to propose any teachers, and that they had all proposed to the directors, that teachers who deserve to be in the National Educational Council might not be working in these schools, that they were the principals of schools alone? Of course, we couldn't refuse such a proposal, since the Proposer is free to propose whoever he wants. These are the laws of certain promoters, but we may be able to think in the future that some amendments to the law include teachers, not only teachers, because it's really amazing that none of the teachers deserve to be proposed by his school, but only school principals. Given the truly scandalous delay of seven months, given that there is no single objective reason why since June 8th when we sent a new list, although it was late because the proposal was mysteriously in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on June 8th we proposed a new list, and until today, Serbia had no National Educational Council, during which time it had no one to take care of final exams, a small graduation, the quality of textbooks, the promotion of teachers, innovations in curricula and programmes. I think we missed one school year without a valuable opinion of the National Educational Council, and indeed let those who can think about the right reasons take and this possibility that I have cited, and I really expect one apology from MPs who make up the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to those who have proposed their proposals in accordance with the law, and this majority did not adopt them. When it was due to correct Minister Nikola Selakovic's misdemeanors, we saw that a session is scheduled in a regular and extraordinary session in 24 hours, as a group of MPs can request and, in accordance with their request, a session is called whenever necessary. When it comes to the National Educational Council, we have seen that it is impossible to do so in an extraordinary session. I have been instructed by my colleagues from the committee to criticise me, but some criticisms go into my account, on behalf of one apology to all those proposings who, in accordance with the law, gave their proposals, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the former government, Miskovic and Pajtic, did not adopt, and I expect that the other MPs, who make up the majority in this Assembly, who have the opportunity to call for a session and to vote candidates and choose those who should be elected, apologized to those people, since seven months the Republic of Serbia does not have a National Educational Council solely because this Assembly has not discussed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36403	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36404	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear colleagues, I certainly join the assessment that today is a very important matter on the agenda. You've heard, today we have a united discussion in which we should discuss personal solutions and the composition of two very important bodies. It is certainly important to point out once again, it is never enough, that when we talk about the National Educational Council, all of what we have heard, and what is in line with its competences, duties and obligations, of first-class importance to our society, of first-class importance just as much as education for one society is important, and especially for society that is in the challenges of the modern age in which Serbia is present today, in which it is important to make a strong, strong, successful bond between education, education at all levels, but somehow the most highlights the high, then science, research of development and economy. I am convinced that what has been happening in this society since the entry into service of this government, we are going in a good direction when it comes to the efforts of this species and the creation of good, strong, common energy in these individual directions, and we are making them a common strong wave that is able to bring society where it deserves. In this regard, the composition of the National Educational Council, I thank you for hearing his exact jurisdiction, what he deals with by law, and I certainly support the view that it is necessary for the body of this species and this importance to function in full composition, in continuity. There are certainly appropriate rules there. The relevant rules and technical conditions include these terms of choice, reelection, entry into office, etc. We've talked about them in this room more than once. We talked and not so long ago in the discussions we have discussed, and so far I would like to thank in general and in the work, that, who were quite correct, for my part, for those words that we have heard, which explain the correct history of the problem, what we have been doing together, what we have discussed and what we have called upon as a composition of this call, but also as members of the relevant assembly committee, when we have dealt with this issue. We're talking about the National Educational Council today. We have a united agenda ahead of us. It's about another proposal, which I'd like to ask you to stay somewhere in the domain of our attention. Maybe one detail is important, and I'll come back a little later, which also concerns a very important advice. I thank you for that part of the explanation and for showing the problem that was so correct that they mentioned that there were difficulties. The difficulties in terms of the proposal that came from authorised promoters who were not in the spirit of what we all considered together to be the intention with which the law was written. Proposals were coming up that included those people we thought should not be proposed in front of certain proposings, because already people of appropriate status or calling, social status, as you wish, were envisaged as proposals by some other authorised promoters. Unfortunately, there was not enough to achieve a certain hearing in one regular communication and well-intentioned apparition on our part, so it was necessary to intervene through the adoption of authentic interpretation. Just in this room, I think, less in the same personal composition at that session, as in this session today. We've talked a lot about it here, I believe we've cleared up enough of all possible misunderstandings back then. However, it seems that it is not enough and again here and there to carry out some strange attitude from the list of those views that we were able to hear then, in the form of criticism, pure criticism for, the need to hit the bells a little bit and mention how the government, the ruling majority, the assembly group in that majority, minister, I don't know if I missed anything. In case we forgot, it wasn't so long ago for me, but still, months were at stake, then we made it very clear why the proposal for authentic interpretation went to the government, that it was one procedure for the Rules of Procedure. If someone thinks we need to change the Rules of Procedure, you can say that, but we shouldn't respect the one we have, I can only disagree with that. As for the date when what happened, we mostly understood each other. I heard today that on April 8th, the final list was definitely prepared. I'll take that as a lapus. So, it wasn't April 8th that was definitely nothing. On June 8th, we, and it says in this accompanying material, concluded as a committee that it was time to cut through and show understanding and good will on some of the issues that we, as board members, still deserved to discuss until the end. However, I remind you that whenever a sentence is drawn here, the responsibilities of this or that, pointing to the SNS and those political forces that make up the majority of this National Assembly, the majority that supports this government and which unequivocally supports the efforts that I spoke of at the beginning. Efforts to introduce order here, that this system gets the basics it deserves, that it gets its purpose and that finally that result that we all together, I don't think we can say differently, but we want what we have as a goal and that we will, I'm sure, and reach together. To be correct until the end, that session is precisely by the representatives of these forces, who are being accused here and there today of not knowing what I could hear, and we, like those who do most on the board, will show good will. We will accept that we do not insist further on resolving some of the details that we considered potentially controversial, precisely for that reason to speed up efficiency in the process of selecting members of this very important work. We will demonstrate good will and make our contribution to establishing this final list, this list that is now in the materials before us. This list you're looking at right now with everyone's right to keep their heads down as much as they want, there are videos. I can even borrow them, so I went through them one more time last night, so I've got them in my hand, possibly for that reason. So much for the will, the resolve, and the willingness of one who represents the majority in this session, that he participates in a way that supports efficiency. As far as these seven months are concerned, it would be, I believe, and you'll agree, correctly that we're not counting on what we've concluded to be objective reasons why we needed to intervene. I think that's a correct suggestion. I'm not asking for anything too much. So if we've been in a position to deal with authentic interpretations, and based on it to address authorised proposings, to wait for their answers, the minimum minimum is to understand about it. What happens after that? Of course, there was nothing else to expect today, again criticism, trees, rocks and hitting all the bells, there was negligence, unscheduledness, etc. Now I'm going back to that second part of today's united debate. You may have noticed that there was a determination to do this today by discussing both issues of choice and other important bodies together. Maybe, just maybe I'm making a suggestion now to eventually find some logic in understanding the procedures. If we wanted to discuss this together, maybe, just maybe what was on the board's agenda on October 1st, or it was on the agenda here right after that, is that day or two later, I'm not sure, we waited. Maybe it's just that we were discussing October 1st, and it came as information when it was April 24th. I see we understand each other, if that's the case, and we certainly have no intention of calling the sessions just because, here's something that hasn't happened on the board's agenda for a few months, we want to do it as effectively as possible, which would mean some precise time, some dynamics in the work of this Assembly, we're discussing one thing and another together today. Maybe just maybe. While we think about this dynamic a little bit and how these proposals came here, it might be best to forget about the story of a difficult seven months and someone's guilt when we talk about the representatives of the majority of this session. And I believe that would be more than correct. As for the story of the Bookbooks Act, the pressures of publishers and other conspiracies, which are certainly part of some of the stories we heard today, I wouldn't spend too much time on them, ladies and gentlemen, if that's okay with you. Every story about the plots we hear in this hall, I somehow, to use a certain metaphor I experience as one of those fast food from the market that we popularly call snacks. It's stuff on the outside pretty high, sometimes you're stuck until the shooting, and when we look at what's in there, it's mostly just a void. And what little content that can't be brought into the ordinary void is questionable, questionable quality, but unequivocally, there's no discussion about it, an unfavourable fact. That's not what I'm saying. That's what health workers say. To bring this debate to an end, as it is appropriate, that we today dedicate what time it deserves, to the National Educational Council, in a way that is truly appropriate and important to this body, and also to the importance of this home. I call for us to forget the need to criticise criticism, to talk about our system, about our perspective, if we have to, and to definitely put aside the need to hit those bells of criticism, no matter what. We don't need that, and there's an alternative for that kind of treatment. I think it's about that famous thought of the great Dosite, it might be appropriate for the conclusion of a story on the subject of enlightenment with us – books of brothers, books, not bells and messengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36405	Thank you. Is anyone else answering from the authorities? I'll give you my word as a proposing representative. Please be authorised, if they intend to speak in this part of the session to apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36406	Thank you. As a representative of the promoters, I will not be the name of my parliamentary group, although I think I may have been right on that basis to get my word on it. It doesn't matter. I just can't accept that a colleague as a board member is trying to transfer responsibility for something that the board can't be responsible for. In accordance with the law, we sent a letter to all the promoters to submit their proposals on January 15th, which was three months before the term of office to the members of the National Educational Council expired. We looked at the reviews, found that some should be improved, we addressed the committee responsible for giving authentic interpretations. The proposal was in the government of the Republic of Serbia for three months, and there has already been a delay. The second delay occurred when the response returned from the government of the Republic of Serbia, until the moment the committee responsible, which is not our committee, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, sent it to the National Assembly. Third delay until the National Assembly put it on the agenda. The fourth delay from the moment we delivered this list on 8 June, which is now being voted on, until today's day when we adopt it with seven months of delay. I only ask my colleague, when he quotes Dosite Obradovic the next time, to try to quote correctly, he says – schools brothers, schools, not bells and messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36407	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36408	Thank you, Madam President, it's definitely not about quoting Dosite. I checked it out, but in any case, one thing shouldn't be left clear. I'm not the one who put any blame on the board or any suspicion of possible guilt. It's just a matter of work. I'm well aware of how the board works and what we've been doing in it in the meantime. What I disagreed with, it's a story of commitment to the Rules of Procedure and whether she can. Is it possible for the Rules of Procedure to be declared for some lost time and for what we heard today, standing in a drawer? Inappropriately, you'll agree. Not to comment on what I've said as a reason that maybe, just perhaps, describes why we're discussing this today, tells me only one thing, that we understand each other and that we seem to be getting along maybe, just maybe we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36409	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36410	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly we should do an important job today to elect members of the National Council who are elected for six years. Of course this is an important question, given the role and all those tasks the National Educational Council has heard about here. It's in the law, too. We also complete that mosaic of duties and obligations that we have in our education and education system. On the one hand, we have the ministry as a competent administrative authority, on the other hand, the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. On the third hand, the National Educational Council, and almost certainly these segments cannot function fully in a valid way in favour of what their role is, is education and education in the Republic of Serbia. The SPS parliamentary group insists that we do not politicise this moment and that we do not conduct these disputes, which is why we are in a position to be late. The fact is, there's been a delay, which is certainly not good. There must have been some objective moments that affected it. There may also be subjective, but it is important that we overcome this and move towards resolving this issue and finally select the National Educational Council, so that it can work fully and decide on important issues in the field of education. But here, you see, these problems that have arisen and we are talking about here today certainly partly stemmed from what is the law itself, which defines the procedure and way of choosing the National Educational Council. As is known, the law that is in place, it is being checked through practice, through application and it has already been a long time that we have been able to detect certain shortcomings in the law and I think it is necessary to amend that part of the law that is currently dealing with the matter of procedure and the election of the National Educational Council. We have here that often authorised representatives, or promoters only propose one candidate, and then we return it, and then we have had to look for authentic interpretations about who can represent a particular association or community that proposes, which academic calling should be these representatives, etc. Then we also have the fact that these communities only propose directors from their ranks, etc. Then we find ourselves here in a situation where we talk about it and think about whether it's the right thing to do, whether it's the right thing to do, whether it's the right thing to do or not, and then we still have to look for some authentic interpretation and then we come in a situation where we're late and there's just new problems. So on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I suggest that we think carefully, and we discuss this, that perhaps it is time to improve some of the law dealing with the procedure and way of selecting members of the National Educational Council. The SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this proposal and will, in fact, be able to choose from these proposed candidates the number of candidates prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36411	Thank you. Is anyone else answering from the authorities? We're moving on to the list. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36412	Thank you. The order, procedures and processes that are related to the selection of the National Educational Council, I hope they are clear to us all. During this debate to us who have been in the process long ago, it is quite clear and procedural what has been going on, and contextually what is going to happen now that in the voting day most of us choose members of the National Educational Council. So, what was the procedural problem? The fact that we haven't all done our duties in time from our jurisdiction. It was a procedural problem. We can have a subject to blame for this, it's the one, it's from my point of view, completely irrelevant. A procedural failure has been made among many who have had the authority not to let that failure happen. What's a contextual failure because we're seven months behind with a selection of members of the National Educational Council. For me, it's the central theme of this debate that I see, except for me, a little who cares. The fact that the National Education Council has not worked for seven months, that a large part of the work for which the National and Educational Council is responsible will not be done for the next two years. That, in my opinion, is a huge responsibility. So, books and competences when it comes to textbooks have been missed for school 2015. - 2016, 2016. – 2017, analysis, insight, all that has been missed is safe for school 2015-2016. It's one of the sentences that I, if it were possible by the Rules of Procedure, would repeat at any point in my debate on any part of the agenda, because it's a paradigm -- we don't care. Until we understand that we absolutely don't care what's actually going on in the sector that we're in charge of, and as MPs until then we'll have a problem uninterrupted. Now we're as agreed by the National Educational Council. It's a missed school year. There's not everything he's legally competent to do. There's going to be another topic. It's no problem what the National Educational Council did or didn't do. The problem is, we don't care. What's important for today is that no one is charged and that we all look nice. This will not bring any good to Serbia, and that will not make us look better in the eyes of those who put us here to do our jobs and to be their voice. Why don't we care about education? Why doesn't anyone care for seven months that the school year will pass without the jurisdiction of the National Educational Council? Why don't we care about that? It's a problem that, I think, deserves not only public listening, but a plenary session, whoever is a member of the National Educational Council, because the problem is spending the future. If we can't understand that the context of the 2015 and the 21st centuries is that someone who doesn't discuss education every day in their society and how they're going to educate for the next 30 years of the 21st century, then we don't understand anything. We can talk to citizens, citizens can love some of our leaders, we can get a permanent majority, be a permanent minority, that's all that doesn't matter. We don't understand the context of the time we live in, if we don't care what happens to the school year in Serbia 2015-2016. That's the reality we have to face. What do I miss about the work of the National Educational Council? This isn't criticism. This is the context. I miss being those in the National Assembly with their analysis. I miss the professional word of those we choose to be on the National Educational Council. I miss discussing what education in Serbia looks like today, what we educate, what we want to be knowledge in Serbia for five years in advance. I miss the controversy about why we thus cultivate contempt for knowledge, why we mock those who know, why we keep silent about those who embarrass the educational system of education in Serbia. It's all the jurisdiction of the National Educational Council. We can choose a position – nobody cares about it, so we won't care either, so we'll all be in the Assembly to deny what it has, not qualify, not insult, I'm just saying showing an attitude that's not honest and based on facts, but that's how it's supposed to be said, so let's finish the session. The reality of education in Serbia will not change for the better. The first time we see this National Educational Council, which someone will vote for, we have had debates in a parliamentary group about voting for members of the National Educational Council, there are great names and great candidates, I will not vote for anyone. I want to show my integrity and do a protest vote because I think it's important that one of us does it. I will not vote for the people I know will be terribly useful to my work and it will look like the choice of the majority, because I follow what anyone does in education because on a daily level it is important to me how huge the problem of silence on education in Serbia, neglecting education in Serbia, lack of dialogue on what this education looks like and even hypocrisy about how we have a super education, but here it is. If this item of the agenda goes through with the relief of everyone, come on well, we were late, it doesn't matter, this was there, this was here, what who did, let's just pick them out, so they'll work, in less than seven months from today, there'll be another problem that has the same paradigm. We don't care about what's important in the modern world. If we all say that Serbia is changing, that every sector in Serbia is reformed, that there is a rule of law in Serbia, that there is European integration in Serbia, if we are in the words, it's terrible that in our Assembly, which is why we have no information in any of the messages of the National Spatial Council on the huge debate in the EU that lasts for years. We don't know shit about it here. My view of refusing to vote is really connected to a deep personal attitude and I stress it because I don't want any of the candidates who have finally arrived to be elected to think it's personal, that it's any kind of personal reaction. I think the biggest problem with our political scene is that the biggest problem of all the problems we have is the ignorance that we tolerate in places where it can't be, and the fact that people realize that what is politically is both personal and personal, so every personal, personal account represents as politics. It has nothing to do with politics, as it has nothing to do with education what we're happy to exchange words about. I want future members of the National Educational Council to work successfully, whatever they do during this school year, and I would like most of it to be a dialogue between them, a representative of the National Educational Council, committees, parliamentary groups and presidents of the National Assembly, that we be practically the first to call on education, education problems, the context of education in Serbia, the position of education in our list of priorities, amounts to the budget, all of what is the competence of the National Educational Council to put on the monthly level of debate in this Assembly. It can only be good for all of us. With hope that such a good will be thanks to the efforts of all of us, I thank you for the attention you have listened to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36413	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36414	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not repeat what my predecessors said, I will not talk about the problems that were on the board. It is evident that this is something that we must all be interested in and that we must do business together, because it is of interest to Serbia and to all its citizens. After all, this advice is also called national. Therefore, it is not the advice of one party or coalition, but of all of us together. Now, I want to accept something from these earlier discussions. What has been a major problem in Serbia for many years? The problem is that we are incapable of being able to take advantage of those who are capable. Why? Because the incompetent can do whatever they want, and they can only do what they know. We, unfortunately, have accepted that truth, that fact, and perhaps we treat those people incorrectly who want to do only what they know. As far as the National Educational Council is concerned, I just want to quote here why he was formed. The National Educational Council is educated to monitor, facilitate development and improve the quality of education and education. We don't need anything else to keep in mind, except this fact. Whether we want to admit it or not, over the past 25 or 30 years, we've sinned first on education and then on education. How do we correct this now in one mandate of the Council or in one term of government? Very difficult. First, it can't be done by one government, it can't be done by one Council, we all have to do it together. I agree with a colleague who spoke before me, perhaps unfairly we say that our education is high-level, that it's quality, that it's good. Unfortunately, we have to admit to ourselves that there's a lot of things that are below all levels. And it's up to these people that we're choosing today, and I hope that we will choose those who are the best of quality, as my colleague Nedja said earlier when he spoke about the choice of judges, the best-quality people to choose and place them in the places that belong to them. It won't be an easy job for them, no matter what someone's tied up to that seven-month delay. Their problem will be that there are many things that have not been done and many things that they have to do. Of all of us, they must have support and we must work together with them to do what is in the interests of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia, that is, what we expect of generations. We're carrying part of the guilt, and we need to use even more power to make it right. I hope that we will be wise, that we will be smart, that we will not look at the narrow party interests, but that we will all work together to achieve the level that Serbia and its citizens deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36415	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36416	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with apologies for speaking to Mr Stojmirovic personally, but you simply had us on the stand to do this job together. Our board president asked us to do it as soon as possible, so here, seven months of the National Educational Council is not working. So it wasn't that problem in us, it was a problem in most of us. Seven months, the National Educational Council isn't working. I thought I'd never say this in parliament, but I think that for a long time, maybe too long, we've talked about the National Educational Council. And to discuss improving the work of the National Educational Council, perhaps improving the legal district that defines the work of the National Educational Council, their reports, then never debate much on the subject. But now we're talking about creating conditions that they start working again, that they work. What one politician would say instead of attainment, we are talking today about the future, re-work of the National Educational Council. My colleague, Jerkov, has elaborated this very well. I would like to emphasise just a few points in the jurisdiction of the National Educational Council: I am considering, taking views and giving an opinion to the Ministry on the process of passing laws and other acts. So he participates in the process of passing laws concerning education. A particularly important point in their competence is the fifth point, which says they establish general and specific standards of achievement, standards of competence for teacher and educator profession and their professional development, standards of competence of directors, quality of textbooks and teaching tools. A very important point in the area of competence of the National Education Council. A very important point is also eight – I establish the need for new textbooks, delivers a textbook's plan and proposes to approve textbooks and teaching tools for pre-school, primary and secondary general and artistic education and education, general education, secondary vocational education and adult education. So from this we see the importance of the National Educational Council in the area of development of education, in the field of overall functioning and the process of functioning of education. One such institution does not function for seven months. On one occasion, I want to point out what the consequences are. I came to that example by reading their reports from April, May and June 2014. That's what the National Educational Council would do this year if it worked, but it didn't work. So, on the agenda of 2014, on the agenda of the National Educational Council in April, May and June, the final exam programme for the end of primary education and education, the innovative curricula and secondary education and education programmes, textbooks, would discuss this as well this April that the National Educational Council had functioned. In May 2014, the National Educational Council discussed innovative curricula and programmes for 17 educational profiles on secondary vocational education and education and again on textbooks. And this year they'd be discussing the subject if it worked, but it didn't work. In June of the month, among other things, the re-innovated curricula and re-innovated textbooks. Now I get to that, that problem I wanted to point out. In September, students of the fifth grade started learning from the computer textbook about dial up connections to the Internet. So Internet dial up connections are not used years ago. Over four million internet users in Serbia, none use dial up connections anymore. And while in reality ADSL relationships at hundreds of megabits of speed, we textbooks, i.e. children in fifth work learn about dial up connections. To make a parallel for those who may not understand, it's like teaching people to light a car on a whore, right here. That's the relationship. Now, while we're waiting for some supersonic cars, we're teaching kids to burn a car on a whore. It's a dial up and an ADSL, for example. It's a dial up and let's say hundreds of megabits that exist in reality. These are the consequences of the failure of the National Education Council for nearly seven months. Good thing it's even on the agenda. Mrs. Comic talked about it. We're at our MP's club and we've made decisions to support. I'm not talking about biography just for a few reasons. I don't think there's enough culture in Serbia to talk about biographies, or people with concrete biographies. We should start with that in parliament, somehow when we specifically start talking about people going that debate in some direction we shouldn't, but I'm going to highlight a biography. I'm going to emphasize a candidate whose work I personally know. So it's about a candidate for the Union of Teachers of Serbia. This is more specifically about candidate Zdenka Milivojevic. I know how professionally he does his job. I know how committed she is to this job, and I strongly recommend that everyone vote for this candidate, because she's the right for this job at the National Educational Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36417	Thank you. Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic says you mentioned him? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36418	It wasn't agreed, it was a colleague by accident. I guess we didn't understand each other. First of all, as far as the Committee's work is concerned, I think that the extraordinary co-operation of all board members regardless of who is from which party, and that can be confirmed by the board president, on the other hand, I support what Comic said, and we all have little guilt in what is happening. Now I would quote, since we are already quoting our greats, I would quote Beijing who says – if God wanted us to look back, our eyes would be on the back of our heads. He has decreed that our eyes be ahead and that we look forward to the future. Let's ignore these mistakes and everything that happened in the past, let's try to make some of our education and education. We can't do it alone, we all have to go from first to last citizen of Serbia, and I hope we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36419	Alexandra Jerkov, do you have two minutes? No, on another basis. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36420	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected educators who are interested in this debate today, and I think it is because it is a matter of selecting members of the National Educational Council, who solves, let's say, all the problems, so that citizens understand us better in education. Let me conclude in the opening part and say, if education and education is the primary resource of our society in conditions of transition, it is indeed the primary resource, then it can greatly contribute to the progress of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia only if conditions are created for its optimal functioning. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that you all agree with this finding. That is why education and education reforms and its economic basis are key moments, not to say the imperative of Serbia's modernisation project, carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. You will also agree that knowledge or education is a presumption of democracy. Knowledge and education strengthen democracy and ignorance favors dictatorships. That is why it is no wonder that many European and not only European but also world governments in their programmes have given education and education important places and in their exposés during the submission and selection of European governments. Our Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has given us a significant place in the exposé he submitted here as you know, to the Members of the People on April 27th, 2014. I don't want to talk about that exposé, you all got it, but just to say he's the best, he's the most concrete, precise, the biggest, the 52nd typed side, and he's the best of all 72 previous ones. And what is important for today's debate is that four pages of text are dedicated to the exhibition of Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, education and education. Dear People's MPs, I've been comparing previous exposures and there's half of the former Prime Minister's ex-president's ex-president's ex-president's ex-president's ex-president's ex-exposure, so half of it's only been devoted four pages of eight pages to how many entire exposures. On page 32, the prime minister said, I will quote a sentence -- this government will reform the education system, a final quote. I believe he will. Why? Because the process of education and education and reform is a long-standing process, and it will try in some way to reform it, and this educational National Council, in order for the Educational National Council to have the role that we have provided for it in the law that we heard about at the beginning of the debate, it must know what it is coming to, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. Let me say something about the National Educational Council and what is the situation, education and education in our society. I have to say, you'll agree with me that there are at least twenty characteristics of our education system in what it is today, and it's not great, I'll only list a dozen. The first is tattooation, which is what the National Educational Council is coming to, and tattooing education and education of the entire system. Second, the politicization of the system. We have a system of education and education to the ground politicized, which is not good. Third, red tape, which was few words, therefore, comes the National Educational Council and into the area. Antipedagogisation, there were words about it with the MPs. I believe that this is one of the biggest problems today in education and education, because we have totally ignored the educational function of schools and societies, and the National Educational Council should put this on the agenda and I recommend that it first put it on the agenda, so pedagogation, to redefine the general objective of education and education from which it is based, because we have maintained the general goal of education and education from the socialist period, that is, since 1990. You see, what comes to me is the National Educational Council, the one that we're going to choose today or possibly tomorrow, and I really think these are the facts that we all need to take care of together. The next problem, commercialization, we have brought education and education down to commercialization. So, I'm not going to talk about it in particular, and when I say the ex-National Council has thrown out some of the teaching subjects of patriotic content. I can speak to you now in class, but I'm not going to bother you, but if it's necessary for the importance of both the National Council and the work programme he has. However, I will mention that the former National Educational Council kicked out of music from the elementary school of one grade, when the music hearing area just found "Mars na Drin" to be cast out, or from the Serbian language "Death Smail age Cengic", "Tento singing from the cave", etc. There's this mass of problems, I have no intention of telling what the former government is, what it's led to. It led to what I'm talking about. Furthermore, the textomania is a feature in which the National Educational Council must take account? We've reduced our students to just writing tests. Bad and expensive textbooks that were mentioned here, and not to say, some have been used in the last 20 years, you've read in the press these days. That's where the former National Council was. Twenty years haven't changed textbooks, but they're bad, expensive. We had about 80 publishers somewhere. You have to admit that yet now the law on textbooks will be a little different than before. A wide field of corruption, especially not to speak. From preschool to high school institutions, by verticals, here I will be open, a teacher, a school director, a school administration, if you want even an inspection. It's a vertical that this government and this minister are trying to break in some way. The absence of a national qualification framework, today we have a debate in the second room about it. So it came to the agenda, we don't have gentlemen from the former regime for 20 years. We haven't had that qualification in 20 years. The depth of the depths of education and education that the former regime has brought us to, is looking for mobile and professional teams, both at the Ministry of Education and at the departments for teaching, philosophy and teaching schools. That's not a word of it today. And they are in charge of the vision of education and education and the National Educational Council should cooperate closely with them first, and then with us, because they are professional. Imagine that there is not one of the largest educators alive in Serbia today in any national educational council. Not to say that the Serbian Academy of Science is a science academy, but there are no academics in the field of education and education. The pedagogue doesn't have any. The Academy of Science and this National Assembly must be deeply pictured. Let me say, since there has been criticism at the expense of the current minister and government, let me say what was done within a short period of time for this year, although it is late, as opposition MPs have said with the National Educational Council. It's my finding, and it's better to be late, but let's get it right. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, or the former National Council for Higher Education, were not properly selected. For two years, we have been struggling to adjudicate a member of the National Council who has not been elected by law by the former authority, you see. And we'd better be late and pick him out honestly, 'cause he'll do what I'm talking about right now. For the first time in 20 years, publicly and transparently, technological surpluses were published, but also needed jobs through the Ministry of Education. Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition bench, what I'm saying? So why does this matter? For corruption. What happened? Instead of missing 14,000 extra jobs, there are seven missing. So where did these 7,000 jobs come from? Well, that's what the directors you chose were hiding, I have to say. Who, along with the school administrations, put in certain individuals and normally received certain fees for it. Second, for the first time in 15 years, educational inspection began to be cleansed, as a form of corruption. You're saying the chief of inspection hasn't been removed, too? Why did you put up with him 10 years earlier, and you know it's a conflict of interest, that we have, that we don't say companies, companies to sell textbooks. For the first time, a public and open discussion on the Law on textbooks has been carried out, which you, too, will be positively declared by the gentlemen of the opposition benches. There won't be two bums in first grade anymore. One is left at school, yes, a gentleman who laughs from opposition benches and the other one to carry a student. You know why the other guy was at school? Because some percentage was taken. And that's what the ministers of the former watched, but they didn't react. For the first time, in the last 20 years, the public and open practice of choosing the dean for the third time in college, some were 20 years. This government stopped it, this minister stopped it. You know that as well as I do. For the first time in 15 years, it has been left to colleges and student parliaments to set the number of test deadlines. Is it true gentlemen from the opposition benches? We've adopted that in the last 15 days. These are huge advances, which is the reform that the government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking. The first time is introduced and completed, a national qualification framework is introduced. Believe it or not, we don't have it for 25 years. And here today we have a debate in the second room on the national qualification framework for the satisfaction of all our students, all our students and their parents, and it will soon be adopted. Here we are today choosing one half of the National Educational Council, whose responsibility is extremely large, I fully agree, so every member of the National Educational Council should be the best educational worker in theory, in practice in its profession. Is that what we're gonna get? Of course not. Not because we don't want to and don't want to propose, but because the legal framework has limited us, because some associations delegate individual delegates, and you have an association with three members, and then it gives its candidate, not the best educator of a particular profession. This should be the national educational advice of the brain trust per individual teaching, let's say, subjects, or scientific disciplines, but unfortunately, it's not. If I, gentlemen, were not to bother you too much with these claims, with the evidence, let me say this sentence in the end – it is not important to be late for the election of the National Educational Council, it is important that he is properly elected, important that these are honest and honest people and most of them are, but I can't figure it out, I'm quoting one of the MPs from the opposition benches that says: "There are great people here, but I won't vote for anyone. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Imagine that sentence, there are great people, but I won't vote for anyone. I can't understand that in this National Assembly, a high house, a national MP says that. In the end, Mr. Vice President Becic, my smallness, and as you've heard all of our members of the SNS Group, will support this national council, with a desire to move forward with the reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36421	I thank Professor Atlagic. Mr. Stefanovic is not here. People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36422	Mr. Chairman, I would, and in an effort to avoid repeating the objectives, roles and importance of the National Educational Council, while not being able to keep quiet the comments that are in this debate, should be academic whether a tone of politics or political, and in the context of putting everything into some level of responsibility of the hierarchy of adopting this proposal and finding it before the MPs, wanted to point out that it is important for us to finally have a clear list of candidates, to the extent that it could be done after more interventions of the board, that the committee was working on a timely and timely basis, according to a methodology which was earlier in law, provided that if something in this procedure was at times similar to self-administrative mechanisms, so as to make such an opportunity to propose late or not to comply with the requirements of the board, which had a serious integrated function, it would be possible for each of the candidates to read and to read all of the documents. This resulted in the need to ask some associations and some proposings to repair, correct their lists after the sessions held in the spring. For example, some of them were deaf to this, besides existing people who were not legally possible later in the authentic interpretation of staying on the list, but new people who would be legally wrote down. So there are reasons for being late everywhere, and the relative significance of this delay can ultimately be seen as one relativeization of the problem. We cannot understand that something was done by a gift-mar in Serbia, in an educational system which is obvious, that I am not quoting MP Atlagic, talking about the ministry's work and about the many aspects of its wide action, not only covering the portfolio that we are talking about, the resistor of technology, higher education, etc. I believe that in this way, as we have come out with this proposal in our definite relationship with the selection of candidates based on the biographies they own, de facto biographies are such that everyone certainly has what it is for the place for which they compete enough that it is fortunately more such candidates and that we can almost in all cases except in one where academics simply didn't, simply, give another candidate and these are members of the board just like that, we've basically stood on that side that we won't potential again despite the letter to send another candidate. Let it be the man they proposed. Of course there were elections at the academy, various objective reasons that were what they were. They all maintained more or less direct conditions under which they either supported the rule and a permanent condition by which they could be chosen. The responsibility of the Council in the context of what it provides to the ministry, where this bond is often brought into contact is such that it forwards the minister as an idea, as a recommendation, as a proposal, but at the same time attends a man from the ministry, an authorised person sent there by the minister. Therefore, this communication has never been deleted and it could not affect the quality or mechanisms of the proposal that the National Education Council, acting in full form beyond the end of the mandate, could affect some legal projects. Finally, we also heard a list of sessions and content of topics discussed. Many of the laws that were here have already been discussed. They're not day-to-day changes, we're starting to run for our political programmes to show that we have a strategic need to do something years ago. We cannot, of course, change the strategic elements or strategic directions, objectives in the education system daily, from session to session, so, let's say, missing, paraphrasing, one session from, say, April that would have a crucial impact on the quality of the Law on textbooks, which is in itself very revolutionary, and it is simply impossible that the memo and report to the ministry did not come from the National Educational Council on the earlier discussions of this problem, which has been considered for a very long time in the academic public as a significant problem, and here it is respected that this might be something different, that this Council has functioned at a given moment. It should always be taken into account the fact that the proposings, not so zealously, were returning the need to correct their proposals, and then we received them when they were getting them, and the committee there really had to compile a number of different influences, a number of different, as I would say, proposals and attitudes to find ways to resolve the ambiguities. I think that the committee works best in this segment, in this chain of responsibility, so together as a member of the committee with other colleagues from all parties our decision was almost unanimous, almost unanimous on all the issues we have brought there, and I think that in this way we have not dramatically lost and brought about the unpleasantness or unfortunate facts that would be crucial in the functioning of this system for further guidance on the development and fulfillment of the strategy already adopted at Ministry level by the Government, etc. So, we now bear responsibility for the personal selection of people who are there, I say, biographies are what they are. We must properly interpret the biographies, include my information about these people and correctly select people who will act as responsible for the next six years, and simply continue the work of the Council as foreseen by the law. They regularly deliver their reports to the board, deliver to the government. If there is a problem in communication, if there are legal obstacles that we can intervene here, or they think themselves, board members, that something in that functioning chain is not good, so they are finally and authorized to make proposals to the minister, to implement certain amendments to the law. As you know, we can fix the laws, correct them, bring them to the extent that they will be most optimal for the application of this important strategic area of our country. So, these strategic goals of the party to which I belong, as it has voted and drawn, strives to carry out reform in continuity, not putting on big bells – it is our hand's work, and you didn't do it, and you could do it; but we simply want to do it through those channels, those systems that are stipulated by law, among other things, is the influence of the National Educational Council, i.e. broader public debates, it is the influence of the academic community, and to avoid any coalition, interest or any imposition of views. We want to do it in such a transparent way, that something that we achieve is a recommendation for the future or a model that others will be able to use in adopting similar legal provisions or similar rules of conduct. So, I believe, after all, to finish this story of my own, that what we got was a valid text that passed the candidates' proposals, some were returned several times, that it was at the proposal level, which is a democratic procedure, combed and that those on which, of course, the MPs, and the ministry couldn't influence, but that authenticity came from the base. It is up to us to now choose the people who are proposed to form the work of the National Educational Council in the full term, in full composition, that they can decide on those accumulated issues and important issues, above all an analysis of the effects of what we have done to date, working on changes to the reform functioning of the ministry, to see if what we have assessed as reform really is so and that the National Educational Council may suggest that perhaps more should be done, complete. I end up with the fact that we are talking about today, that we are discussing an important strategic document on qualifications, what we had for a very long time, what we had daily, as MPs, as people in the legislative sphere when asked – what did my child learn and become? When he's not in the National Qualifications Register, he'll never be able to get a job. Here, we're on the verge of solving such a problem. We are discussing this draft today, and I believe that we will continue when we choose the members of the Council to work even more competent and, of course, more responsibly. The Assembly has the right to resolve an unscheduled member of the Council, and we sometimes have the impression that we are discussing the very subject of replacing the unscheduled members that Nikoni sigmatized us, simply this is the end of the mandate of the people with whom we have been practically satisfied for the past six years. Such an idea did not come from anywhere, which means more than the mandate of a government, one or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36423	Thank you, Dr. Pocuric. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36424	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's sessions, Mr. Becic, on the election of the first half of the members of the National Educational Council to which the mandate expired on 18 March 2015, we are discussing here today without the presence of a guest from another institution. I think it's a good opportunity, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, that 250 of us here to discuss an area that is very important for each modern democratic state, which is an area of education, look into the eyes, respected gentlemen, and to sum up the results of our work in that area in the previous year and a half. Today is October 14th 2015. Mrs. Jerkov, the chairman of the Education Committee has said finely that we have not been functioning for seven months by the National Educational Council, and the National Educational Council, respected gentlemen, its work, the work of this body, regarding the development, security and improvement of the quality of education. This means, gentlemen, that we here in our country for seven months do not have a functioning body that deals with development, security and improvement of quality of education and education. Then MPs from the ruling majority, Mr. Orlic, Mr. Poscurica, Mr. Atlagic, here tell us that this is not so bad, which means seven months when we now have a chance to choose the best people. So, gentlemen of honor. Mr. Orlic here suits us and this remark by what he says – maybe, just maybe. I am, of course, opening a dictionary to see what that could mean – maybe. When we talk about the National Educational Council, he says – Maybe it means yes. Then this is how I conclude, Mr. Orlic tells us – it may be that the National Educational Council is working, and it may not be working, there is not much... He can't, gentlemen. We can't say "maybe", "may not be" we are judging on a non-functioning National Educational Council. If in seven months, Mr. Becic, we don't have a functioning body dealing with development, security and improving the quality of education and education, then it's the most serious issue for our debate here, to whom we have to pay terrible attention and to see who is responsible here among us, which MP, MPs of which political parties, which we have seven months of infunctioning of the National Educational Council. I think, gentlemen, and I'd be glad to have everyone here agreeing that the education system is one of the most important segments of our country. The basic functions of the education system, however, in our country act as if the case of the National Educational Council, its failure to function for seven months, is an example for anyone who wants to suspect that our education system works at all, gentlemen. It's not just about the National Educational Council. We've had cases here to ignore proposals for academic honesty to be introduced into a higher education system. We had one unrecorded in the history of our parliamentaryism case that the day before the debate at the assembly session was withdrawn from the procedure of a Law on textbooks, gentlemen. For me, that means that, first of all, this ruling majority has been in these years and a half so that those people who conclude that our education system is destructive have arguments for that claim. If they have arguments for this claim, then I return to the question from the beginning – and whose responsibility is that? I repeat, we should not, in the words "maybe", used by Mr. Orlic, or in the words "not so bad", used by Mr. Atlagic and Poscuric, we are running away from responsibility for an unedited area, gentlemen. I conclude that this majority here doesn't care about education, that this majority here education is one side thing, which education only treats as unnecessary cost. We have to change that, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36425	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic, the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36426	Thank you. Sure, replica. Two things here deserve intervention on my part. First, whether the majority is or does not care, I think it speaks enough of the fact that very happily and very devoted, I think it's one of the favorite words of a fellow who caused the replica, I would say very deliberately, we demonstrate during this debate and not only during this debate, I talked about it today, and at all that we have done as representatives of our party on the committee in charge in the meantime. We care and we care, and I'm sure, when we conclude this debate, we'll confirm that impression all together, there's nothing controversial about it. As for that perhaps, my perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was clear to anyone who wanted to be clear to him, if anyone refused, I can't do anything about it, referring to the proposal to someone else, certainly not to whoever caused the replica. Leaving some space for us to perhaps understand, here it is again perhaps, about my seeing why we have the dynamics in the work that we have today and based on those reactions that followed, I have concluded – this understanding we have achieved, so there is no room for a colleague who has caused a replica of anything insolent, nor is he opening his own dilemmas on this matter. Anyway, that didn't apply at all to what was just said, perhaps the National Educational Council is working. I didn't say that once. But it's a good thing we consult dictionaries and other books. In that sense, I also quoted Dossy in that previous presentation. I also quoted Ljubivo Rsumovic as saying, with the opening of the last book fair, which he had used and said that books open new eyes, that is why they are important. It also has to do with a quote used by counterpart Stojmirovic, eyes as a mirror forward, a similarity to the name of the Serbian Progressive Party and its basic political direction is an accident, unless it may not. But it would be good to use the senses that we are provided with in the best possible way, even if we look well, and to hear from each other today. And the videos, once again, exist. We can use our eyes and look at it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36427	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Please, Mr Pavicevic, you have very skillfully challenged several replicas when you mentioned a number of MPs. In order to allow you to have a replica again, then you must patiently wait for these MPs to finally say what you said in your presentation. Mr. Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36428	Thank you. What can I say about this replica? Let me say, however, when I say that it is not scary when I say that a small selection of members of the National Educational Council is late, Mr Orlic explained well, even the President of the Council, so he was, in addition, late for some technical reasons. It is better that he was late, and we have chosen him by law, because the previous one for higher education did not, and it has done harm, and the Educational National Council has previously done the damage that I have spoken about and listed. Let me say that it would have been better if he had been even more late without being kicked out of listening to the music "March on the Drin," like before. I hope this one gets it back. It is therefore good to choose according to the law and good members of the Educational Council. We should also be late and four or five months later, and return Ivan Goran Kovacic to the "Jama" of the Serbian language and to the very tenth singing in which the Serb massacre is mentioned. At least we found it, the previous National Council, etc. This is about academic honesty. It is not congratulating academic, nor civil fair to speak in this high house of academic honesty, and all the amendments I propose, I will never be in the Assembly in a voting day and I do not vote in favour of those amendments. It's beneath every civilization and cultural level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36429	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, is now three of the notes I wish to make in the replica to the honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Orlic and Atlagic. First of all, I remind Mr. Orlic, Mr. Becic, that the term "maybe" cannot be used in any form when we talk about liability for the non-functioning of the National Educational Council, which lasted seven months. We can't use words – it can be working, it can be not working. Instead of such, in my court, the wrong approach, I suggest that Mr. Orlic attach himself to the principle of ethics of responsibility, to determine who is responsible for non-functioning and that we have then clearly established responsibility and sanctions for it. That would be responsible work. The other thing, Mr. Atlagic says – we should wait, not bad to wait, there are good things. But, gentlemen, since 8 June, this proposal has been in the process here, this particular proposal we're talking about today. From June 8th to July 8th is one month, August the second month, September the third month, October the fourth month. Well, what did he do for four months without the idea of discussing it, gentlemen, Mr. Becic and Mr. Atlagic? The third thing, I have to say here, it's not appropriate, I think, Mr. Becic, when one MP says to another MP here, you're only challenging replicas. Mr. Becic, he can't talk to the MP here, because the Assembly is a place for dialogue, for debates. Someone who causes replicas means they have a different approach, maybe better than the one who heard it. A dialogue instead of a monologue, respected gentlemen of progress, especially in our assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36431	Thank you. I'd like to ask if there's no direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36432	I was talking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36433	Like, Mr. Pavicevic, it's not worth mentioning my name and name, because I don't want to replicate with you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36434	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, I advertise Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which states - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed on a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication; if the offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, or the political party whose MP is, belongs to that parliamentary group, the President of the Parliament shall have the right to reply on behalf of the Parliament group; the exercise of the rights referred to in Article 1 and 2 shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly on behalf of the Parliament. You have the right to give the replica to Mr Pavicevic, but provided that the first two conditions are met. Mr Pavicevic's last replica was completely unfounded. He caused the replicas answered by Mr. Orlic and answered by Mr. Atlagic. After that, you gave Mr Pavicevic another chance to replicate, although the conditions laid down in Articles 1 and 2 have not been met, and on which basis you can decide, and you do not have to give him a replica. I understand that you are painful to the opposition, but just look at the statistics how many times you use Mr. Pavicevic's rights unfounded, see only in the sum of how many replicas he has and most of them were without any basis. I'm asking you to take a little account of that in the future. In doing so, I don't mind you favoring the opposition, but we still have to have some measure there. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36435	I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Surely Mr Pavicevic, after that presentation, mentioning the name of the MPs, wants to challenge the replica and give himself space for an extra minute, but it is up to those MPs again whether they will engage in the replication of Mr Pavicevic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your words and for your patience. I'm doing this with the ambition to make this the shortest replica today. So, just once again, since it seems like we haven't heard enough, seen or understood, maybe all three, to repeat the call to consult the video together and to determine exactly what anyone here has said today. As for those stories about replicas, there I can agree with both the chairman and colleague Risticevic, we all found the same thing in common, and that unfortunately it was an attempt to attract attention and nothing more. To keep talking about this was just going to meet these attempts, and I'm sorry, I'm not in the mood today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36437	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36438	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have carefully read these suggestions and the first thing that came into my sights and what I thought to say and to share with you is the next. In my opinion, this advice is too smooth, there are too many members. We choose half. So, out of 43, we have to choose 22, and we're having a debate about it. For me, it's a little bit much, and I think that law needs to be changed, and I think the basic law came out somewhere in 2006, which predicted this way of choosing and this large number. So, there's no small contemplation when we have 43 people we choose from, and we choose every three years because someone smart is found, so he said we'll pick one for six years, the other for three years, so the National Assembly every three years has to choose half the members. That's where I believe there's been a delay, and the regrets sent here by an MP, academically decent, don't stand. He asked for the Minister of Education's presence. The minister of education and members of the ministry come when they're proposing, and here is the committee and board members, and as far as I can tell, they're having some live debate here. The difference between knowledge and wisdom is far greater. For wisdom, other than knowledge, you need experience and observation and hence I believe that the academic upright MP is in the sphere of knowledge, but wisdom still takes a little time to get the proper experience and to move from the sphere of knowledge into wise persons, or to speak wisely. Knowledge is usually a treasure that follows its owner everywhere. It's a saying that concerns that and I'm wondering now, since this advice on many issues, programs, reviews, textbooks, etc. has some functions, how much is our knowledge applicable? I've seen various societies here that have delegated candidates in a certain way, that is, candidates for the selection of members of the Council, and here are the Mother of Serbs, and the Academy of Science, there are various societies, historians, geographers, physicists, chemists, philosophers, art educators, psychologists. There's also a psychologist. Therefore, MPs can, who consider it necessary, academically congratulating, that some of their own personal uses of instructions are done by members of the Council who come from the order of psychologists, but what is not, and knowledge must be applied and academically... For example, it is known for its academic integrity to the Faculty of Political Sciences. They drive that political honesty and academicity with a stick, and then they come here and they tell us how to be academically honest, and they catch crowbars, poles, etc. Their dean himself got in trouble, and they probably didn't chase him with the poles because he was issuing fishing permits. Most likely that his knowledge and behavior at the university was not academically liked, and then the statutes of the university were driven out by a pole or a crowbar. I know there was an affair there. Thus, these academic honest remarks do not stand for the simple reason why knowledge must be applicable. Some lecturers have to teach me to produce a little better, to know a little bit more, but to make that knowledge a little bit more practical, and to achieve a little better results in production, that students, students, and this is about high school students... The previous MP spoke as if it were a university and university. As far as I know, this council will decide on high and elementary school. I agree there's a professor who should go back to high school. I agree that there are some doctors there who turn around, who wouldn't like me to pass an entrance exam for high school, and they have doctoral titles and titles. That is why there is a big difference between calling and knowledge, and in particular the knowledge that needs to be passed on to other people in order for them to be, not just academically honest, because that academic honesty comes under suspicion from the creator himself, the word that comes and says – one proposal squats somewhere in the drawer. How can a bill fail if we're academically honest? If we often look at the dictionary, the term “shut” means to be bent in a semi-snatched and folded position, bent knees, etc. One law, one proposal certainly cannot bend, bend its knees, etc. Now that we're calling academic congratulations, when we're calling for help from some dictionaries, then we need to be consistent and when we show ourselves something to look for it in a dictionary that's there somewhere in our hand and on the bench. Anyway, this advice is, in my opinion, huge and it should be reduced, it should go – saving is the best profit and putting in the society of the strugar, the society of rodent teachers, the society of rodent teachers, the society of teachers in the economy. It's not here. They don't delegate anyone. If we want to be productive society, to produce, to export, we certainly need some production. We can't live with their heads. We can't live between 2000 and 2012 when it was only important to introduce, not produce. We need some offensive industry, we need production to make our salaries and pensions based on production, to have a basis for them to grow, because otherwise we're going to live on the person in charge, not the person in charge, which was the philosophy of some previous system run by the party of the former regime. That's why I'm saying that in the future, we're going to change this law a little bit, we're going to reduce the number of members, and we're going to bring in the societies that I was talking about, that the knowledge that we're carrying is also applicable, that we're not just dealing with philosophical issues, but that when high school students come out of school in the economy, when they come out of the sawmills, rodents, grinders, locksmiths, locksmiths, when they come out of all kinds of professions... What I heard to the Tokars, you can do for a spin, and for me, the scrapers are scrapers, locksmiths. To us, the strudel or locksmith was the president of the state, even I say he was a little better than he was during the party of the former regime. So I believe that these productive knowledge can be shown far better on the political agenda, that when they come to the Assembly, and the pity that there are no scavengers, rodents, is not a mistake for political parties, but also for voters who are not more offensive, which are not teamed up and that they are not pushing themselves on any other list, so that we have more productive workers here, that we have more peasants. Why is there no society of agricultural teachers here, so that they teach us to produce better and to be in the Assembly, but here we are listening to some empty discussions that they call themselves academically congratulating discussions. What about production, education? For me everyone is educated who has cheeks. So everything else can be learned, and what about the knowledge that's almost intolerable and doesn't mean anything but philosophy, there's nothing to apply it to, what to stick to. So, when the debaters are discussing, they need to imagine what their contribution is in a physical sense, and in terms of people, to prepare themselves to produce the best they can, to make the best possible result, and to finally get this society to move forward, to gather around some trouble, and here these educated experts need to teach us, to unite ourselves around some trouble, to raise our heads, flags, the state, and to move forward, not to go back and forth all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36439	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has the authority of Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to say to the previous speaker that he reads that his representatives in the National Educational Council and we will choose them in the voting day, proposed the Business Association of Serbian textile and leather schools, the Community of secondary vocational schools in the field of wood work, the Association of Engineering Schools, the Association of Transporty Schools of Serbia, the Association of Economic, Legal, Commercial, Tourism and Food Schools of Serbia, the Association of Geodetic and Building Schools, the Association of Secondary Professional Schools in the field of work chemistry, nemesis, graphics and field of work of geology, mining and metallurgy for the group of metallurgy and the Association of Medical Schools of the Republic of Serbia, the Electrical Schools, the Association of Secondary Schools in the field of chemical work, non-metatry, graphics, graphics. Simply, it is not true what he said that there are no representatives of these educational profiles either among candidates or among members of the National Educational Council. Some of them are now elected, some are already on the National Educational Council, because we do not choose all members of the National Educational Council now. I think you let him speak in an inappropriate way of talking about the very big job we did. He talked with ridicule about this process behind us and what I think, where you had to react, he talked about the Faculty of Political Sciences, in an extremely inappropriate way, throwing a mockery of the fact that the dean of that university was physically attacked and that the motives and those behind the attack on that man were never established. Instead of commending the fact that the Faculty of Political Sciences, a university that established the term "academic congratulations" and the principle of academic honesty, which all the students of this university are obliged to do, you have allowed the next MP to make fun of that fact here. I think that in an unserious way he approached an extremely serious subject, and from what he was saying, he didn't even read the material. What he recommends to change already exists in this proposal, representatives of secondary vocational schools have members of the National Educational Council and even today we choose some of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36441	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36442	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, says - two members of the community of secondary schools are elected. Eleven candidates and only two members. That's what I'm talking about. So, out of these 11 only two will be elected, but that's why we have a Serbian Psychologists' Society, we have a Union of Education Activities, regular university professors, regular university professors again, University of Belgrade, University of Nis, University of Kragujevac, preschool institutions, here's the list. So, I read it carefully, but I didn't like it because, almost without these, it means only two are chosen. There is no one from agriculture, one member from the Association of Teachers of Serbia, the Society of History of Serbia, the Geographic Society, and all when you take a doctor, Mr, Doctor, Doctor, Doctor, All strange titles, Serbian Chemical Society, Serbian Philosophy Society, etc. It's about high schools and basic education. It wouldn't bother me if it was high education. I said that first there were a lot of members, 40 and something, to choose every three years, instead of choosing everything at once and being a smaller number and being as many from professional schools as possible, here you tried to make it as little as possible. We didn't pass that law in 2006, the party of the former regime passed it, and so I see that someone needs to defend that kind of proposal, which is based on the law that was passed in 2006. Someone defends what they defend can't. I also have understanding that I need to get a Ph.D. at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and I would defend there indefensibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36443	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: he should get a warning. ) (Vladimir Pavićevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, I now advertise members 106th and 107th. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. Instead of admitting that the MP who spoke earlier made a mistake during his speech in certain assessments of the election of half of the members of the National Education Council, the honourable MP made inappropriate assessments here for the actions of a national MP, as regards her work outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Your obligation has been respected, Mr. Becic, to point out to the gentleman in question, not only that it is not appropriate, but that if those words happen again, they will necessarily receive notice of such action under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 108, 109, 110 to 113. Plus, Mr. Becic, Mrs. Jerkov has very precisely described that in the National Educational Council we now have the choice of half the members, that some people are already members of the National Educational Council and that among those people who are already members there are representatives of those areas in which the observation is made that they are not there. So, absolutely this exposure was inappropriate, incorrect, and offensive to a single MP. Your obligation was, at least in this last item, to react to Mr. Becic, to warn the gentleman that such an act here is not appropriate and to tell him, that if you repeat that you will give him the warning measure. Then, of course, as we do with opposition MPs, the Administrative Committee, cutting the fines, paying the fines for what we call inappropriate action in our National Assembly, respected gentlemen and respected Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36445	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Risticevic has been given the right to a two-minute replica. Unfortunately, you have introduced a rule, personally, in this assembly that in the last sentence and in the last word, you say something that we presidents cannot react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36446	Yes, you can. If it's the last sentence, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36447	Mr. Pavicevic, dear professor, I'd like to ask you to behave culturally in the great hall of the National Assembly. You do not use the possibility that you, which is yours, should be obliged to turn off the microphone when you complete the exposure, the microphone remains on and that you communicate with the chairman in this way. I would ask you, you have introduced a rule in the National Assembly to say something in the last word or sentence that you should not say and where we presidents cannot react, we cannot warn and where you communicate in this way with political inexperience. You're reporting to the Rules of Procedure, and now you're resenting it to someone else. I'd like someone else to answer, and for all reason, I can act as chairman. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36448	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am advocating Article 103 of Special Position 8. - in the case of the position of the 7th member, the President of the National Assembly shall be obliged that the time used by the MP using the law of the position of the 1st member, subtracts from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if his parliamentary group remains time to search. I believe that Mr Pavicevic did not have the time left to search, but he misused the Rules of Procedure and instead of breaching the Rules of Procedure he had a classic replica from Article 104, so I can allow you to have the right to do so and should certainly be lenient to the opposition, because they act as Kalimer, constantly shouting – injustice, and I say I have four replicas in this session, and he has 64, maybe 74. That's what he's talking about, about the lenient presidents and I'm asking you to continue with that practice. The more they say, the more replicas they use, the more replicas they challenge, the worse for them, the more their ratings fall. I didn't say anything offensive. 106, 108 and 109. This member could apply to my previous colleague Pavicevic, and I did not insult any of the people's MPs, I did not mention anyone. I just said -- and who should be a doctor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and I would defend that college, and here I am going to offer myself a doctorate... Wait, the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36449	Please, Mr. Risticevic, that you respect each other a little more as MPs and respect and that you do not in this way cause a replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36450	Well, I want to get a Ph.D. at that college, both at his place and at Janko Veselinović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36451	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36452	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I remind you of article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, upon your obligation under article 108, to act if anyone in accordance with article 107 offends another MP. I am offended by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, and I demand that whether he did so in the last sentence and whether there is any other practice in this Assembly, that you use your rights, not the right, but the obligations of article 108, and that you give a warning measure to the MP who suggests that I say certain things because I need to doctor on the Faculty of Political Sciences. I'm proud of my education. I'm very happy to compare my education with the education of anyone from the SNS, and not all of us early in the morning, so we're doctoring...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36453	Miss Jerkov, I'd like to interrupt you right now if we don't continue what started happening in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36454	Anyway, I demand... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36455	Miss Jerkov, Mr. Risticevic has been warned. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, is not warned. ) He was warned when he tried again to say what he said in the last sentence. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: I demand that you punish. ) Ms. Jerkov, you are now mentioning a SNS that has nothing to do with what Mr. Risticevic said, since you know very well that it only belongs to the SNS parliamentary group, but not to the SNS, and you did not say the MP group and I would ask you, Ms. Jerkov, not to do so now, not to involve the entire parliamentary group or the whole party with your remark, a valid remark, which Mr. Risticevic said. I warned him and I think that... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: You did not warn him, which is your business. We can convince ourselves now. I'll give you a synopsis to see if I've warned him. I'm telling you that I will give you the opportunity to look and see that I have warned Mr. Risticevic. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: you should punish him. ( b) Would you be pleased if I punished someone in the National Assembly? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. I'm afraid I won't give you the satisfaction. Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36456	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues, today we MPs have a truly responsible task, I would say, and that is the choice of members of the National Educational Council. I will not, in my presentation, overly look back on the importance of this institution. I think so far my colleagues' speech has made it clear how much the National Educational Council is one significant institution for our education, for our country. What I'm going to look at very briefly is our education in general. First of all, I would have to rely on the presentation of my colleague Mark Atlagic, which is the importance of raising in the overall process of education which, I fear, is quite neglected in our education and that is what we teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers meet daily and believe that we constantly see how much of this has adverse consequences, and most of all, believe it or not, on our students. Also, I would refer to the reforms that our education has endured in the last ten years. Of course, education is subject to reforms and that, as such, it should be constantly modernised. However, in order to modernise our education, I'm afraid we're too quick, too unadjusted to accept some things on the side, and we've rejected some traditional classic values, I repeat classic values, which should never have been rejected. Perhaps what we received from the side needed to be a little smarter, a little wiser to implement in our education system. But what we are facing is, of course, the consequences of all this. One very important question – is our education perfect? Of course not. Have all the problems that exist in our education occurred in the last three years and can they be resolved in the last three years since the SNS has been in power? Of course not. So education is a continuous process whose problems, whose challenges we must face all of us, I truly deeply believe in it, and MPs from the ruling coalition and the consequences of the opposition, can be very well shown at the work of the board, that we all really have one deeply constructive position and I would really like it to be transferred in this room. So instead of looking at whether there's been a delay, it is, and what do we have to do now, focus all the time on being late and what have we achieved? Believe anything. What I really deeply believe in, what we need to focus on right now, are these candidates, or their biographies, that we all see together who are the people who have the best quality, the best biographies, and as far as I've read, and as many of my colleagues have agreed, there are really very good people who can do their work, with their experience to make a significant contribution to education in our country and really contribute to making education better, to be more quality. So let's throw away everything else, really look back at the candidates themselves, and make every effort together to choose the best people, the best candidates, because that's what we owe our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36457	Thank you, Miss Alexic. I ask services when the synopsis is done to deliver to Miss Jerkov. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36458	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Republic of Serbia who are following our work today, it is indeed a great pleasure for me to have a good opportunity today to talk about education and education in Serbia, and this is an opportunity to discuss in detail the members of the National Educational Council. As my predecessor, I will not repeat myself, I will not speak again about the importance of all segments and competences of the National Educational Council. We've received a list of proposals for members of the National Educational Council. This list is made up of 57 candidates. There are biographies of all candidates, and on the list we choose 21 members of the National Educational Council. The mandate of the proposed members of the National Education Council is six years. I would like to point out on this occasion what criteria should be in selecting members of the National Educational Council. First, that should be expertise. We've got a lot of expertise in the candidate's résumés. Then, it should certainly be the results of their work, then the experience because it is very important to link theory and practice. One of the principles should certainly be the territorial representation of members of the National Educational Council, and in any case both genders should be represented. On this occasion, I would refer a little bit more to the proposal for members of the Council proposed by teachers, in fact, the Union of Teachers of Serbia, given that I was president of the Teachers' Association and member of the Executive Board of the Union of Teachers of Serbia in two terms. I think we have extremely good two candidates, these are my colleagues Zdenka Milivojevic and Katarina Radosavljevic. Both extremely professional, highly responsible, come from practice in the classroom. They have so far implemented numerous projects at local level, but also at national and state level. I believe that we choose anyone that teachers will have a worthy representative in the National Educational Council and will represent the greatest and best interests of the child, i.e. the student, but also the best interest of the profession. This is also important, when we know the role of teachers, and I am sure that we all remember our teacher, and how important it is for teachers to develop a further personality, because teachers by their expertise, by their approach, but above all, and by their own example affect education and education. I wouldn't talk any further. I think and I'm sure we'll make good decisions on this occasion, choose the best candidates, and they'll justify our trust in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36459	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36460	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As we normally do, literally the last sentence for today's debate. So I would take the opportunity to thank everyone who contributed to this debate, who supported the initiative to resolve this important issue together. In that sense, I would also support certain comments, i.e. the conclusions, which is that we should certainly do our best to make this process and this process, and in each of the following, to be maximum efficient and to be done with maximum quality. With that in mind, I would agree with the assessment that, hopefully, we will no longer be in a position that we need to intervene like authentic interpretations to bring things into a track in which we should actually fall into the nature of things. The authentic interpretation we have brought into this sense is clear. This time as a committee to us, and I trust all of us as this co-examination, was more than helpful. As for the fact that we've assessed together that it's a matter of quality candidates, and I absolutely agree with that on my part. I believe that the insight into the résumés delivered is quite enough to confirm this together and I would like to invite all of us together to be wise in the election of the day when we plead, and I would like to wish the elected members of the National Educational Council on behalf of the SNS a happy and successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-14-0.u36461	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 11 and 12 of the agenda. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC Interpretation of the provisions of Art. 27, 28, 40 and 71. Law on corporate tax (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ No. 25/01, 80/02, 80/02-Dr. Law, 43/03, 84/04 and 18/10) and Article 41(3). Law on the tax procedure and the tax administration (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ No. 80/02, 84/02-correction, 23/03-correction, 70/03, 55/04, 61/05, 85/05-Dr. Law 62/06-Dr. Law and 61/07) You have received a proposal for authentic interpretation submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a review of the proposal for authentic interpretation. Does the proposing representative, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not have a list of speakers, I am concluding a search into the proposal for authentic interpretation. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on an authentic interpretation proposal in the voting day. Thank you. The session will continue tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., after discussion in detail.
