ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 90 MPs are present today. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic and Dragan Sutanovac. A draft agenda was submitted to this session. Before setting out the agenda, it is necessary for the Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts in accordance with the urgent procedure and the proposals for the addition and the proposal for a merger of the debate. Here you go. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43753	Your Honor, my first objection is to Article 86(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may also be convened within a short period of time from the term set out in Article 1, and that deadline shall speak of at least seven days, with the President of the National Assembly obliged to explain such proceedings at the beginning of the session. You called this session on Saturday, 19th in the afternoon for Monday at 10 p.m. with 73 agenda points of which is 70 per emergency procedure. And, in absolutely one word at the beginning of this session, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, you have not explained the reasons for the urgent procedure and the reasons why you called a session on such short notice. The only reason I can understand is to hide something and make it impossible for MPs to discuss in full capacity all the decisions proposed for today's session, which is the choice of public prosecutors and more than 20 laws, some of which certainly cause great attention to the citizens. I will only conclude by quoting what is here two weeks ago, European Commissioner Han said – The Assembly is a forum in which reforms are considered, reviewed, discussed, but ultimately they make decisions. In this respect, an emergency procedure should only be used in truly urgent cases and fully justified exceptions. I'd like to hear about the justified exceptions, as well as what I'd like to hear about why today, 22 minutes after ten hours, we've just begun our session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43754	Thank you. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have called for this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, extremely for Monday and for the need to consider the laws that are bound... (Marco Djurisic, from the post: What is this need? Well, don't shout. The point of decency is to listen to the answer, and the point is whether you want to hear it or not, so spare me, so I'm not playing crazy here if you don't care what I say. Is he all right? Okay. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I want to hear what is the need? That's what I'm saying for the public. So, to adopt, not you, since that's obviously not what you're interested in, that a lot of points are related to the deadline for adoption by the end of this year. As far as so many points are concerned, you know that 53 points, first 53, are proposals for selecting candidates for prosecutors, personal solutions, so there are up to 53 candidates and 53 points which do not change things because we will unite the debate and discuss this important point that should be adopted by New Year's Eve united, and we will reduce your misery by doing so, and we will vote of course on hurting the Rules of Procedure. Right? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. We were waiting for academic 15 minutes for MPs who had other obligations in this House to come before the beginning of the session. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43755	Dear President, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I request that the beginning of the session be moved. We got a call for this session with 73 agenda points yesterday afternoon. There was no technical opportunity to read all the laws and prepare the amendments, and right now while you're running the session, me and your colleagues are writing on the bench of the amendment and we won't be able to make it if the session starts in an hour or an hour or a half. That's why I'm asking you to move the beginning of the session to at least 14 hours so we can finish the amendments. It is therefore an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Cooperatives, the Law on Finance, etc. We won't be able to write the amendments, we won't be able to check what you put into these laws and how much those Serbian citizens will cost. I suggest you move the beginning of the session so as not to do much damage to the citizens of Serbia. So, 73 agenda points from yesterday afternoon, it was not possible to prepare quality for these points of the amendment. At least move the beginning of the session so we can read the laws and put the amendments on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43756	Thank you. In article 27, there's no way to move the session, you missed a member. And as for the debate, I am convinced that by the beginning of the agenda we will be discussing you will certainly write amendments with experience with the work so far, and the first 53 points are only discussions on personal proposals for the election of prosecutors. So I don't see at all what you'll be denied to write the amendments, start now or at 14 hours when we're about to finish setting the agenda. You want me to vote for the injury? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. ) The word is Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43757	Thank you, President. I am reporting for breach of Rules of Procedure under Rule 286 under which the MP has the right to be timely informed of the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. By calling this session on such short notice, you have made it impossible for the MP to use his right to be timely informed by the fact that the largest number of laws proposed for the agenda per session was delivered to the Assembly on Friday, and some on Saturday. So we had less than 48 hours to accept these laws, not to mention how little time it was to prepare. Some laws have been laid down, the proposal has been put in place to follow an emergency procedure, for example, the Cooperative Law proposal. When you read an explanation why this law is proposed by an emergency procedure, it is said that a uniform, legal, institutional regulation of this area is needed, thus enabling the quick resuscitation of cooperativeism and providing legal certainty and predictability of business. Please, please, now you've found it urgent, so urgent that we need to discuss this law within 48 or 72 hours. It is a very important law and important law for every farmer in Serbia. It would be extremely important for us to have enough time to prepare ourselves, to talk to people, to submit valid amendments. In this way we are disabled in the performance of our function and in the performance of our work. I'm asking, of course, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43758	We'll vote anyway. Let's determine the agenda first, see if it goes through the emergency procedure, and then we can discuss it. The proposer will certainly, if we determine the agenda, come here to answer questions why he believes an emergency procedure must have been put in place, since parliament is not setting up an emergency procedure, but eventually taking it down by its vote, if it does not want to establish the agenda. We'll certainly vote. The word is Zoran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43759	Thank you, Madam President. I'm advocating a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 108, which obliges you to take care of order at the National Assembly session. Please introduce this session in a normal manner, because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect us to work, to sit, not to pay us not to work. Also, I would like to inform you and ask you also to inform the People's MP, Mr Veselinovic, that there is no need for amendments to be written on the bench, these are still very valuable benches and should not be damaged in such a way that the amendments are written on paper. They can also be directed electronically. On the other hand, Madam President, all three speakers from the former regime voted at a session of December 29th 2009, according to the same Rules of Procedure, to merge according to the urgent procedure of the 22nd agenda. It didn't bother them at the time. In these 22 points of the agenda and the decision to elect judges on a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction, as well as a decision on the selection of deputies of the Public Prosecutor and all of this has been packed, imagine, with a decision on the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, with the Fire Protection Act, with the Law amending and supplementing the Accounting and Audit Act. Then those who now have a problem with this agenda, they should first explain why they voted for this agenda. On the other hand, the same session did not discuss one decision, Madam President, about 87 appointments for judges of general and special purpose, 87, for those who now have a problem with 53 prosecutors. At the same session, and here is the decision to elect judges for a three-year term.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43760	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43761	Just one more sentence. Madam President, they didn't mind 877 appointments, 877 solutions, that's when they voted for the agenda, because they supported that government as a proposing, and now they don't fit 53 points, 53 appointments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43762	Do you want to vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43763	No, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43764	There's no replication on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, it hasn't been established. Thank you. We don't vote on this. A group of 33 MPs suggested putting on the agenda as an emergency procedure – a proposal for the resolution of Igor Bečić from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 168 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the list of candidates for the election of organised crime prosecutors and candidates for the election of war crimes prosecutors, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – 16, the abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a Public Prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – 12, abstentions – there is no, 17 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of the Public Prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146 against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – 14 abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – 14 abstentions – there was no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – 10 abstentions – there are no, 18 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, 19 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 11 abstentions – there is no, 13 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – 13, the abstentions – there is no, there was no vote of 13 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Somboro, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, v – eight, abstention – one, 18 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the senior public prosecutor's office in Krusevec on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, 19 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the High Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 170 MPs present did not vote for – 146 against – seven abstentions. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – 19 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 170 MPs present did not vote for – 146 against – seven abstentions. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on election of a public prosecutor in Belgrade's Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 170 MPs present did not vote for – 146 against – seven abstentions. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Third General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 170 MPs present did not vote for – 146 against – seven abstentions. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Kragujevac Main Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Leskovac on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, the nine, the abstentions, there is no vote, 15 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – eight abstentions – 15 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Raska on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – eight abstentions – 17 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Obrenovac on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Lazarjevac Main Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, v – 10, abstention – there is no, 13 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Veliko Gradište, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – 12, abstention – there is no, 13 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – eight, abstention – no, 16 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Uzic Public Prosecutor's Office following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – seven, abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Ubo General Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – 13, abstention – there is no, 12 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornji Milanovac on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – nine, abstention – there is no vote, 15 of the total of 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Smederev Main Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – 10, abstentions – no, 16 of the 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Central Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – eight, abstention – there is no vote, 16 of the 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in Vrsac's primary public prosecutor, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – nine, abstention – there is no, 16 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – 11, abstention – there is no, there was no vote of 13 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Subotica on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – six, abstention – there is no vote, 18 of the total of 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – 10, abstentions – there is no, 15 of the total of 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Senti Main Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – 10, abstentions – there is no, 17 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Vienna on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – 13, abstention – there is no, 17 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – 12, abstentions – no, 15 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Kikinda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, v – eight, abstention – there is no, 19 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Arangelovac Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, v – seven, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Jagodina Public Prosecutor's Office on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – 10, abstention – there is no, 16 of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Tristenik, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146 against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Paracin General Prosecutor's Office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote on 23 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – eight abstentions – 12 of the total attendance of 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, against – 14 abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total of 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 13, the abstentions – there is no vote, 17 of the total 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v - nine abstentions – there is no vote, 21 of the total of 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – 12, abstentions – no, 22 of the 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Obligation of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad be put on the agenda according to the Business Company "The Oil Industry of Serbia" a.d. Novi Sad and transforming these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Loan Agreement (Profession of Competitiveness and Employment) be put on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – 12 abstentions – there is no vote, 21 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the Cooperative Law on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, 17 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the central record of temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered at the Business Registers Agency, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – 13 abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the total attendance of 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – 12, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Rights of Free Action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – 11 abstentions – no, 20 of the 184 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Social Generale Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade to meet the public undertaking's obligations, "Serbia" Novi Sad, based on a long-term loan contract for the construction of a divorce pipeline, Alexandrovac-Brus-Kopalnik-Raška-Novi Pazar-Tutin. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – 14, abstentions – there are no, 18 of the 184 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft law on chambers of commerce on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151, v – 14 abstentions – there are no, 19 of the 184 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to be put on the agenda of the draft law to be renewed after the elemental and other unfavourable. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 21 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a law on temporary adjustment of how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, 21 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not 160 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the points – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 167 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to identify the facts and circumstances in which the listening and publication of the transcript of the talks between Lydia Udovici "Continental Wind Serbia" and Bojan Pajtic, the President of the Ukrainian Government and the Democratic Party took place, given the fact that the alleged attempted corruption by JP "EMS" Director Nikola Petrovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 168 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 170 of the total attendance of 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of the sitting be supplemented by the points — Proposal for a law to be proposed. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 168 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – no, 169 of the 181 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic under Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43765	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, we National MPs of the New Party propose to include our proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education in 2015. Dear gentlemen, if you would like to vote on discussing our proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, our proposal would be to bring this item of the agenda together with the amendment and addition of the Law on Scientific and Research Action, that is to say the draft law, which the Government has otherwise referred to in the assembly procedure, which we should discuss during this 10th session of the National Assembly and to organise, respected gentlemen, a single search of these two points, namely these two draft laws, the additions of the Law on Higher Education and Amendments and the additions of the Law on Scientific Research Work. Why, dear gentlemen? Because the solutions in these two draft laws are complementary, connected, conditional, and that would be one reason, I think, for all of us MPs to declare one small victory in the fight against plagiarists, and for the great principle of academic integrity, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. In our proposal to supplement the Higher Education Act, it states that the principle of academic integrity should be included in that member who defines all the principles of the higher education system in our Republic, and then in a special member, we predict that academic integrity is defined by voting for the fact that academic integrity is based on independent writing and strict respect for other people's copyrights. In addition to the proposals sent by Minister Verbic in a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Scientific and Research Action, I think that we could honor the gentlemen to invite the suspects here, the suspects finally to come to a plagiarographer, to determine which of the high-ranking state officials used other people's words, sentences, paragraphs, and paragraphs, and did not say that these were other people's words, sentences and paragraphs, but rather those words, sentences and paragraphs, respected gentlemen, represented them as his own. We finally have conditions to declare victory after 15 months of fighting...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43766	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43767	... The struggle for academic congratulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43768	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 174 MPs present. National MP Slobodan Homen proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law supplementing the law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Penal Code. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal on freedom of fear. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Rehabilitation Act. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43769	I have proposed to the National Assembly to amend and supplement the Rehabilitation Act in order to prevent what is happening these months, perhaps even the year in the Republic of Serbia, for which all the authorities have been responsible so far, and this is an attempt to rehabilitate people who are persecuting non-insects, members of other nations and other religions. An eclectic example of this is what today, a process that is happening today in front of the Supreme Court in Belgrade, an attempt to rehabilitate Milan Nedic, a man who was a servant of the occupier, and a man who is responsible for the deaths of thousands of patriots, Jews and Roma, and a man who today in Serbia is causing a huge controversy, so that representatives of the ruling party cannot even plead on this issue. I ask the National Assembly and ask most of you to boldly press the key and allow this bill to be placed on the agenda today, in addition to the 76 points you have placed, this point has great significance, much greater than what you can say in the camera. If we as a people are not ready to separate the grain from the weeds. If we are not ready to say who was the occupier and who was the anti-fascist and freedom fighter, then this assembly can talk about much less important things and make laws on regulating the lives of Serbian citizens who don't know where they fought for or what the values represent. It is extremely harmful for the Republic of Serbia to try to rehabilitate Milan Nedic, as it is a preparation for the rehabilitation of fascist Dimitri Ljotic. Yes, yes, and then you'll nod your head instead of accepting this proposal to make it impossible to amend two members of the Rehabilitation Act that would make it impossible for people who carried out the persecution, to adopt harmful regulations, anti-racial regulations, people who persecuted unsuspecting people, patriotism, members of other parties, members of other peoples, and religion. I don't know why you're nodding your head. Do you like these procedures?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43770	So you suggest, and this communication does not fall under the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43771	I see, fellow climate-headed, I don't know if he supports me or criticises me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43772	That's what you'll see at the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43773	But they don't know either. That's the problem. He needs to make a statement. So, I'm asking you to plead with me on this. Positively, because by adopting and discussing this law we will make it possible for Serbia's courts to defend themselves against illegal, anti-civilisation, shameful attempts to rehabilitate. Don't be surprised if you get the same thing for Achif Efendi in a few days. Don't be surprised if it comes to you for people hanging citizens in Banat and Folksdojcher. Don't be surprised when it comes to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43774	Thank you, time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not a total of 148 members of the people present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the National Assembly's proposal for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Do you want to explain? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43775	Of course I do, and I think this session is the right place to do that, in addition to these 73 points of the agenda as 74th or 75th, a point can be put in place that provides for us to declare the National Assembly's resolution on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922. The basis for this proposal is found in Article 16. Serbia's constitution, in the UN Convention, which was voted on December 9th 1948, and in the fact that more than 20 states, including the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, have condemned genocide against Jews. Of course, this resolution will have nothing to do with the current policy of today's state, but it is a good example of putting aside a historical and one political fact and a view of what is allowed in international law, what is allowed in relation to people, among states, so that we do not get to the situation as we now have proposals for the rehabilitation of Nazi servants like Nedic, as it has already been with Draža, as it is prepared for others. It is a good time and political, I say, this session that is so called in a very constitutional and very business way, that in this little point, seventy-seventh thing, we put another one that would circle this whole picture of Serbian parliamentaryism at the beginning of the 21st century. Of course, I am sure that the seriousness, morality, knowledge, commitment, patriotism, fellow Members and fellow Members of the assembly majority will lead to their voting in favour of my proposal, because it will prove that they are worth it, that both Serbian citizens chose in the elections a year and a half ago. If anything goes wrong, it will be proof that my assessment of seriousness, patriotism, wisdom, dedication was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43776	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – two abstentions – there is no, 148 of the total 164 MPs present did not vote. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point of the bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43777	I would only ask you, before I start talking to you to check the quorum and presence, because I see a lot of places where the cards stand, and not the MPs, so it would be interesting to determine how many of us are there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43778	I ask the MPs to establish the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. It has been determined that 110 MPs are present in the hall. I'm setting a five-minute break until the MPs come down to the O.R. [[after breaks]] Please insert your cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I find 131 MPs present. We can keep working. Here you go, Ambassador Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43780	Thank you very much for the great attention given to my bill. Thus, as the 85th or 126th item of the agenda, the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements can be put in place. The reasons are more than clear, the existing law is not an adequate solution for this area, and we heard it from the competent minister and vice-president of the government at the spring session and my colleague Pavicevic and I promised the minister that we would prepare the law and 21 April this year, the law was laid down and I propose to the Assembly and this is 10 or 12 times to propose it with a desire to help the ruling majority, that since it is not able to reach some good law itself to at least adopt a good solution prepared by experts from the New Party. The reasons are very clear, which is that in this way we would get a law where planning and editing of space would be regulated in a way that provides for the coordination of public and private interests and the development of the state, improving quality of life and rational use of resources, democratic decision-making processes on how and conditions of use of space, harmonising and balancing the interests of users of space to provide a suitable place of public interest, timely, timely and efficient adoption of planning documents and urban plans, timely preparation of technical and other documentation that is the basis for building, i.e. bringing land to the planned purpose, the professional application of planning documents with sufficient data based on which an assessment of the necessary investment can be made to bring land to an adequate purpose. Of course, if this law were passed and all these parameters were put into operation, it is clear that there could be no major wild construction in the history of humanity known as "Belgrade on Water" so that there could be no legalisation of what is illegal, amoral and anti-natural, and this is happening today in Serbia that has to suffer a forward policy. However, I appeal once again to your wisdom, to your expertise, to your intelligence and commitment to the public interest, to suppress what you need to contain and to vote rarely as when for a good law that will improve the situation in Serbia and lead to me talking for over three minutes and five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43781	Time, yes, thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43782	Thank you, Madam President. I, I think, perhaps thirty times, suggest, in any case for more than a year already I ask the MPs to adopt only one single amendment to the Criminal Code, which is to include among the crimes that do not go out of date the crime of stealing babies. There are no new circumstances. In 2013, the Council adopted The European Court of Human Rights ruled in the event of a lawsuit by one of our fellow citizens against the Republic of Serbia, decided that it had violated the right to privacy and family and life and obliged the Republic of Serbia to adopt legislation that would treat this problem by October 2014. In December 2015, I ask you for the thirtyth time to adopt this bill. I really don't know what this is about, nor can I know, but I ask that at least one of the MPs who doesn't vote for this bill for a year say at least one word that doesn't make him vote for this bill. With this problem, someone might have watched in the last two weeks, they were doing one show on TV. I think, at least personally, I didn't, until I met these people, no insight into what kind of problems these people are facing and what kind of whirlwind regulations, bureaucracy and administrations they get when they suspect their child who was said to be dead is not dead, but is a victim of human trafficking. So let's not deny them the right to have a longer period of time to add themselves up, to see that something was wrong, to check their doubts and to allow them to respond for a longer period of time, because this is the only thing that is required by this bill and the only change that would be entered into the Criminal Code is that this crime, like a few other crimes that are already among the crimes that are not outdated, is being included in that category of criminal acts. The president has last time banned you from speaking the names of MPs who do not vote for this bill, which only encourages me in my thinking that you are actually ashamed not to vote for this bill and that one session will come, that one of these proposals will come, when perhaps without the President of the Assembly ringing, you will support this proposal, and I hope that she will soon press the bell, because apparently only on the bell and react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43783	Thank you very much for the compliments you gave. It's just, I'm referring you to the Constitution, to read the Constitution, it's very useful in what you say some time and consult the Constitution, that it's forbidden to call people because of your commitment and vote in parliament. They don't answer for that, as I explain. I'm putting this proposal to the vote, with a bell or no bell. Here you go. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one abstention – there is no, 122 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43784	Thank you. In March 13, 2015, the defence minister passed the subordination and orally made a decision to launch a rescue mission that ended tragically, with the death of seven people and the destruction of helicopters near the "Nikola Tesla" airport. Afterwards, commissions made two of their reports, which clearly found that there were violations of both protocol and subordination and the case was handed over to the prosecution. The D.A.'s office, except for the controversial news that someone's making statements, we don't have any news. Immediately after the tragedy, I suggested that a survey committee be formed in the Serbian Parliament, which would examine all the facts and answer two important questions that are not available in any report and will not be answered by the defence minister, because he is believed to be able to do so, we testify that he believes he can do anything, because unlike many other citizens who do not enjoy the protection of the rule of law, as well as the generals of the Serbian Army, who are punished by a disciplinary measure of the ban on progress, he enjoys discretionary and protection of the rule of law and the Prime Minister. It's not good for anyone, but there's no ears to hear it. So we asked to answer two important questions -- who gave the defence minister information, who explained to him that it was necessary to launch a rescue mission? On the basis of what information did he adopt an oral order and thereby violate the co-ordination and rules of communication in the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence? The second question, which remains unanswered, who changed the flight plan at the time when the aircraft was already on its way to "Nikola Tesla" Airport? All subsequent remarks by the defence minister saying he is proud of the mission and to repeat it, are not such that they should be commented on. That's all he said about himself, that he could be proud of a mission that killed seven people and gave a warning that it could happen again. That's why, in order never to happen again, a committee of inquiry is necessary. The will of the majority not to support this proposal to set up a polling committee is the will to illustrate the situation that when everything that is written on the papers about the rule of law is crumpled and thrown out the window, then the rule of law on the same such papers returns through the door. What our proposal is, through dialogue and the work of the survey board, to do what we are the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly, competent to do as a job, is to determine all the facts and control of the work of a minister who is clearly irreplaceable, as are seven dead people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43785	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 128 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43786	Thank you. Two members, one of which is essential, give an amendment to the Arms and Ammunition Act, and the other one, of course, is, according to its content, making a commitment to the bearers, holders, gun owners, above all the guns and guns, to pass a mandatory medical examination, to have within a certain time period, which is subject to amendments, to have them healthy and ready to hold and carry firearms. This law does not apply to persons who have an official authorisation to hold, carry and use firearms, including guns and guns, in various sectors of our society, from the military and the police, through private security, nor does it apply to associations that truly cherish and hold their position responsible for the weapons they use, such as hunters' associations, but rather wants those who legally own weapons to be registered, recognised and recorded as human beings who will be responsible for the use of that weapon. Not only will we prevent the violence that appears to be a firearm, not only is it in line with the bill submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac, that a registered domestic bully is taken away by law by firearms, the remark that if he decides to kill, he will kill, so he does not have a weapon, you can easily escape from other types of weapons, the bullet is difficult to escape. I really don't see any reason why we shouldn't agree on that. The comments of the public who are talking to us about this bill is that the problem is what is proposed by the opposition party's representative. I don't mind the same law signing anyone, and I'll be happy to keep my mouth shut about a debate that would still put the law on the agenda. I fully understand that most in our Assembly are our constitutional and legal right to propose bill proposals seem boring or annoying, as I note again that the MPs of the majority, who must have, together with us, left the room number 126. I'm asking you not to do that. I just said - if you're going to crowd the rule of law on the papers that it says and throws out the window, it comes back through the door. It's a common shame. The rule of law is good for everyone. As long as the agenda is determined, we MPs are obliged to sit in the hall and participate in the vote, so I ask you to establish the quorum again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43787	Before the vote to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards. I find 126 MPs present. I put forward a motion for Parliament, Comic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, with abstention – did not vote 121 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Police Act. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43788	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I repeat, this is the proposal of brave women from the Autonomous Women's Center and a proposal for a legal solution where a bully, who has made violence against a woman, is to be removed from the family home, not that a woman who has suffered violence, a woman who is in bruises, with cuts, must hide from a bully and flee, to leave her home, to leave her children, to leave her family hearth, and that the bully remains home to watch television and to have no consequences. With this legal solution, we ask that for 14 days, the bully be removed from his family home, that the police protect the woman and not allow contact of the bully with her, that the woman has the right and the possibility to consider in those 14 days whether or not she will launch a divorce case, whether or not she will press charges against the bully. That's how we send word to every bully that the state stands and supports women, that it supports the weaker population, that it strikes a bully. I think this is a very good measure of prevention. This measure exists in many European countries. For the first time, it was introduced into Austrian legislation some 20 years ago and has very good, practical results, so in the EU accession process, I think we should also accept this one legislative solution in order to support women, to reduce violence, and violence and victims of violence, we only remember when international violence is against women, and then we all agree on that. Let us, by means of a legal solution, try to strengthen their role and send a clear message to the bullies that the state is fighting against them. I also want to tell you, as an ORL doctor, that there is a lot of violence, that women come often with the bullys who are with her, that women often deny violence, that many times say – I tripped in the bathtub, fell on the stairs, and when you see the right hand of a man is always the left side of a woman. I also appeal to my colleagues, doctors, you are the first to come from the state to contact the victim of violence, you are the first of the institutions of the state to face violence to suspect any violence committed against a woman to report to the police. Although a woman denies that violence is committed, there are clear indicators, if the left ear has haematoma, if a drum button is pierced on the left hand side, if it's on the left hand side of the jaw hematoma, it's probably the right side of the bully. So, appeals to colleagues, doctors, to report violence, and to you as my colleagues in parliament asking us to support women from the Autonomous Women's Center, these brave women who tried to get in the way and help them do it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43789	I'm putting a motion to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 114 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to determine how the funds of the Republic Pension Insurance Fund (PIO) have been spent in the last two and a half decades, starting from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2015 and whether the use of the funds of this fund and their non-intentional spending has been misused. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43790	Thank you, President. On behalf of the Turnover Movement, I have submitted a request for the education of the survey committee to determine how the funds of the Republic Pension Insurance Fund (PIO) have been spent in the last two and a half decades, starting from 1 January 1991 to 31 December 2015 and whether there has been abuse in the use of the funds of this fund and their non-intentional spending. I submitted this request in co-operation with the association of Serbian pensioners' unions who sketched and determined the need to determine who spent the pensioner's money and which is why there is no money to pay off pensions and which is why they have to choose whether to buy bread or medicines, and there is no money for both. This request for the establishment of a survey committee is required, among other things, to determine whether the funds of the Pension Disability Fund for the construction of certain capital facilities and who is now their owner; whether the funds of the PIO Fund were used before and after the bombing for the purchase of residential and other facilities; whether someone from the PIO Fund might have received an apartment in 1999; whether the funds of the PIO Fund were used for the severance of individual employees in the PIO Fund who were then re-employed in that fund; whether and where 10% of the privatisations were used were intended to end in this fund and we do not know where they ended; how and under what conditions the adaptations of the PIO Fund buildings in Belgrade, Novi Sad were made, etc. So, pensioners aren't looking for anything else, they're asking -- where's our money, where's our money that we've been working, not sitting on a mattress, smoking, but working 30-40 years out in that fund? Where's their money? Did they leave for someone's apartment? We ask that it be established that a survey committee is formed. I was surprised by Mr. Vukic's signature on a memo I received the other day, in which he said it was not necessary to form this survey board. So Prime Minister Vukic says it is not necessary to form this polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43791	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132 out of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Jovanovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43792	In 2011, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the National Assembly adopted a Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, but the practice has shown that often banks do not implement this law until the end, because nowhere is quantified what greening is and what is an interest rate that should not be allowed. Many EU countries have limited the interest rates of banks, especially when it comes to citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. This is not the case with us, and with this proposal, I wanted to limit the interest rate at which banks commit citizens and businesses to 1% below legally tight interest rates. I think this way we can prevent the greening and illegal wealth of banks at the expense of citizens and at the expense of a weakened economy. The law, i.e. the amendment and addition of laws, cover both small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are also the weakest in the process of negotiating with banks. Countries in the region of Croatia, Montenegro and Macedonia have limited interest rates to banks with different measures and at different levels. This was also done in Spain on consumer loans, in the Netherlands, in Poland. I think it is appropriate that both in Serbia, given the material position of citizens who are extremely poor, to limit interest rates. From 2006 to 2012, Serbia's economy paid almost 27 billion euros in interest and exchange rates. A significant part of these funds would be savings and huge investment potential, and it is known that only investments provide faster economic growth and new jobs. In this situation, the economy is only a flow boiler for paying interest to banks and taxes to the state. We have the most interest rates in Europe in a situation where all economic aggregates are in the descending path. We have the highest interest rates and the moment the National Bank of Serbia reduces the reference interest rate. This does not adequately imply the interest that banks make on loans to citizens and I do not think there is any reason why we, as the highest legislative authority, do not pass a law that will in some way limit the amount of interest they will make to the citizens. The paradox is that a citizen who, for example, wants to raise thousands of dinars at another bank's ATM, can pay 200 dinars of minimum interest, which is about 20% for only one transaction. That's what this law also wants to limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43793	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 127 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43794	Another attempt to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of political parties that would allow all parties in Serbia to have approximately equal opportunities in the campaign. With these amendments and additions to the law, we propose and Serbia's left suggests that there are fundamentally clear restrictions on the republican level, at the local level and the province level, as many donations as the political party can receive from legal entities. So, from businesses and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia, from natural persons, it must not exceed a certain amount that we have listed in the draft amendments and additions to the law. If the sum is exceeded, We have given a short term of seven days in which those funds must be returned to him who has donated them, and if that is not fulfilled, a prison term is provided. This is the only way that in a situation of such a unstable democracy, such an authoritarian regime as it exists today in Serbia, the parties have a certain legal limited option through which they cannot raise funds and cannot have more money than what the law has prescribed. Otherwise, if we do not adopt this and this is not discussed in Serbia, including the obligation of the media with the national frequency to give the exact same conditions of party representation in the pre-election campaign, which is the same subject of our next amendment and addition of the law. We will not have an equal democratic match and we will not have a competition in ideas, programmes and policies, but we will have a competition in money, and since you are champions here and because at this point your party is unofficially holding over 2m euros in the current account, you have over 2m euros in your current account today, who will compete with you in the elections and in what way? With captured, closed media, I'm talking about electronic media, without being able to compete in an even way, without citizens hearing the same ideas and programs that parties present today in Serbia? You'll probably ignore our proposal to amend and supplement the law, because obviously, I wish I wasn't right, you don't care that the parties have a legal limit on how much money they can get. If adopted, it will be an important step in establishing democracy in Serbia and in establishing equality, equality of political entities. What we have today is all but that and therefore I ask you and I urge you to still support this proposal and to discuss these amendments and amendments to the law in the National Assembly, where it is also a place to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43795	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 126 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Janko Veselinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law on additions to the Criminal Code. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43796	The law is necessary for the survival of democracy in Serbia, or for the return of democracy to Serbia. The law amending the Criminal Code sanctions the purchase of votes, sanctions threats, blackmails, sanctions everything that is happening today in Serbia, to win power by buying, threatening, rather than free elections. A team earlier last week that nine opposition parties stood behind the demand to demand fair elections and to ask state institutions to take over their role, take over the role one man has taken over from them. We have asked in this regard and a meeting with the president of that largest party, but today here on behalf of the Turnover Movement, but also of all nine opposition parties and movements, I demand that you return to the institutions the opportunity to act, to make a decision to rise above party interests and support this law, to sanction anything that threatens the free will of citizens to run and be elected. This will today is at stake in Serbia. That's what the reports of international institutions say. But that's what the citizens tell us. In the Old Town of Belgrade, where you buy votes for home chemistry and food packages. Stop that, give the institutions their jurisdiction, let the citizens choose freely. Don't intimidate the citizens. There have been stories these days about the existence of party armies, prosecutors, courts. And that should be examined, but it is necessary to sanction those acts that threaten the freedom of choice, the freedom that is at stake in Serbia today. I suggest you press the key, accept this law amending the Criminal Code, to accept that the next election is fair. None of these crimes that need to be sanctioned go to anything, but to free elections, to make it impossible to paint ballots in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43797	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 128 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted by the Assembly. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on temporary adjustment of the way pensions are paid. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43798	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, since 1 October at the beginning of each session of the regular session on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, the ZS, we are trying to put into the agenda the Law on the termination of the Law on the temporary establishment of the way pensions are paid. The motive for submitting such a bill is that we believe that the method of fiscal consolidation to which the Government resorted more than a year ago is unfair, because all the burden of saving puts and transfers on the back of citizens, and the state does not deny any of its costs. On the contrary, the cost of the state when it looks at the realisation of the 2015 budget has increased. The only reduction that has been made is a reduction due to a lower pension payment transfer, as well as a reduction in salary payments for state administration employees. The state continues to spend on special services under the contract completely non-transparently about 50 billion dinars. Only for next year is it scheduled to be spent on that basis over 400 budget seats. We could see that specialised services and contracted services would be spent on money. This is more than twice as much as the government has "saved" by reducing the number of pensioners earned by fair, 40-year-old work. What is further discouraging for these citizens of Serbia is the fact that today the state will take over the debt of "Serbiagas" came in the previous years of nearly 200m euros. So, about the amount of money it will be saved by being reduced in 2016. We think he should break up with this bad policy. We believe that it is harmful on a number of grounds, that citizens who have reduced pensions are life-threatening because of such a situation, but also because of the fact that sooner or later, I believe, it will be found that the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid is anti-constitutional and illegal and that the state debt created on this basis will have to pay off eventually. That's why I'm calling on you to put this harmful law out of effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43799	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 130 MPs from a total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43800	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow MPs, and this law since 1 October at the beginning of each session of the regular session on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, are trying to put the agenda on the agenda. We sent the bill to the Assembly at the end of June of the month when the tax settlements for 2015 began to arrive to the citizens of RS, and they were increased by 20, 30, 40, in some cases and several times larger than they were in the previous year. The government, i.e. the competent authorities of the local self-government, explained this to the legal possibility of changing the zones on which the value of the tax-paying facility was determined, as well as the fact that for the first time the land-owned tax was also calculated. Our proposal has several changes regarding land rights, land properties. We believe that it is clearly necessary to change in the law that taxes are charged to the difference of area larger than 10 acres, so that the area of up to 10 acres is not taxed. It is written in the current bill that the area of up to 10 acres is not taxed and that the area of more than 10 acres is taxed, and our proposal is to tax only the difference. Due to this interpretation of the laws, tax rulings for Serbian citizens who have received solutions to pay land tax are huge and many of them have been put in a situation that they cannot pay and are now threatened by taking away property because of tax evasion. The other thing we're asking for to change is a way of calculating property tax on a building or apartment, so that it would be considered non-taxable 25 square meters per household member. We believe that this is appropriate for the situation in Serbia, that the largest number of citizens live in buildings, i.e. apartments or houses that are on average up to 25 per member of the household, or if we say that one average family has four members, that is 100 square meters, and we believe that this should be the basis for the non-taxable part and that the square is taxed. The last important thing is that in the future, the property tax cannot be increased by more than 7% per year so as not to come into a situation like this year when tax solutions were several times higher than in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43801	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 128, of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43802	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People, I believe that in these nine times that I have tried to put on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, a bill on supplementing the law to add value to know what the amendment is. Namely, our idea is that baby food is taxed at a special tax rate of 10% in Serbia, not 20%. We had a chance when the government changed the VAT law to discuss through the form of amendments that we had given back then, and the minister said then that he didn't think it was impossible, impossible, and that there would be no major savings and that only the administration would increase in the exemption from this tax, as well as to open the possibility of possible abuses. Today you voted on the agenda that it is necessary to put an emergency procedure on this point and amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. The essence of the law is a proposal by which the MAP is initiator not to pay 300 dinar taxes for applying for a newborn child's residence, and that is a good proposal. We will vote and support this proposal. Of course, I believe that the argument will be that this will help to make the difficult material position of young people who are founded by families in Serbia, but we can of course discuss whether this release of 300 dinars per year can happen in one year, or possibly in some cases two, three, but very rarely, that this will be a great success and the contribution of this government and the authorities to the fall of birth in Serbia. I invite you to vote on our proposal for this reason. In any case, it will mean more savings for families who have babies, because the fact that baby food is wherever it is and where it costs, and that applying a special 10% tax rate instead of 20% would mean much more savings than this savings that you propose by exempting the residence tax. We know that it's not enough and we keep repeating when we put it on a proposal to vote on this agenda point, to put it on the agenda, that it's just the beginning, that we're sending a message that the state cares about its future and I urge you to vote this time, unlike the previous nine times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43803	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make it clear I am closing the vote and I am announcing: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 127 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43804	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have proposed that a member on health care be amended and Article 11, Article 14, Art. 102, 104 and 124, and according to the provisions of the Health Protection Act as a system-based social care law, under equal conditions in the territory of the Republic, respected colleagues and colleagues provide health care to a population group exposed to an increased risk of disease, to the health protection of persons in relation to prevention, prevention, early detection and treatment of diseases of greater, social and medical significance, as well as to the health protection of the socially endangered population, and that health care covers the population classified as 16 categories as you know. In this part of the law, the law contains a shortage, since it does not cover the unemployed working population, farmers and the informal sector aged 15 to 65. For these reasons, starting from the relevant constitutional principles on the Republic of Serbia as state justice and equal rights and equal availability of the health care system, it is necessary to extend the circle of persons covered by healthcare, particularly unemployed persons, unemployed persons, persons employed, farmers, as well as persons employed in the informal sector from 15 to 65 years of age. An existing legal solution regarding social care at the employer level provides that the employer organises, provides for, from its means the health care of employees in order to create health-responsibility conditions and to protect health at the workplace of an employee, including the implementation of prevention measures, early detection of occupational diseases, work-related diseases and prevention of work-related injuries as well as preventive checks of employees. I believe that this solution is dysfunctional, difficult to implement, and that this aspect of social health care should be removed from the employer's level at the level of medical work. Also, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, it is necessary to intervene on Article 102 of the Law, so that the Institute, starting with that it is a health care institution that performs primary health work and conducts health care for certain groups of people, i.e. health care work in certain areas of health care, is established as well as the Institute for Health Protection of Workers of Specific Works. Thank you. As far as the territorial principle of health care organisation is concerned, we feel it is necessary to norm that a city in which there is a seat of the university can establish an institute for war medicine from the territory of the statistical region, and I ask you to support my proposal in order to amend the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43805	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 129 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43806	I thank the chairman. So, I proposed an amendment to the Health Protection Act and that of the section relating to specializations. This assembly majority voted a few months ago that specializations can be obtained, and those that are declared deficitary, no day of work, simply to compete with the Ministry of Health and what is interesting is that people who receive these specializations themselves should pay for specialization. What's also interesting, is that what was prescribed by law, and I think it's an extremely good and quality solution either has to have at least two years of work experience before getting specialization if you're employed in a health care facility from a network plan, to end it. It was abolished by your decision, and I don't think it's good, because over the past two years, it's been seen whether someone has an affinity for certain branches that should be specialized in specialization by the Ministry of Health, and I suggested that we change this law and especially in the financing part, because according to your decision, specialization is funded by specialists themselves, which I don't think is good, and that it's discriminatory. I think that specializations should be financed from the budget through the Ministry of Health so that everyone has the right to specialize under the same conditions and not only those who are able to pay, and I speak from about five to six, possibly seven thousand euros depending on which specialization someone enrolls. In order not to read to you members of the law means, I insist that respected colleagues and colleagues return the old system of getting specialization because first it is necessary to know if someone is gifted for a particular area, especially the surgical branches of medicine, and this is seen through the work at the clinic. Second, so-called. Deficitary specializations are not specialised outside medical institutions, but that if the state needs some speciality of such colleagues receiving such specializations, they must be employed at a facility where the specialisation is lacking. Thirdly, that specializations are not funded by the specialists themselves but by the burden of the republican budget, i.e. at the appraisal at the position of the Ministry of Health in the Republic budget. I hope that you will accept this proposal because we would give everyone equal chances that they can compete, because it is very difficult to specialize in Serbia where the people don't work, the anger of the money, and what you voted for, we're not saying that specializations can only be obtained by those who can pay, not by those who were the best during their studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43807	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 131 out of a total of 143 MPs. Ambassador Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. The word is Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43808	I would like to thank the chairman. I have suggested that Article 151 be amended and a new position be added after item 1 which is said to be exceptional from item 1 of point 1 of this section of the preventive systematic review on the basis of compulsory health insurance for employees and unemployed working age, farmers and informal sector aged 15 to 65 shall be carried out by a specialist in medical work at the competent medical institution, and the review results report shall be submitted to the selected physician. It's a follow-up to the bill of amendments I've read a little while ago, it's a matter of working medicine. In accordance with Article 151 of the Treaty The health insurance law of the selected physician shall, among other things, organise and implement measures to preserve and improve the health of the insured persons, detect and combat the risk factors for the occurrence of the disease, carry out preventive checks, measures and procedures, including health training established as the right of compulsory health insurance. I believe that the Department of Medicine should carry out extremely cited provisions of the law on preventive systematic checks based on compulsory health insurance for employees, unemployed working age, farmers and informal sector aged 15 to 65, i.e. these tasks are carried out by a specialist in the Medical Services at the competent medical institution, and the review results report must be submitted to the selected physician. This solution represents a alignment with the provisions of the Health Protection Act, in particular of Article 95, according to which the basic Department of Medicine in the House of Health deals with preventive activity if there is no institution in its territory. Also, I cite that the basic Department of Health Medicine is doing the job of preserving and improving health, preventing early detection and treating diseases related to work. Under two, he proposes and conducts preventive health checks. Under three, he's doing prior facial examinations with factors of difficulty in employability. Under four, he does professional orientation and professional selection. Under five, he conducts a health education of a working-age population aged 15 to 65 years. Under six, he performs professional medical procedures and activities related to job identification with increased risk. Under seven, they participate in organising first aid, rescue, evacuation in the event of injuries to employees, or thanks. He performs other tasks in the field of health protection at work in accordance with the law. For these reasons, I believe it is necessary to nominate the Health Insurance Act in a way that is proposed in the normative part of this bill, and to ask you to support this proposal by your respected colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43809	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I would ask you to establish the quorum. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. (Alexander Senic, from the site: He asked to establish the quorum. What was he looking for? Now we'll see at the vote and we'll do it again. It comes out nicely at the vote and then let's do it again. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 of the total of 148 MPs present. You want us to determine the quorum? Okay. Please insert your identification cards. 132 MPs are present. So the vote is yes. Is that right? Let's move on. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Information and Media Act. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43810	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, 14 times I suggest that the Assembly reconsider the bill you adopted over a year and a half ago. I remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the right to be informed, as one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, means that everyone has the right to be informed in truth, in full and in good time about matters of public importance. Public interest in the field of public information cannot be achieved solely by forming public services at national and regional level, as such asymmetrical public interest is prevented from forming public services at regional level. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that more than a year ago, by voting these two laws abolished the possibility and the rights of local self-government to finance from their regional funds, i.e. local public services. There are only two public services left for RTS and RTS. What you voted on more than a year and a half ago is that the TV subscription is converted into a fee and thus made its obligation to pay. What is still very interesting, the way of funding these two radio-television public services, they finance themselves so that TV is financed by funds collected in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and that 70% of the funds collected from the subscription, in the AP territory, remains for the financing of RTV, and 30% goes for financing of the state public service RTS. What I am asking you to accept is my proposal to amend the law, which will give us the opportunity to form radio television within Serbia, for the territory of Serbia under Sava and Danube where more than half of the population of the Republic of Serbia who do not have the right to their regional public services and do not have the possibility of timely, accurate and comprehensive information by a public media service. The way the funding is proposed is the same as RTV is financed, it is that 70% of the funds collected under Sava and Danube go to finance radio television with Serbia, and 30% go to financing the state public media, which is RTS. I hope you will accept this proposal and thus allow citizens under Sava and Danube to have a quality that gives public media service, which they lost by voting this law, and it feels a great need because people... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43811	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 125 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43812	I am very consistent and persistent, the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43813	I believe, rather than just pick up faster so we don't sit back and shut up while you think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43814	No, it's just work. So, I'll pick up where I left off. With 30% of that collected subscription, RTS would be funded. What is still very important is that national minorities under Sava and Danube do not have the same rights as national minorities in Belgrade and Vojvodina, because they do not have the possibility of using an adequate term, adequate terms on public media service, as they have national minorities in Vojvodina, which is absolutely good and I welcome. So I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that you accept my proposal to give citizens under Sava iDunava the opportunity to have the same rights and obligations as citizens living in the territory of the City of Belgrade and citizens living in Vojvodina. What is interesting is that the citizens of Nis on two occasions in the assembly session have unanimously decided both the position and the opposition that the City of Nis needs public media services and supported the proposal to form a regional public service. What's interesting is that these same citizens have collected over 40,000 signatures in support of the public media service, and what's even more interesting, that MPs representing the citizens of Nis, and in this assembly hall have them I think 11, don't vote for what they have to do with their fellow citizens who sent them to this high house. And I am asking my colleagues, especially colleagues from Nis to vote for this proposal, to put this proposal on the agenda, so that we can discuss, normally with your suggestions, you may have a better idea of how to formulate it legally and give the citizens under Sava and Danube the opportunity to have a public media service, which they give money for. What you voted a few days ago, I just want to remind the citizens of Serbia that the subscription will be lower, i.e. The tax will be lower, but more than four billion dinars have been allocated in the Republic budget for RTTV and RTS financing, and that is the money of Serbian citizens again, and I am asking you colleagues to accept my proposal to correct the injustice that has been done to Serbian citizens under Sava and Danube over a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43815	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 129 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". The word is Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43816	Thank you. And this law has been repeatedly proposed to this congregational majority who does not want to accept it again to discuss it. In fact, she did debate a few days ago when you adopted, and I'm going to remind you in a later presentation, of changing a special law with special investor rights. To remind the citizens of Serbia that this law is proposed to change because I am deeply convinced that it is the first to be anti-constitutional, because it encroachs on the non-cute, the Constitution guarantees the right to personal property, to deny the Expropriation Act, because it gives the possibility for the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade to buy private property and, behold, wonders are not used for the general public interest, because only then can there be expropriation of private property, but rather to give it to another investor who will make housing facilities for the market and for making profits, because no one is doing anything without making profit, especially in this branch of construction. What I suggested was that we correct the injustice against the people who were exploited by your decision, and on the other hand I suggested that this law be changed, because the gross things that will be done in the part of a Belgrade municipality are financed from the republican budget by the money of all Serbian citizens. I think it is normal for the city of Belgrade, as the largest city in its budget, to finance the expropriation and municipal equipment of that part of a municipality, not to do so from the Republic's budget. This year, gentlemen of the assembly majority, you have allocated over two billion for this purpose, two billion pairs that are collected from citizens of Serbia, and which is better to be used to create new jobs, because all of us here are saying that in Serbia we need jobs and our activity, I hope all of us, is aimed at making Serbia's citizens get to work as soon as possible, those who are unemployed. With these two billion that you have allocated to finance the "Belgrade on Water" project, I think you would open a lot of jobs throughout our Republic, and I ask you to accept this proposal in order to make good use of budget money for the general good of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43817	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr Blagoja Bradic, the MP, proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43818	Thank you. I suggested that a new law on contributions to compulsory social security be taken into consideration. I will remind you, respected colleagues and colleagues, as well as citizens of Serbia, that this Assembly reduced 2% by its decision on 1 August 2014 at the health contribution position and transferred to the pension position. What does that mean? As Minister Krstic, the finance minister at the time, explained, the RFO budget has a surplus of money and that 2% should be transferred because there is a huge lack of money in pension payments, that the republican budget is much strained and that these 300 million, and we are talking about the figures as he said about 300m euros, is being transferred to the pension position in order to finance regular pension payments from around 100 to 150m euros instead of 400 to 450m euros at the time. It's part of reducing the deficit of the republican budget. So it comes from that money, because it relaxes the pressure of the budget and the giving of pensions. But what happened on the other side? On the other hand, we have a shortage of money in the RFO, and I'll remind you that, I think, in 2014, the RZFO budget was 236 billion dinars. With this reduction of 2% that budget was reduced to 215.7% billion in 2015, and it was projected for 2016 to 219 billion, if I remember the budget that was adopted a little over two weeks ago, but not to increase the quality of providing health services, those four billion, a gro of these money goes for severances, because as you have decided, layoffs in health, so these people will get severances. That's the money. What is very important is that these cuts in money are not reduced due to compulsory health insurance, they remain the same and that means that this reduction we have a hole in the republican budget of the RFO of some 30 and some billions of dinars, and I ask you to accept my proposal, so that we can return the money to the RFO and allow the citizens of Serbia to be treated in quality, because without money there is no quality health care, and that the pensions in some other way are replaced, so that pensioners are satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43819	You're way out of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 140 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr Blagoja Bradic, the MP, proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43820	Thank you. It's, uh, respected colleagues and colleagues, an amendment to Article 41. I would ask you to pay attention, a very important member of the law, which talks about the right repairs of teeth and the treatment of mouth disease to the burden of the RFO. All of you colleagues, especially us doctors, have committed to working towards the benefit of Serbian citizens, to try to provide them with a better quality of life and to provide them, to try to provide quality healthcare, and this article 41 speaks about dental health care, because they have the right to treat their teeth and mouths according to this valid law up to the age of 18, students and high school children up to the age of 26, pregnant women and some specific types of diseases and over 65 years of age, some services, and over 4.5 million working-age residents of the Republic of Serbia, who are full of the RFO budget, do not have the right to dental care. By accepting my proposal, we will correct this injustice and those who give money to the RFO give the opportunity to fix their teeth on the burden of those funds that they themselves pay to the RFZO. I don't understand why I don't have the support in this room, because we heard the prime minister say we have a great situation in the republican budget for 2016. This is a figure of some hundreds, possibly 200 million dinars, I don't want to bid, but it's easy to calculate. It's easy to calculate from RFO colleagues. There is no need to employ new people, there are enough dentists in institutions that operate in the plan of a network of health institutions of the Republic of Serbia, so all they need to do is buy expendable materials for filling and that the citizens of Serbia can get this opportunity to, I repeat, charge themselves, that's their money, that they can fix their teeth. Fourteen times you turned down this proposal of mine. I hope we'll take the 15th time today to discuss it. You may have a better proposal as far as dentistry is concerned, but I think we need to meet the citizens, because in this era of high unemployment, it's going to mean a lot to home budgets that they don't have to separate the money for dental repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43821	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the conversion of credit to Swiss francs into euro. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43822	Thank you, Your Honor. I see that the MPs of the majority don't care about this subject, even though yesterday...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43823	Explain why we should put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43824	... Citizens, who took credit in Swiss francs, and the day before yesterday, instead of celebrating St. Nicholas, were on the streets of Belgrade, as were their children. They are the only ones in Europe whose government has not found fit to solve the problem, and they are the only ones in Europe whose government has sided with the banks. The other day, the BiH Parliament unanimously decided on a request in the Swiss francs, whose conversion is being made into the euro. What's he saying? It says, unfortunately, that the Serbian government is on the side of banks, banking monopolys and that it does not care about Serbian citizens. The fact that citizens sleep under tents, what their children see every day that they will lose their roof over their heads, does not help and does not matter, nor does the government of the Republic of Serbia care about it. The turnover movement has passed a law on the conversion of loans to Swiss francs into the euro. We have done nothing else that has not been done by colleagues in other parliaments in Europe. Our proposal is to make the banks profit, but not to let the citizens lose their roof over their heads. It will be this I am sure of one of the first laws to be passed when the Turnover Movement is in the congregation majority. It'll be one of the first laws that we'll take the burden off the heads of citizens who can't feed their families and keep their apartment. Neither did the other governments have understanding during a certain period. However, when people calculated that they had to repay seven or six loans, and they took one, then they sided with their citizens in Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. The only government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43825	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43826	And this law deals with citizens, deals with the interest of the Republic of Serbia. This law, respected colleagues, concerns the proposed norms that would limit the use of plastic bags in Serbia. This law goes towards cleaning up Serbian rivers, streams, that trees are no longer decorated with plastic bags, and that Serbian citizens don't throw money for plastic bags, because these bags cost something, and each bag is embedded in the price of a product, in the price of bread, in the price of milk, in the price of another product, and there is no bag on the market today that is cheaper than a dinar. Each bag is embedded in the price of the product. The proposal for this law amending the Law on Trade is to prohibit traders from calculating the price of plastic bags at the price of the product, but to leave it freely to the citizens whether or not they want to buy a bag. I submitted this law on behalf of the Turnover and to protect the nature, the natural wealth of the Republic of Serbia, to have clean ornaments on which agricultural products are grown, organic production, but also to protect the pocket of Serbian citizens. I don't know who would be against this law. I'll remind you, dear colleagues, I've given this bill to a green parliamentary group. All MPs from all parties were for the adoption of this law. This law was meant to be a unique proposal for all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't that happen? Because the government of the Republic of Serbia, which only had to make an assessment of the impact of the law, has never done that assessment. So the Turnover Movement wrote the law, delivered it to MPs, the Serbian government only needed one day, or someone in the government to review the law and see what its effects were, and its effects would be positive for Serbian citizens. We suggest that you now support this law, because it is useful for Serbian citizens. Press the key and limit the use of plastic bags, as is done everywhere in the civilized world. Support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43827	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 138 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43828	This is the fifth proposal submitted by the Turnover Movement to the National Assembly, which is now on the agenda for the vote. I am pleased that some MPs voted in favour of this bill, or government, but I am sure that there would be much more for this Serbia not to be managed by one man, or that he does not decide everything, or even to prohibit the use of plastic bags, or that it is limited, but I cannot understand it. The draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, among other things, I also file for this paper, which I hold in my hand. What's on this paper? There's a notice on this paper for the payment of administrative fees for the cover of one document. One administrative fee is 390 dinars, and another administrative fee is 30 dinars. On this fee of 30 dinars, which you have to pay in the bank, you pay the cost of a 60 dinar bank, and if you're a depositor in that bank. If you're not, more. So you give 30 dinars to the state, 60 or 90 dinars to the banks. Why doesn't this law change? Because the state of Serbia protects the banking monopoly. This is not going anywhere in the world for one favor, which you pay someone, you pay three times the value of that service. It wasn't always this. A year ago, the banks raised the lowest price of their services to 60 dinars, under the approval of the NBS, Mrs Tabakovic, whose apartment was bought, or bought by Serbian citizens for her money, in return, gives at least 60 dinars to banks. I asked one of the ministers the other day why they didn't stop it. He said they can't tell the banks, and he can't say it in public. So, this law goes against bank monopolies, for banks to earn, but not to peel the skin off the back of Serbian citizens who can no longer bear such charges, no interest, no expenses, no unpublished, no unexplained, no obligations they have to banks. Support this law and protect the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43829	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branka Karavidic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on Public Information and the media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43830	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow MPs, the European Commission's report on the state of affairs in Serbian media nearly two months ago is regrettable, defeating. There is no progress in applying the Public Information Act and the media. On the contrary, the obligation to enroll all owners, directly or indirectly, who own more than 5% of the shares in the ownership structure, by August of the month. The adoption of a set of media law in August 2014, unfortunately, is the only success that the European Commission recognises. So we haven't moved since August 2014. Is it important for us to know who the media owners are, all those who in some way influence the formation of our opinion, and I don't think there are those who are obliged to enroll in the Register with more than 5% share in the ownership structure, but also those who own less than 5% of the shares, and who exercise effective control over editorial policy as sources of funding for more media. The practice, unfortunately, has shown that there are such cases. My proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, is to amend the Law on Public Information and Media. It provides that all owners must be entered in the Register directly or indirectly regardless of the amount of the share in the founding capital. In this way, we will ensure transparency of the ownership structure, which will help restore citizens' confidence in the media, while at the same time reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media. I would remind you that one of the Constitutions guaranteed rights and the right to inform but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality of the availability of legal persons, and for these reasons I call on you, this is certainly the ninth time, to support this proposal, to find amendments to this law on the agenda of this session, primarily in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ambassador Aleksandar Senic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the property tax law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43831	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, I have proposed a law supplementing the Property Tax Act, which provides that, until the existence of the IAS Law, profits and other fixed incomes from users of public funds and the IORP and IORP may not be established in a higher amount and in a different way compared to the established immovable property tax bases for 2014. Therefore, especially in respect of the fact that the paid power of the population in dramatic decline, especially after the Pension Reduction Act and as a salary in the public sector, is the fact that a large number of citizens have lost their jobs due to the restructuring or bankruptcy of companies, it is inappropriate for any tax increase to come to their home addresses in such circumstances, which includes, of course, property tax, which has been sent to them by local self-government. The increase in property tax is only an essential and indirect way of continuing wage cuts and pensions and further poverty among citizens. The lack of economic growth and the decline of public income cannot be compensated by tax increases, and this further undermines the economy. Our proposal is that all those who have received a solution for 2015 and whose base of property tax has been increased in this year, do not pay that tax, but that the tax base is reduced, and that the tax base is returned to the level of 2014 and that those who paid the tax to be recognised as a subscription for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43832	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 144 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43833	Thank you, Madam President. The law that I have proposed, as regards the Law on Supplements to the Law on corporate tax, determines the incentive measures and tax relief. Liberation for legal persons who employ new workers, and especially for newly established legal persons in economically underdeveloped municipalities, and only those who carry out production activities. We have a situation that Tomislav Nikolic announced more than 100 billion euros of foreign investment in the coming period in 2012 and unfortunately not a single part of it has been achieved. In the meantime, the Law on corporate tax has been amended and there are a number of analyses that our legislation, therefore, our tax system is destabilising when it comes to attracting foreign investment and when it comes to the creation of new jobs. We recently passed the Investment Act, which turns out to be just another bad marketing move without any benefits for attracting foreign investment. If we had adopted my proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate income tax, we would have made it possible for all companies that, indefinitely and at least every two years, to employ new workers, for the tax base to be reduced by the amount of earnings paid by new employees. Also, special attention in this proposal focuses on economically underdeveloped municipalities and is foreseen for newly established legal entities in economically underdeveloped municipalities to be exempt from the profit tax for the first three years since the start of the operation, provided that they are engaged in manufacturing activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43834	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 149 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Igor Bečić, acting on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Article 170 and Articles 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the first joint joint investigation on the list of candidates for the selection of organised crime prosecutors and the list of candidates for the selection of war crimes prosecutors, the proposals for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors in the senior public prosecutions and proposals for decisions on the selection of public prosecutors in the basic public prosecutor's offices, points 1 to 53 of the proposed agenda; the second joint principled search of the law law law on amendments to the law and amendments to the law of the law of the law of the Republic of Serbia, the amendment of the law on amendments to the law on tax and the tax administration, the proposal of the law on the law of the law on the law of the law of the law of the Republic of Serbia, the law of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for amendments and amendments to the law of the law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law of the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law of the law of the law of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the EU, the EU, the EU, the law, the law on the law on the law relating to the law relating to the law relating to the law relating to the law of the law of the European to the law of the law of the Republic of the law of the law of the law of the Republic of the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the EU, the European, the EU, the European, the European, the law of the Member of the law of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member States, the Member States, the Member States, the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Does the promoter want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. That's not how it works. You know I always warn you. I have to determine these suggestions first. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Goes. Don't go, just take it easy. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to put on the agenda for emergency acts, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 against – 13, the abstentions – there are no, seven of the 162 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. List of candidates for the election of the Prosecutors for Organized Crime and the List of Candidates for the Election of War Crimes Prosecutors; 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; 3. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac; 4. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar; 5. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin; 6. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka; 7. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje; 8. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranj; 9. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis; 10. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo; 11. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev; 12. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica; 13. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica; 14. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor; 15. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin; 16. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Šapec; 17. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac; 18. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec; 19. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the High Public Prosecutor's Office in the King; 20. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina; 21. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; 22. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; 23. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Third Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade; 24. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac; 25. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega; 26. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovec; 27. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lebanon; 28. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Raška; 29. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Obrenovac; 30. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lazarevec; 31. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han; 32. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Veliko Gradište; 33. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec; 34. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic; 35. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ubb; 36. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornji Milanovac; 37. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev; 38. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Central Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica; 39. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in Vrsec's General Prosecutor's Office; 40. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad; 41. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica; 42. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca; 43. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sainta; 44. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna; 45. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin; 46. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Kikinda; 47. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Arangelovac; 48. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina; 49. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Tristenik; 50. Proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office; 51. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka; 52. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec; 53. Proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Paracin; 54. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods; 55. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; 56. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act; 57. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax; 58. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens; 59. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance; 60. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes; 61. Proposal for a Law on Obligations of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad according to the business company "The oil industry of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia; 62. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project to Improve Competitiveness and Employment) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 63. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Generale Bank of Serbia, a.d. Belgrade, to settle the obligations of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad on the basis of a long-term loan contract for the construction of the Alexandrovac divorce pipeline – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar - Tutin; 64. Proposal for a Cooperative Act; 65. Proposal for a law on chambers of commerce; 66. Proposal for a law on the central record of temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered in the Agency for Economic Registers; 67. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act; 68. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process; 69. Proposal for a Law on Reconstruction after an elemental and other accident; 70. Proposal for a law on the temporary arrangements for the payment of fees for public media services; 71. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Action; 72. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act; 73. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land; 74. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; We are moving to work on the established agenda of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43835	President-in-Office, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure say the MP reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after she has been done and I have done so. You have not given me your word, but you have continued to read and to put proposals on the agenda in order to dissipate this Parliament's work further and make it impossible for me to exercise my rights. I wanted to point to your injury, to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure which speak of the possibility to combine the debate of laws whose solutions are mutually conditional and connected and I wanted to ask the question of the motion to unify the debate, Mr Bečić, in which way are the mutually linked and conditional solutions of the Law on Income Tax, on taking over the debt of “Serbia”, the Law on Cooperatives, the Law on Scientific Action and, say, the Law on the Temporary Determination of Taxes for Public Media Service? It's five laws of 17 or 18 that are united into one item of the agenda that has absolutely nothing to do with it. The solutions in them are not connected or conditioned. I accept if I can explain to me how these solutions are connected and conditioned never to report for word in this assembly by the end of the term, if any of the MPs who voted for unification can explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43836	No questions are provided in this part of the session. You can ask me a question tomorrow and I don't see how the Rules of Procedure has been broken. You've broken it now, asking questions as part of the Rules of Procedure's injury. I don't get it, but if you want us to vote? (Yes) Marko Djurisic throws. That's great. I'm pleased, I'm very pleased and I bear your insults with pleasure. I think the decency will win after all. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 201(2) of Article 192(3) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the list of candidates for the election of organised crime prosecutors and the list of candidates for the election of war crimes prosecutors from item 1 of the agenda and the proposals for decisions on the selection of public prosecutors from points 2 to 53 of the agenda. Does Minister Nikola Selakovic want to be the speaker of the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43837	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today on the agenda of the National Assembly, there are proposals for the election of public prosecutors, i.e. public prosecutors' prosecutors in the prosecutions, senior prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia and 19, in the main public prosecutors' offices of 33, as well as lists of candidates who are proposed to perform their duties, to elect the Public Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crimes and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its 159th Articles of 2nd and 3rd, stipulates that the public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government and that the mandate of the public prosecutor takes six years and that the same person can be re-elected to the post. On the basis of Article 74(1), The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office, on a proposal from the government, elects the National Assembly for a period of six years and reiterates this provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Just acting in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law, the State's Chief Prosecutors announced a choice for an organised crime prosecutor, a war crimes prosecutor, a senior public prosecutor's office and a basic public prosecutor's office in the Republic of Serbia. In the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, this ad came out on September 9th, and in the daily "Politics" on the same day, so on September 9, 2015. All candidates who have taken part in this contest shall comply with the law of the general and special conditions for the performance of the public prosecutor, in accordance with Articles 76 and 77. Public prosecutor's law. Consent to Article 28. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, the State's Chief Prosecutors, educated the commission that established the timelyness and completeness of the applications submitted. Full and timely applications were submitted by the commission to the Council for further proceedings. The Commission was comprised of three representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and two experts outside the Public Prosecutor's Office. When it comes to the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Commission's deputy public prosecutor, Gordana Janicjevic, the appeal prosecutor or public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, Milan Kalac, and the public prosecutor at the appeals public prosecutor in Kragujevac, Miljana Doncic. From the ranks of experts, the commission was comprised of the Belgrade Court of Appeals Judge Aleksandar Vujic, addressed to a special department of the High Court in Belgrade and the director of the Justice Academy Nenad Vujic. As you can see, unlike senior and primary public prosecutors, when it comes to the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, the government forwarded the list of proposals to the National Assembly for decision-making. The government is the only authorised promoter, the National Assembly, who makes the choice decision. What's important is that all the proposed candidates meet, as I said, the general and special legislation prescribed conditions for the performance of this function. It's the same with the candidates for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. The list of candidates for the selection of organised crime prosecutors includes Miljko Radisavljevic, current prosecutor for organised crime, Mladen Nenadic, lawyer, member of the Cačka Attorney's Office, Tomislav Kilibarda, public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Sonja Milicevic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar. As far as the war crimes prosecutor's office is concerned, Stanojkovic Snezana, deputy public prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, followed by Terzic Dejan, the court's judge in Novi Sad, sent to the special court department in Belgrade, Djordje Ostojic, deputy member of the republical public prosecutor Milan Petrovic, deputy prosecutor for war crimes and Miroljub Vitorovic, deputy prosecutor for war crimes. When it comes to 19 senior public prosecutors and 33 main public prosecutors, you received proposals in the materials and made proposals in the form of one candidate. For all candidates, the same thing I said about the candidates for the organized crime prosecution and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. For the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, a senior public prosecutor in Belgrade was proposed, the current deputy in the same prosecutor's office, Natasa Krivokapic, for the First General Prosecutor's Office, Ljubvoje Djordjevic, the deputy prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and the public prosecutor's office in the First General Prosecutor's Office. For the Second Basic Prosecutor's Office, Nebojsa Popovic, also deputy senior public prosecutor in Belgrade, currently v.d. or v.f. The second general prosecutor in Belgrade. For the Third General Prosecutor's Office, the deputy public prosecutor in the same prosecutor's office and current performer, Boris Pavlovic. When it comes to the main public prosecutor's office in Obrenovac, the proposed candidate is Daniela Sidelic, also acting as public prosecutor in this public prosecutor's office. For the General Prosecutor's Office in Lazarevec, Milorad Gajic. For the more public prosecutor's office in Valjevo, Dragana Markovic. For the main public prosecutor's office at Ubu Milena Miljanic. For the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, Dragan Lopushina. For the main public prosecutor's office in Smederev, Dragana Popovic. For the main public prosecutor's office in Vrsac, Tihomir Knezevic, otherwise a lawyer, a member of the Vojvodina Bar. Then for the main public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, Dejan Rakonic, deputy public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For the main public prosecutor's office in Backo Palanca, Milan Knezevic, deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office. For senior public prosecutor in Zrenjanin, Zoran Djuran, deputy public prosecutor at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica. For the public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin, Mladen Vujin, deputy in the same prosecution. For the primary public prosecutor in Vienna, Michalj Pakai, deputy public prosecutor in this public prosecutor's office. For the primary public prosecutor in Kikinda Svetlana Vlajkov, otherwise a public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin. For senior public prosecutor in Sombor Zoran Divjak, deputy in the same prosecution. For senior public prosecutor in Sremska Mitrovica, Gjorge Mahovac, otherwise Deputy Attorney General at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Stari Pazova. For public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Sremska Mitrovica, Nada Radmanovic Grozdanic, otherwise a deputy in the same public prosecutor's office. For the senior public prosecutor in Subotica, Miroslav Krkelic, otherwise public prosecutors at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor. For the main public prosecutor in Subotica, Lidija Panic Miletic, otherwise deputy public prosecutor in the same public prosecutor's office. For the main prosecutor in Senta, Mirko Gašovic, public prosecutors at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Kikinda. For senior public prosecutor in Sapac, Zoran Obradovic, otherwise public prosecutors at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac. For senior public prosecutor in Kragujevac, Dejan Veljkovic, public prosecutors in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka. For the primary public prosecutor in Kragujevac, Slobodanka Rakovic, deputy in the same prosecutor's office and current public prosecutor's office. For the main public prosecutor in Arangelovac, Zoran Ivanovic, deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Arangelovac and acting as public prosecutor. For the senior public prosecutor in Jagodina, Radoslav Vukkovic, otherwise a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina, and for the main public prosecutor in Jagodina, Aleksandar Cvetkovic, otherwise public prosecutors in the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina. For a public prosecutor at the Paracin Public Prosecutor's Office, Ms Marina Makariev, otherwise a deputy in the same prosecutor's office, was proposed. For senior public prosecutor in Krusevec, Bratislava Z. Petrovic, otherwise Deputy Prosecutor of the General Public Prosecutor in Krusevec. For the main public prosecutor in Krusevec, Dragan Jovanovic, otherwise a deputy in the same prosecutor's office. For the main public prosecutor in Tristenik, Violeta Vukmirovic, also deputy in the same prosecutor's office. For the senior public prosecutor in the Kingdom, Avram Antonijevic, Deputy Public Prosecutor in the Kingdom and Public Prosecutor in the Kingdom. For the main public prosecutor in the Kingdom, Snezana Jamic, otherwise Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office. For a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Raska, Mrs Dragica Rosic, otherwise the deputy prosecutor in the same prosecutor's office, is scheduled, while for the chief public prosecutor in Cačka, Ivan Zaric, the deputy prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca, was proposed. For the main public prosecutor's office in Cačka, Danilo Vujicic, deputy public prosecutor in this prosecutor's office and chief prosecutor in Gornji Milanovac, Milena Veljovic, was proposed, otherwise a deputy in the same prosecutor's office. For the senior public prosecutor in Novi Pazar, the proposed candidate is Milena Mrvic, otherwise the judge of the Main Court in Novi Pazar. When it comes to the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, the proposed candidate is Marko Dimitrijevic, deputy general prosecutor in Požega. For the primary public prosecutor in Požega, Jelena Curcic, otherwise a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega, was proposed. For the main public prosecutor in Pozarevc, Snezana Dubajic, otherwise deputy prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc, was proposed, and Mr Sasa Milojkovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec, was proposed as the primary public prosecutor in Velika Gradište. For the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Mrs Boris Mitic, otherwise a deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, was proposed. For the more public prosecutor's office in Vranj, Mrs. Daniela Trajkovic, otherwise the deputy prosecutor in the same prosecution. For the chief prosecutor in Vladic's Han, Dragan Nikolic, deputy in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han. For the senior public prosecutor in Leskovac, Mrs Ljiljana Zlatanovic Jankovic, otherwise Deputy Prosecutor of the General Public Prosecutor in Nis, and for the General Prosecutor's Office in Leskovec, Mrs Renata Cvetanovic, Deputy Prosecutor of the General Public Prosecutor in Leskovac, was proposed. For the primary public prosecutor in Leban, Mr Stanislav Stankovic, deputy in the same public prosecutor's office, and for the chief prosecutor in Negotin, Mrs Ksenija Brankovic, deputy senior prosecutor in Negotin, was proposed. The latest in a number of proposed candidates is Mikica Milenkovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, as a candidate for senior public prosecutor in Prokuplje. The government has proposed, as you can see in total, a total of 54 public prosecutorial posts in Serbia, out of 85. The missing five senior public prosecutors and 25 primary prosecutors are prosecutors who have taken the obligation to carry out additional rounds of talks with candidates who have already been through one type of talks, i.e. selection, and I am confident that the state's larger prosecutors, in the most recent period, will come up with proposals from not-said prosecutors. Also, I am taking the opportunity to say that for the first time the application procedure, but also the proposals, was carried out in a very complex way, to give recognition to the members of the Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors and the State Council of Prosecutors themselves, in a large and complex business. That job lasted almost two months. It was necessary to hold talks with all candidates, appreciate not only their work results, which were appreciated under the rules on criteria and criteria for assessing the results of the deputy prosecutors' work, but also to listen to their vision of the future promotion and organisation of the prosecution's work. So much for this. I really wouldn't read the individual biographies of candidates that you had the chance to get. I am convinced that after this great and good job that has been done, we will get additional quality in the work of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia and I am proud to point out something by which the party I belong and who has run for office in this place, to this responsible role of the minister of justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, differs from all previous parties, which is that in the last 25 years, the public prosecutor's office, i.e. the public prosecutors in Serbia, have been an absolutely variable category for each change of government and for the new formation of the parliamentary majority. For the first time in our modern history of multi-party parliamentarianism, the change of government was not followed by a change in public prosecutor's office. At the end of November, in early December 2009, fellow prosecutors who were elected as public prosecutor served their mandate fully and this is something that makes this government different from all previous ones. I personally believe that this is a major progress and a major factor of stability within the public prosecutor's organisation, and I am convinced that the proposed solutions, if you support them in Voting Day, will contribute as much as possible to the quality of the work of the public prosecutors and as much as possible to fight organised crime and corruption as possible, which is one of the absolute priorities of this Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43838	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43839	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow this direct transfer of the National Assembly, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government at their session on Friday, discussed proposals for a list of candidates for the selection of public prosecutor's office holders in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, as well as proposals for candidates for public prosecutorial functions in senior prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, as well as proposals for candidates for public prosecutorial functions in basic prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. The committee unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly to support the government of Serbia's proposal when it comes to a list of candidates for the election of organised crime prosecutors and the election of war crimes prosecutors, as well as proposals for candidates to elect senior prosecutors in senior public prosecutors and the election of prosecutors in the main public prosecutors. In no word has any member of the Committee disputed any proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I have the authority and the obligation to propose to the National Assembly to accept proposals for the selection of senior prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, as well as proposals from the Government to elect basic prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, and we will find ourselves in the voting day whether we will give support to any of the more candidates who have proposed to elect prosecutors for organised crime, as well as to elect war crimes prosecutors. I am asking you to accept both the Government's proposal and the Committee's proposal and that this complex work, as the Minister said, be the end because all these prosecutors have been given a mandate, which is 31.12 this year and we must be prepared and they must be prepared to continue or take office if these are new people in the prosecutors' offices in the Republic of Serbia. What I can say on behalf of the Committee is that we have concluded and very pleased that the whole procedure has been carried out since the launch of the ad, to the formation of a proposal for the selection of public prosecutorial functions in the Republic of Serbia, and I think it should be so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43840	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43841	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that the Government's representative is not present, but, of course, my obligation is to the citizens and I want to talk to you about something I didn't think I was talking about. In principle, how this should work, as the Venice Commission imagines, which, you know very well, also suggests a change in the Constitution, and the key reason for the change in the Constitution are chapters of course 23, 24, i.e. the alignment with certain accepted standards. The big problem in European integration so far has been and has been these two chapters, and I am afraid that with this today's act, the way this is done today, we will enter into an even more complicated situation and that the problem will be bigger when it comes to European integration for these two most important areas. What exactly is this about? Our constitution provides for this procedure presented by Mr. Minister and she's clear. The state council proposes candidates, the government determines and sends the Assembly a proposal for candidates, the Assembly according to its choice and, of course, the government can propose to anyone on the list. And as for the aspect of constitutionality, it's absolutely not controversial. If we are talking about the aspect of future European integration, the announced changes to the Constitution, which have been announced several times by representatives of the ruling coalition, I think this is and how controversial. In particular, what is the key problem here, to be simple and to be clear? It is absolutely not a disputed procedure spoken of by Mr. Minister, which is the procedure for applying candidates, elections, evaluations, and I do not want to interfere in the procedure of the State's Major Prosecutor. Whether it did a good job or not, it's absolutely their thing and they're claiming something that I'm holding in my hand right now, it's a decision to set up a list of candidates for the election to be a public prosecutor. So this is a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors, a proposal addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia. In my opinion, until that moment, until the government is sent, there are no problems and I think that it is as the State Council has suggested, we should not even discuss today the choice of prosecutors and judges, especially given the bad experience of the past, the great criticism that the current ruling coalition, the apropo reform of the judiciary, transferred to us as previous authorities, full of regrets and often the previous days we could hear about it, and if you think we were wrong then, I don't see why you're repeating what you think was our mistake. So I'm going back to the subject, the State's Chief Prosecutor has given a certain list of candidates. The government set out the proposal and directed it to the Assembly. What exactly did the government do? As for the list of candidates for the selection of prosecutors for organised crime, he proposed four candidates. I don't mind, that's how the State's Major Prosecutor did, so the same thing when it comes to selecting a war crimes prosecutor, in particular six were proposed, we have five, but the first five were proposed and I don't think that's the problem. I personally believe that the government should have done otherwise, not to accept the State Council's proposal more than five candidates, but to ask them to propose one, because the essence of the prosecutor's independence, as the Venice Commission imagines, was right or not, but this is the standard that we're going to have to achieve, is that the government is not at all wondering about the prosecution's proposal, but that the State Greater is directly sending to the National Assembly, and that the National Assembly is in a way that in fact merely confirms the State Council's decision and that in that way, the more the impact of either the executive, or in this case, our legislative authorities. Since it is such a constitution, I would not mind the government acting as a flow water heater, if it had proposed everything proposed by the State's Chief Prosecutor and had proposed complete lists of candidates, and the National Assembly was authorized to choose, and I would have argued that it would always vote for that candidate first proposed by the State's Greater Prosecutor, namely, to literally and not choose, but only to verify solutions. But what happened? This is what, unfortunately, a simple analysis can determine that there has been a difference and what has been done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? That's my question, and that's why we as an MP will be against a certain part of the solution. In particular, the government has tabled 53 nominations for the election. So, all the prosecutions that the minister listed in Serbia, then, these two prosecutors for organised crime and war crimes. In itself, nothing would be questionable if it were all a DVT proposal, but in as many as 24 cases, so in 50%, the DVT proposal differs from the government's proposal. To make myself clear, here's what it looks like. Indisputable, all these candidates passed and received a certain number of grades. I don't want to mention names or speak specifically about people, but there are only three examples of three prosecutions here. In one, instead of regular number one, the person who received the highest score, the highest number of points, the government proposed a number five person who received as many as 19 points less than candidate number one. Example number two, it is proposed that the government as a candidate who will be elected, you have a majority, a person who is seventh in the ranking list of DVT candidates, instead of the person in the first place, the difference is – the first person has 70 points, and the person you propose, which is 66 points. The third case, a sixth-place person is proposed, instead of the person who received the most votes, points in the DVT election. The difference is eight points, i.e. the first candidate has 70, the second has 62.2. That's how I'm talking about 24 cases where the government's been arbitration in the D.A.'s election. I don't think this is a good way to go, that this will certainly be an obstacle to our European integration. I suggest to the National Assembly that, of course, we adopt everything that the DVT has suggested, and that we return to the government to establish such a ranking list as the DVT suggested or even that the government return it to the State Council of Prosecutors to propose one candidate to us, because if we have one candidate, we confirm it. We do not have the possibility of political influence on the judicial branch of government, or we as a National Assembly, as a legislative authority, or government as an executive authority. Having, again, to repeat experience from the past, opinions and the Venice Commission and the European Commission's opinion, I don't think this will go unnoticed, especially as I hope and deeply believe that next year we will open these two most important chapters 23 and 24. You know very well that these are the chapters that are being opened among the first, among the last to be closed, and they work by having a large number of experts, either by the Council of Europe, or by the European Commission, sitting in Belgrade and dealing with the point of reform, namely independence and lack of influence on the judicial branch of government. Once again, that's why we can't support all these proposals, we'll only support those proposals where candidate number one DVT is undeniably proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43842	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43843	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think anyone here, especially from fellow MPs who's a trained lawyer, knows how to explain to us what a judicial branch of government is. There is a judicial branch of the government that covers the judiciary, which is independent and there is a public prosecutor's organisation that is not part of the judicial authority. There's a lot of thinking in legal theory about what a public prosecutor's office is. According to the same theory by which a public prosecutor's office would place a "legal branch of power", it could classify the non-existent judicial branch of the government and, for example, public defence, so it could bring down the same principle of the judicial branch of power and the lawyership as an independent and independent profession. There's something that's an abstract notion of justice, but a judicial branch of power doesn't exist. On the other hand, our constitutionalist, and as the respected predecessor just said well, says the public prosecutor's office is on its own. But he doesn't say it's independent anywhere. The lack of independence of the public prosecutor's organisation is just being looked at in that today you are not sitting before you by the president of the DVT, or by any of the authorised DVT members, but by the authorised representative of the motionor in the image of the resolute minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia. There are aspirations for certain people to make the public prosecutor's office independent. It is generally one general tendency in Serbia that every little one appears to someone who wants to be independent, independent of everyone in Serbia, whether or not from everyone on the outside, I don't know, but what's crucial here, and I will look back on it. So, the Honorable predecessor said that here the proposals in 24 cases differ from the State's Chief Prosecutor's proposal, which is not true. Also, an esteemed predecessor, as a high-quality lawyer, using his speaking skills, has avoided saying that the fact that someone is number one gives him no advantage. It is also not said that the only thing prescribed by the law as a criterion for selecting public prosecutors is the expertise, competence and dignity; that the Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors, as an occasional working body tasked with conducting talks with all candidates for the public prosecutor's office, was given the graded expertise, competence and dignity, and that, as one type of thing, the State Council had in mind, was using something that does not exist in the law, but exists in the State's Council of Prosecutors' Regulation, but is not a legal criterion, nor a criterion for determining some criteria, which is the presentation of the organisation's programme and the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. You can tell me if you think it exists in the law, but it doesn't exist. In explaining its proposals, the State's chief prosecutor made it very clear, therefore, that all candidates, when it comes to their expertise and skills, I think in a percentage that exceeds 95%, estimated by a maximum number of points of 50, and these 20 points that were evaluated by the presented programme, are something that was in mind. It's not an exact fact, something presented as a fact, and here, in 24 cases, the government's proposal differs from the State's Chief Prosecutor's proposal. There's no State's Attorney's proposal. The only proposal is a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, as it is the only one under the Constitution and under the law authorised by the proposal. According to the directives of the Council of Europe, it is envisaged that there is a kind of professional body between the authorities that choose and the authorities that propose, and that is what our constitutional author has presented as State Major Prosecutors in this case, i.e. a commission that has done a part of the work for the State's Major Prosecutors. The opinion has been expressed that the government should return these lists, as it is said that the Venice Commission considers that the State's senior prosecutors should only forward it to the National Assembly for verification. As I said, our legal practice and theory say that the prosecution organization is a judicial administrative body. As the public defender protects the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, so the public prosecutor's office protects the public order, constitutionality and legality of the Republic of Serbia from its courts. Fellow lawyers, and rich and judges often have the habit of saying – what is the prosecution, the party in the process. I am proud that the proposals put forward were not put forward in the way that this was done the previous time in the National Assembly and not only the previous one, but also the previous one, but also the former one, when the political criterion was an absolutely priority criterion for the selection of public prosecutors in Serbia. I'm proud that it came out here with proposals that shouldn't represent a traveling prosecutor's office in Serbia, where we almost didn't have... We had only a few towns and municipalities in Serbia in which people from these cities and municipalities were elected as public prosecutors. Here's an example, let's say, for the senior prosecutor in Valjevo, a man from Požega, for the senior prosecutor in Šapec, a man from Valjevo, for the senior prosecutor in Uzic, I mean, a colleague who came from Kosovo and Metohija, for the senior prosecutor in Negotina, a man from Smederev, and from Negotina brought a man to Vranje and not to talk about more, a senior prosecutor in Sombor, a man from Sombor, etc., etc. So this time you don't have that kind of suggestion. In a convincing majority of cases, deputy public prosecutor or public prosecutors who live in a place where they should and work have been proposed. The idea is that the fight against corruption will be more impartial and effective, by bringing the prosecutor from another city, has not proved to be both impartial and effective. So, responsibly, firstly, there is no independent judicial branch of government. There is a legislative, executive and judicial authority. On the other hand, to whom it is not clear, he can also interpret our Constitution systemically, so he will see, let's say, that the High Council of the Judiciary is a special section, but that the provisions on the State Council of Prosecutors are within the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office. So it's not the state's bigger than the public prosecutor's organization. Serbia has some, we can say, middle model. They are not rare countries in the world, and they are arranged, stable democracies, in which the state prosecutor's office is performed by the minister of justice. There are no rare states where prosecutors are directly appointed by the government. So, name them, set them up. We had one attempt, just over ten years ago, which was then assessed as unconstitutional, by which the government elected both prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. I think this model is good. It's the government that makes the proposals. It is the National Assembly that either accepts or rejects them, and besides the National Assembly has that power, it has transferred sovereignty by Serbian citizens that the proposals the government has made here accepts or rejects, and even if it refuses them, that is not the end of the world, the procedure will be repeated and the National Assembly will decide normally in accordance with its constitutional and legal competences and powers. I don't know what criterion that was used in 2009, although it's already been said that we should learn from past mistakes. As I recall, even that choice without criteria, the choice of public prosecutors, and I'm not talking about the general choice of deputy public prosecutors, was not brought under question, nor was he judged constitutionality and legality. I think this is a process that was implemented much better and better quality than it was in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43844	Thank you. (Free Homen, from town: Replica. Mr. Homen, you have no right to a replica. You didn't mention a name. (Free Homen, from the place: He said several times "honored colleague". ) Yes, but you are not mentioned by name and last name, you are not mentioned in a negative context and I cannot give you the right to a replica. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43845	Thank you, Chairman. It is no doubt that the choice of public prosecutors is an extremely important issue for a country that has so many problems in the functioning of the judiciary. We today need to make a decision that represents the most serious choice for public prosecutors since the start of the judicial reform in 2010. 85 are selected, including prosecutors for organised crime and war crimes. Those elected today will have a six-year term, so they will lead in this country to fight crime, fight corruption, to contribute to the protection of the human, civil rights of every member of this society. So much depends on our decision today. I was a little confused by the presentation of Mr. Minister, when he spoke of the difference between independence and independence of the public prosecutor's office. We had this debate about independence and independence when we talked about the National Bank, when the SNS came to power in 2012. It was one of the first laws, and I'm afraid you'll remember that independence then had to actually be interpreted more as independence, not as some independence that's a particular category. In this regard, counterpart Homen spoke about the direction in which the election procedure of public prosecutors should take place, given the recommendations of both the European Commission and the Venice Commission if they aim to bring our rule of law to some European standard. It is true that what we need to do today is in accordance with current regulations, the present Constitution, etc., and there is no dispute. I don't think my colleague Homer said it was anything different either, but the question is, is it in the light of what we have to do? A good method and we could have given it now, if we were to actually do one, I would say step forward in that procedure in that sense that the State's Major Prosecutors sent us one candidate for each function so that we would know what the profession itself thinks best and think most of all about these candidates. Why? Then we would be deprived of the situation if we were to make one less or more political decision today, because today we are going to make a political decision on who will be the prosecutor of these candidates who are proposed. In accordance with the law, the State's major prosecutors complied with the criteria and the regulation adopted. The Prosecutors' Association has raised many criticisms about the process itself by introducing one question as to whether the subjective criterion actually had a dominant influence in determining new candidates. We don't know that, not transparent enough. On the other hand, the question arises, since the State's major prosecutors were obliged to adhere to the criteria, we do not know in what way, on the basis of which criteria did the government determine the candidates as it identified them, or what it proposed as proposals, on the basis of which criteria did it do so? If we don't have a transparent explanation for why some candidates are proposed, we have a reasonable doubt that some decisions can be made very arbitrarily, therefore, as purely political who will be a public prosecutor in a city or some place. Now, the minister here told us, of course as professor of Law, he often enters into one understandable, I would say even the need to explain to us the legal system and the legal rules, and I have nothing against and I can agree with him much, but I have one question – whether the minister participated in the work, in the negotiations on chapter 23, which he says on this independence, or on the independence of public prosecutorial functions – a recommendation from the report on screening point 1.1.1., with the support of external experts Serbia should carry out a thorough analysis of existing solutions, possible amendments to the Constitution, given the recommendations of the Venice Commission and European standards, ensuring independence and the responsibility of the judiciary in which there is no distinction between the judiciary and the public prosecution, the changes should include the following: election system, the proposed elections, the residence and the rule of law of law, and the rule of law of law. So it says what should be the result of the investigation, what an impact indicator, where it says – judges and prosecutors are chosen on the basis of expertise and impact, which in general has a positive impact on the quality and efficiency of the judiciary etc. I'm not going to read any further, but I want to talk to you next. Did we commit to go that way? If we're committed, do we know if we know the deadlines when we want to do this? There may be some judicial reform and a judicial reform strategy that is different, but this is the final version of the action plan for Chapter 23. I don't understand it now, will we continue to hold this independent public prosecutor's office as represented by Mr. Minister's idea or shall we implement an action plan for chapter 23? What exactly does the government want to do in judicial reform? I think for all of us and for the citizens of Serbia, it is a key issue. Is what we said during the screening and during the action plan to our EU partners, that we intend to do, is it real or not real? So, in this sense, it would be important for us to, perhaps, as colleague Homen said, in this election of prosecutors, take one step forward in that the choice of public prosecutors is deprived of political influence to the greatest extent possible, given that the current constitution and the current law is the way it is. What is also a question for us – why are there no candidates for nearly 30 public prosecutor positions? What's this all about? So, what we need to do today, given that there was not enough transparent approach and procedure in what the government has proposed, since the board of directors did not speak out on candidates either, but only forwarded the proposal, if I understand correctly, then we are today making a few excellent political decisions on what candidates for public prosecutors will choose. So, what is true, it is that European standards require that the National Assembly be excluded as soon as possible from the process of selecting non-judgmental judges, not to mention that, of course, the executive authority in the process should be excluded. It is something that is in the interest of our approach and the EU. In Serbia, we all know, there has always been a principle of cadiya suing you, a cadiya judging you, a principle that we cannot win and cannot introduce the rule of law and the rule of law. We know that in the European Commission's annual progress report for the third time in a row is one of the serious criticisms of leaking information from investigations coming into the tabloids, which in a number of cases threaten individual citizens' rights, the assumption of innocence is at stake. For us, the most important question is whether these proposed solutions, whether these proposed candidates and the political decision that you, as most of you will make today, will be cut off from that triangle that exists between the police and the prosecution on the one hand and the tabloids on the other hand and, of course, the executive authorities. Because if that doesn't happen, if both our police and our prosecution, honors are still in constant connection with the SNS press service, I'm afraid we won't take a step forward and we won't have guaranteed independence, or the independence of a public prosecutor's office, and therefore our fight for the rule of law against corruption, for the protection of human and civil rights won't produce a good result.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43846	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43847	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I truly consider myself one of the ministers who, for his better part of the job, has arrived at the National Assembly, debates on bill proposals, proposals like this time, some human resources solutions. For one reason, probably because there's a lot I can hear and learn here. Well, as I just heard there's a judicial branch of power, so I've heard amazing things, which is that the National Assembly, please be careful, is making political decisions. What other decisions does the National Assembly make than political decisions? Well, it wouldn't be the National Assembly if it didn't make political decisions. Of course, these decisions are in the form of legal acts, but they are by their nature a political decision, because in the National Assembly there are people chosen by the people, or citizens in political multiparty elections. So here is one key question -- is the National Assembly ever, when it comes to the judicial system, a public prosecutor's organisation, should it exist in Serbia at all? That's one question, really. The first thing my esteemed predecessor knows very well is that there is no such thing as Chapter 23 called "aki" and called "accurate" European standard. So in the EU, you have countries that have almost 20 different ways of choosing court or public prosecutorial functions. From the fact that in certain states, the head of state, whether it is a crowned head, directly or indirectly elected president, sets up the holders of these functions, up to certain situations, as it was done in one Spain, after the end of Frank's dictatorship, where the maltene is completely the bearer of sovereignty excluded from the choice of judicial holders. Certainly, in its action plan for negotiating Chapter 23, the Republic of Serbia has made its point that it is necessary to make constitutional changes, which would reform the way of selecting the holders of certain functions in the judiciary and in the prosecution. It is my fault that my distinguished predecessor did not quote until the end of the action plan, because then she could say that constitutional reforms are foreseen for the end of 2017. When it comes to concrete candidates, whether someone likes it or not, I first implant one thing and in the most positive way possible I'm going to quote my distinguished predecessor, and she said - it's true that this is in accordance with today's regulations, the end of the quote. It's something that's most important to us. Did we injure valid regulations? We didn't. Could we have taken a step forward? Why wasn't he the one who was in power before us? The one who was before us in power he made a few leaps back, not steps forward. Does the National Assembly need to make political decisions? Well, she doesn't even make any different decisions. So, for the end of 2017, it was planned to change the Constitution in that spirit and in the way the respected predecessor spoke about, quoting the measures of the action plan. Until that moment, we need to prepare well and understand the change of the Constitution as a job that requires the widest possible social and political consensus. Am I in favour of a public prosecutor's office, since I've been asked that question? I did. The independence of the public prosecutor's office is seen as being independent in the work of public prosecutors. And you know, recently, a journalist asked me about removing political influence on the work of the judicial authorities. I told him that there was no concern about this at the time of this government that changes of the Constitution would be made in this sense to revise the role of the National Assembly in terms of the election of judges, deputy public prosecutors. But there remains one big question – will this lead to the end of political influence on the work of courts and prosecutors? I don't think so, because, six years ago, according to pure policy, someone chose the holders of judicial functions and one who was once elected by a political criteria, it will mostly be exposed to the possibility of political influence. You know, it kind of looks like that -- we chose only by applying the political criteria, and now that someone corrects that irregularity, it's not enough either. Now we need to pull out completely. You know, the great Nikola Pasic said – act in power every day as if you were already in opposition tomorrow. Someone ruled Serbia for a decade and didn't think for a moment that he could reach the opposition. Remember these wise words of the greatest Serbian politician of the new century. As far as the proposed candidates are concerned, only one more sentence, a convincing majority, over 90% of these candidates were elected to public prosecutorial functions at the time of some previous government when the SNS did not make up the majority and when I personally did not serve as justice minister. One not a small number of proposed candidates are people who perform today or are public prosecutors or serve as public prosecutor. One number isn't that, but the deputies were elected at the time. If I'm not mistaken, among all the candidates who are proposed there are only two candidates who are currently lawyers, but have spent many years working in the public prosecutor's office during their professional careers. We don't have one here that's been proposed for a public prosecutor who's never worked in a public prosecutor's office or that he doesn't work in a public prosecutor's office now. Or we also have candidates who are judges, which I think is quite all right. At times, our constitution allowed the transfer from the public prosecutor's office to the court and, of course, by constitutional and legal procedure. The fact that we have been tried in a skillful way by imputing that in Serbia it has always been valid – cadium sues you, cadium judges you, it may have been valid in a short period, especially from 2010 to 2012 or 2013. Thank God, those are Serbia no longer valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43848	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica. You don't have a lady. (Nataša Vučković, from town: He mentioned me. ) At no time did the minister mention you, nor did he mention you in a negative context, nor did he mention your name and name. He answered only questions raised by authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or by the president of the parliamentary groups. You know very well, Rules of Procedure, not to be convinced now. We're moving on to the order... . (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: As authorised. Sign up. If there are other authorised representatives, I've said several times that they should apply. I don't have anyone in the system. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, I am obliged to say a few sentences concerning the election of public prosecutors. First of all, the most important thing here is that public prosecutors, that public prosecutors are proposed and that public prosecutors will be elected under the current regulations under the RS Constitution and under the applicable law that regulates the election to a public prosecutor's office. What I don't understand and what my colleagues in the SNS don't understand is that now it's suddenly a problem when the government and the National Assembly want to respect the procedure prescribed by the Constitution and prescribed by law. So I haven't heard from a representative of the former regime who has been violated in the process of proposing, i.e. in the process of electing public prosecutors, regardless of whether they are candidates for organised crime, war crimes, for primary public prosecutors or for several public prosecutors. For the first time, I hear that as a criticism directed at the government's expense and at the expense of the congregation's majority, it's a flaw and that it's a mistake when you're doing things by the Constitution and when you're doing things by the law. I don't really understand that kind of criticism. So here are the Constitution and the law implemented to the end. The former regime's representatives are always suffering from the problem of an ex-wise mind. They remembered that there was a Venice Commission in 2015 in December 2015, and now that you listen to people from the former regime talk about the election of public prosecutors, you realize that by them the basic argument is what the Venice Commission thinks or doesn't think about how public prosecutors should be elected in Serbia. I, preparing for this debate, informed a little about the history of the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission is, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, and the respected citizens who follow this transfer are actually a coloquial name for the European Commission for Democracy through law. Be careful, the European Commission for Democracy through law. The Venice Commission has been formed as an advisory body by a decision of the EU Council of Ministers' Committee since 10 May 1990. So, the Venice Commission also existed in 2006 when the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, and it was adopted by the three strongest political parties in the National Assembly then agreed on its content and no one can deny it and by confirming the constitution in a referendum at the end of October 2006. That's the first thing. The second thing, the Venice Commission also existed in 2008 and 2009 when a set of laws in the area of justice was adopted in Serbia during the former regime, then a single DS and the Venice Commission also existed at the time when elections were held for judges and public prosecutors in 2009. I have not heard in 2006 or in 2008 or 2009 that there is any problem when it comes to the Venice Commission and their opinions on the content of our Constitution and on the content of our law governing the area of justice including, of course, courts and public prosecutors. Now that Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, the SNS vice president is suddenly a key criterion for the Venice Commission's opinion. It is not politically correct and it is not politically consistent. After all, it does not and does not constitute any legal argument, it is one single political argument that will in principle not bring any results. When I listened to the representatives of the former regime, I wondered if it meant that we should wait with the election and the prosecutor for organised crime and war crimes prosecutors and senior public prosecutors and primary public prosecutors until we changed the Constitution and changed the law in the area of justice. Does that mean we have to wait for the next two or three years for this job to be done, and then we have to pick out public prosecutors? Wait, what will happen to the legal system in the Republic of Serbia, how will a public prosecutor's organisation function, how will the courts function, what will happen to human rights and freedoms if we wait to change the Constitution and until we change the laws relating to the choice of public prosecutors? It would cause a virtual collapse of our legal system, especially the justice system. In that sense, I don't see anything disputed here from the point of view of the rules in force. So this is where the government respected the Constitution and the government respected the Public Prosecutor's Law. The constitution was passed in 2006, the Public Prosecutor's Law was passed in 2008 at the time of the former regime. It is not clear to me that everything was great back then, everything was in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, where representatives of the former regime boasted that it was the most democratic, the most European, the best possible solution in the area of the judiciary, the public prosecutor's organisation, the protection of human rights and freedoms. Now that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the image of the minister of justice represents candidates for responsible officials in a public prosecutor's organisation, now suddenly the problem and the Constitution, are suddenly the problem and our laws, now suddenly the problem and the opening of chapters 23 and 24 in negotiations with the EU. So in 2015, it was a problem, and in 2008 and 2009, it was not a problem. I don't understand that kind of political logic, Mr. Minister, but these are political arguments. The former regime and that may be the most important, there is no legal argument related to the selection of candidates proposed by the public prosecutor's organisation, again I say whether it is the prosecutor's office for organised crime, war crimes, the main public prosecutor's office, the senior public prosecutor's office. There's no legal argument there, there's only political arguments. I've heard here an amazing thing, that there is a fact that it is here that the election function of the National Assembly should be lifted and that the National Assembly should have nothing to do with the choice between the other and the public prosecutors. Come on, let's see what it says in our Constitution. It is said in our Constitution in Article 4(3) – that the relationship of three branches of government is based on balance and mutual control. The three authorities, as Minister Selakovic said well, are legislative, executive and judicial authorities. So in the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, the principle of power-sharing applies, but this principle is not an absolute principle, it is complemented by one other principle, that the three branches of government control one another and that there is balance. After all, if we are going to go into political theory and if we are going to go into political history, then the British political system which is the cradle of parliamentary democracy, the political system from which many European and non-European peoples have learned to rest on the so-called system. brakes and balances. So neither government nor legislative, nor executive, nor court is absolutely independent of each other, there is some balance. In that sense, I do not understand the remark that any link between the National Assembly chosen by citizens in the direct and secret elections, which is important to highlight public prosecutors. We can set things up in a different way. Under the applicable laws, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, under the Law of Prosecution, on whose behalf does the court judge? In the name of the people. Is someone going to tell me that because the court makes a verdict on behalf of the people, not on behalf of the High Council of the judiciary, not on behalf of the State Council of Prosecutors but on behalf of the people, the people are a political category, the people are a political concept, not a legal concept, the legal concept are citizens. When you say "people," it's a political category. If courts can make criminal and litigious judgments on behalf of the people, then I really don't understand the logic of former regime colleagues who say, so what does the National Assembly have to ask about the election of public prosecutors. It should be asked because the MPs elected citizens, or political dictionaries, chose us by the people. Why should the people not wonder who will be the chief prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia? So that kind of political argument I don't understand. What I would like to say on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group is that in the day of voting, of course, we will define ourselves, each MP will be defined in accordance with his free belief there will be no political pressure on anyone. I would only like on behalf of the parliamentary group that all those elected in the voting day do their work in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia, to speak the Bible language, not to look at who is who, but to take care exclusively of respect for the applicable legal order in the Republic of Serbia. I would especially like to highlight the role of future prosecutor to fight organized crime. I think it's one of the most important prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, you have a big job ahead of you. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vucic, is the first government in modern Serbian history to start with a ruthless fight against crime and corruption, against organised crime and, in no case has it been selective and we have shown even in the case of some former SNS MPs, not to see if any member of this or that political party is close to this or that politician. Therefore, the fight against crime and corruption must be fully in line with the law, must be spared and must be fought to the end. And in this sense, the Prosecution for Organized Crime and the Prosecutor for Organized Crime will have a huge job ahead of them for the next six years, a big job to finally match in Serbia all those who have robbed the country, all those who have brought the citizens into a state of economic poverty, social misery and all those who have been organised in any way to systematically destroy the economic power of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately the process has lasted too long. And there's no wizard in this world, there's no politician, there's no Prime Minister, there's no minister who can get one country out of a crisis overnight, but we're on the right track, and I think there's gonna be a special role as a new prosecutor to fight organised crime. As for the functioning of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, we of the SNS sincerely hope that this work will continue, but that all those responsible for crimes against the Serb people, committed from 1991 to 1999, will be treated, both in Croatia and in BiH and in KIM, because this is important not only because of respect for human rights and freedoms, but not only because of the pites against the innocent people of the Serbian people, but also because a distorted picture that unfortunately exists in one part of the international community, and I hope that Mr. Minister will agree with me and that most Serbian citizens will agree with me. A distorted picture of the former Yugoslavia and the civil war that struck the former Yugoslavia being overly guilty and Serbs, it is simply not true. And in that sense, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office will have the obligation to take care of the victims of people who fell from the Serb hand, but also to take care of enough of those who died in Croatia, BiH, KIM and were members of the Serb people. The SNS parliamentary group, and I end it, therefore considers that the procedure prescribed by the Constitution and the law has been implemented until the end. The state-largest prosecutors, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resolution Committee in the Serbian Assembly did their part of the work and at the National Assembly in the voting day to elect the most responsible public prosecutorial functions, and whoever is elected, we from the SNS parliamentary group wish him all the luck, we wish him a lot of success in his work, we want him to do his job legally, objectively and impartially.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43850	I thank Mr. Martinovic. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43851	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, establishing a rule of law, strengthening institutions is a priority and the Republic of Serbia on its way to the EU, and that is what we all have to repeat often and what we all need to remember and stick to. Without strong institutions, without a strong rule of law, there is no development of democracy, there is no rule of law and there is no, as our people would say, happiness for an ordinary man. In that sense, the choice of bearers, the most important functions, or institutions that I am talking about, is something that is of first-class importance to us in Serbia. What we have on the agenda today, bearers, or candidates' proposals for these high functions in the Public Prosecutor's Office, from organised crime through war crimes prosecutors to senior and primary prosecutors, and how important the topic is and important to all of us and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to give one parallel to states, developed states of modern democracy. Citizens in those countries don't even know when to choose prosecutors, you know. This is some process that takes place far from the public's eyes, because in these countries the government and parliament play a role in selecting prosecutors and so much so that it may even be said not to be real but represents some kind of clearer confirmation, compared to verifications, legislation, functions or nominations only of prosecutors and public prosecutorial functions. In other words, in these countries the choice is not made by members of the government or parliaments, but in a fundamental sense, the choice is done in a process conducted in specialised bodies, consisting of public prosecutors and respected lawyers. I would like to say, for example, in Switzerland, in which in certain cantons, judges and prosecutors are elected in parliament, it would be considered politically rude to hold a debate in parliament on the competence, expertise and dignity of judges or prosecutors. Now we come to our reality. Just because we're not Switzerland, that's a bigger problem. What is important to us, we have laws, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, clearly prescribed procedures in accordance with the highest legal acts this country has. That is what my respected previous speakers said, though they are representatives of opposition political parties. So, this procedure is respected from beginning to end and that is what is important for all of us here in this high house, which is a political body, the National Assembly of the RS, is a political body. In the process that occurred from the moment that the electoral actions and the candidacy started, until the proposal the government made to us, the Committee was considering, and today we're doing a lot of things here. There was a flaw. I don't think that these mistakes and procedural matters are disputed either by the minister who is proposing on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, we have a lot of chances and opportunities and space to change the Constitution that has been announced for 2017, a lot of what has been seen as a lack of authority, as a deficiency and repair, through the amendment of the Law on DVT and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I think it should and should consider extending powers, greater in the process of setting up a list of candidates, so that this procedure is essentially a choice, and that the Government and the National Assembly are only making a nomination of candidates, who have previously received and supported, above all, think of the professions of those who are more invited than someone who is not a graduate lawyer, as is the case with me. So I also have a few questions. We in the SDPS want to make it clear that we are asking the question, so which criteria were managed by the State Major Prosecutors, and today I am asking the Government's representative, when they proposed these public prosecutors, because from what can be seen through the documentation in certain cases, candidates who were at the top of the State Council's list were proposed, while in other cases the candidates who were at the bottom of the list were proposed, and who received fewer points than the candidates who were not proposed? I think it would be good to hear from Mr. Selakovic, in some ways, to answer and explain why it happened in several cases. I will give only two examples, in Valjev for senior public prosecutor, not the proposed candidates who received the maximum number of points and who were long-standing public prosecutors and deputy prosecutors in the prosecutor's office, but the candidate who is a deputy in the municipal public prosecutor's office and who received fewer points and is at the bottom of the famous ranking list. In Novi Pazar, candidates who received the most points, longtime prosecutors, were not proposed, but were proposed by a candidate from the Court of Justice, who is a judge in litigation. I would remind myself, and I think it's important, that I say now, not only as an authorised representative of the SDS, but also as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority First and Equality of Gender of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, to point out the provisions of Article 82. The Public Prosecutor's Law in the selection of proposed candidates is prohibited discrimination on any basis. In accordance with this provision, and when selecting and proposing candidates for the selection of public prosecutors, the national composition of the population and the appropriate representation of members of the national minorities shall be taken into account. Of these fifty proposals that we have for the primary and more prosecution, over five proposals for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, up to four proposals for the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, we have only one candidate who is not Serbian nationality, therefore, who is not a representative of the majority Serb people. I believe and have received assurances from both the Minister and the Committee themselves, and also in the talks we had in the previous days, that in these remaining 25, plus five, as it is said, is thought of more, when the procedure takes place, that in some way the situation relating to what I have quoted, Article 82. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, therefore, will ensure that through this national representation, the national composition of the population is appropriate. Then when we round up that story about the bearers of the prosecutorial functions, since we are talking about them, then we have a similar picture of the one that corresponds to the demographic structure, that is, the population of the municipalities and the cities in which the public prosecutor functions are elected. All that we had about the prosecution's election and what we heard from the previous speakers is an impression, I'll be free to say and point out that, that the legal framework we have, I think, is all by law, but that this legal framework is not appropriate to access the amendments to the State Council of Prosecutors Act and strengthen the role of that body. In addition, the procedure that preceded the government's proposal also showed that the normative framework, namely this State's Council of Prosecutors, is not appropriate. In particular, the Council rule by which candidate rankings were carried out is not a good basis, i.e. in that general act the subjective ones, I would say, above objective criteria, given first of all that it is a decisive so-called. the presentation of the programme and the promotion of the organisation of a particular public prosecutor's office for which a particular candidate is running. The programs, you know very well and much better than I have, were, in a way, in most cases and the candidates' fair wishes programmes as they see this prosecution in some future if they came to the lead, or to the prosecutor's office. I think the council of the council was assessing it, too. It seems to me, in some sense, to me. It should be said in the end, and we are concerned that even for public prosecutors, people who have run certain prosecutors for many years, and in this prosecution who led the previous years did not have any God-knowing results. So we need to find some measure through changes and additions to the law in some subsequent period of time to come up with such a solution, to come up with a model that not only fits what we've been talking about, calling for action plan 23 and what that famous, so on. The Venice Commission sometimes has objections or objections, rather than that model, to such legal solutions where all that we now suffer through the prism of politicisation will be avoided and where this problem and where these issues will be put in the place that belongs to them, so the place where those who are both professional and who are trained and who understand it much better. I think we'll avoid this species then, I'd say, both polemics and politicization -- why the Parliament, why the Government? Because it's such a law, because it's a constitution, so when we approach the changes in the laws that the SDPS advocates and when we approach the amendments to the Constitution, I think we're going to come up with one solution that will paint a real situation in our society through the corner of what's called a public prosecutor function, and we're going to get a chance not to talk about these things in this way. I am sorry to say that a little bit has been said about one of the important public prosecutorial functions that are organized crime and war crimes, colleague Martinovic has rightly touched these, also very important and important functions, I think that one, I would say, will not be a palanical one, perhaps someone will be offended, but a patriotic attitude towards the community from which some MPs come, somehow spending these significant institutions such as organised crime and war crimes, and I think that as a society and because of the programme that is ultimately an obligation for all of us in this Assembly, especially which we belong to the ruling coalition, something that we must do in the future and strengthen that institution of crime, of course, was on all sides. We have our institute called the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the state of Serbia through that institution has to do everything to make individuals, so individuals point out, they have names and names, they have committed crimes, allegedly on behalf of this or the name of that institution, I don't want anyone in my name or in any name to commit war crimes. Therefore, the institution must clearly separate the interest of the state, the interest of the people from the interests of individuals and those who hide behind religious national and state interests, and have committed war crimes. So, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, we need to give full support, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office must work in the interest of this people, these citizens, this state, and it must work primarily in the interest of determining facts and bringing justice to those who have shamed both their people and their own state, whatever their name is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43852	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43853	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with great care, I'm monitoring the presentation of a distinguished colleague. I wouldn't agree with him, perhaps in one thing, he says – in modern and well-organised states you don't even know when public prosecutors are elected. You sure know how. If that wasn't such a meaningless function, John Kennedy wouldn't have brought his own brother to that place. Therefore, it is also an important function for one simple reason, as law enforcement is dictated by police and public prosecutors in every modern and well-organised state. Therefore, for every well-organised state, it is of paramount importance and what will be the professional quality of those people chosen and who will perform a public prosecutorial function. I think we've made a lot of progress in one thing and you've seen it very well, you've touched it, and that's that we're not discussing candidates' expertise and training, and that's what the main role of the State's greater prosecutor is to determine whether the candidates are professional, qualified and worthy of performing this important function. You asked the question – what criteria did the proposings manage? I think it's very important that we say it, but I'm going to touch it through something else you said. You could have noticed that among the candidates there were a significant number of people who were still in the remaining few days of this year or in some previous period were at the post of prosecutor in the prosecution for whom they were competing or someone else. That's where I absolutely sign what my colleague Omerovic said. The most common programme of promotions and organisation of public prosecution work is a list of good wishes. So, I completely share my colleague Omerovic's opinion and add one more thing, some candidates had, in the previous period, what is said in the colloquial language, their five minutes to show what they know. Some have shown it to a lesser or larger extent, some may not. I will give you, say, just one piece of information, which I know specifically because I was invited by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court during the previous week, I think it was just Wednesday to attend a meeting of the Working Group for the implementation of a single programme of solving old cases in Serbia's courts. And that's when I found out, for example, the data that's really respectable, which is that from January to the end of October of the month, so it's 31.10. In 2015, more than 50% of the old criminal cases older than 10 years were resolved in the High Court in Belgrade, as the highest court in Serbia. So, at the beginning of the reporting period on 1 January 2015, criminal cases older than 10 years were 82 and 31.10.2015 of these cases were 47 and, I apologize, 47 out of 82 were solved. One of the main reasons for this was the information on good co-operation between the High Court president and the High Prosecutor in Belgrade. Using the advantages of our Code of Criminal Procedure, such as a plea agreement, in a good co-operation, they have managed to solve more than 50% of the cases that someone is trying to solve or no one has solved for more than 10 years. In my opinion, this is one of the excellent examples, and probably one of the things that has qualified as a candidate for the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and believe me, in a process that we call rationalization and where we are looking for the best way to organise the work of prosecutors and courts with as much resources as possible, and with greater effects, believe me that the more public prosecutorial office in Belgrade is the most derelicted public prosecutor in Serbia. No computer was found there since 2001 until recently, there are no networked computers of deputy prosecutors. Thank God, we are preparing a major reconstruction of the Court of Justice and I am convinced that we will be entering it by half the summer, but the palace of justice itself and the conditions in which our employees in courts and in the public prosecutors in that facility are disastrous in that building. Over 40 years there was no serious investment in that building. Why did I set this up as an example? Some of the prosecutors you mentioned specifically had the opportunity to appear as candidates for prosecutors in them, who in the past 15 years were more or less all at the head of the prosecution. And that's where it was defined as a candidate who didn't perform that function. I would like to pay particular attention to something that I think is of great importance, and this is what my colleague Omerovic mentioned, these are multinational environments, that is, among other things, the area of the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. When it comes to the senior public prosecutor's office, you noticed that it was reported here, or that it was proposed as a candidate for a person who is now a judge in the New Market Court. There is no representative of the Bosniak national minority in Serbia that I haven't talked to without any time, if it comes from Pazar or lives in Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica did not draw attention to the disastrous work of the judicial authorities in that part of our country. I hate to say it, but I have to agree with that. I'm not invited to evaluate anyone's work, but by the number of complaints, by the decisions that come in, which we're conducting, which my colleague Omerovic knows well, within the Criminal Penal Code, you know, I'm going to give myself the right to say something, although it's not prohibited by positive regulations to comment on some judicial decision, imagine a situation where a murder in an attempt, where three shots from a firearm from a distance of 10, 15 centimeters, were fired in one person, received a prison sentence of two years. It's against common sense, not only forced regulation. This can't happen unless you have a U.S.J. mechanism, sometimes even a lawyer, which, unfortunately, happens in Serbia, also happens in Novi Pazar. It also happened that the D.A.'s representative didn't show up for a search, and that the judge realized that he had joined, and that even if he had given up the rights of the complaint, the man had not come to the search at all. Especially when I have said of importance for this debate and for what my colleague Omerovic said is that in the election of the remaining unfulfilled public prosecutorial post in Novi Pazar, there must be an explicit account of the national composition of the population in the area of the public prosecutor's office. I, by my word, by my function, and as someone who strives to perform it maximumly securely, responsibly and in accordance with the law, will explicitly advocate it. The other day, in another debate, I cited a few examples that we've quite drawn from the clear line and the difference between some previous conduct of the executive authority and this one today, and if you will, the court. So, when the last competitions for the election of judges for the basic court in Novi Pazar were elected here at the National Assembly of Six Judges, six from the Bosniak national minority, two from the Serb people, two from the two were elected in the Sjenica of two representatives of the Serb people. Now you know, and there's now a discrepancy. For example, we have a court in Sjenica where you have no representative of the Serb people who is a judge. There are judges only Bosniaks. On the other hand, we now have a contest to elect judges in Prepolje. As far as I know, there are two places, and it happened to that unfortunate so-called. reforming that the only Bosniak judge who was in Prepolje, he defined himself to go to Preboy. But that's why in the election of deputies at the primary public prosecutor's office in Prepolje, one deputy was elected to the one place, a member of the Bosniak national minority was elected. I think we've made some moves here. I know that's how, normally, by the regulations that are in force, you mentioned Article 82. The Public Prosecutor's Law, the corresponding provisions concerning the judiciary, that we will comply with these provisions, propose to the public prosecutor someone from the Bosniak people. I think that's how it's supposed to be. There's nothing to avoid here or to make some kind of negative connotation. I took your remark as one of the most generous remarks and it will absolutely be binding for us during this period that is ahead of us, when I expect... One of her colleagues said, "Why aren't the other 30 prosecutors not proposed candidates for prosecutors?" If we think this job is done completely in quality, it's not a problem for him to do it in two parts. Let's make progress by one percent, compared to what was before, I think we're on the right track. Also, I support your initiative to strengthen institutions, special or special so-called. The DA's office. We should choose here, or you should choose the people who will be in the public prosecutor's office for the next six years. It's an extremely significant period, a long period. The government has named political priorities, namely the fight against organised crime and corruption. A whole series of legislative changes have been prepared, which are currently being checked by certain entities who have been invited to give their opinions, as the European Commission and I am confident that with a single staff reinforcement, qualitatively, and this part of our state system, in time ahead, will advance. Thank you for your truly well-intentioned suggestions. I especially want to point out what you said about the New Market DA's organization. This is something that both the State's Major Prosecutors and the Government of Serbia will have in mind in proposing candidates for those places that are not filled, not that we have in mind, which obliges us. That is what our Constitution obliges us to do. To this we are bound by the attainment of the level of protection of human and minority rights. To this we are bound by our applicable legislation in the field of public prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43854	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS, MP of the people, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43855	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, it is no doubt that we have to agree on one fact today, because in this direction, public opinion is also directed, and this is that today we are discussing one of the most important issues relating to the judiciary, too much for public prosecutorial functions. It is not disputed that, when we are already talking about this subject which is very important, I point out that in this procedure the candidates for the public prosecutor's office are very important, which is that this time this election is fully transparent, that this time the State's major prosecutors, in one long time period, have insisted that they determine everything they mean, not only respect for the mandatory criteria, but to find out everything else that can run in front of the State's larger prosecutors, as potential public prosecutors and where it is estimated to our great happiness that all those proposals that have gone to the government represent proposals that have fully met the criteria. That's something to support. Today, however, very little has been heard of something very important, when it comes to two of the most responsible institutions within the organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Serbia, which is the fact that you know, of course, what the Ministers are about, that just as the UN tribunal, the first case, of all the cases being prosecuted before The Hague, has submitted to our war crimes prosecutor's office, and these are war crimes committed in the territory of the municipality of Zvornik. Why am I talking about this? Because of this particular prosecution, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has gone professionally, courageously and responsibly to enlighten all crimes, war crimes, no matter where they are committed, whether on the territory of BiH, Kosovo, Krajina, in the end, and Serbia. I must remind myself that the recent composition of prosecutors in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office managed to fight and that today we have the consequence that more than ten people, who committed serious crimes in the territory of the municipality of Zvornik in Republika Srpska, were not only prosecuted, but also legally convicted. We have one, without the intention of favouring other candidates, from the candidate that the government of the Republic of Serbia has cited in a proposal that we, not only will discuss, but also vote, which is the current deputy war crimes prosecutor Milan Petrovic. What should also be commended is that this prosecution has also prosecuted war crimes involving two unprecedented crimes against former JNA members, and this is Voluntary Street and, unfortunately, a tragic attempt to evacuate soldiers from Tuzla. Tragic to the extent to which he will remain in history recorded as one of the most tragic crimes. This very significance of all of this that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has seemed to suggest that those most respectable, most professional in all respects, those who can carry this job professionally and in any other way. This, in terms of importance, also applies to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. We have recently processed cases in which, after many years, decades, procedures are opened, indictments are being filed, quality public prosecutor's investigation, such as the case of Saric, such as the case of Curuvija, is being conducted now Stambolic. Because of what I've just pointed out, it is indisputable that in the further development of the prosecution, we must take care of what we have as an obligation today, which is to be that catalyst, to be the censor of candidates for public prosecutor functions and to assess which candidates are the best of those who are proposed. It is no doubt that the SPS parliamentary group will support this proposal concerning candidates who are individually proposed for public prosecutorial office holders at the level of the main prosecutors and senior prosecutors. As far as these two very responsible places are concerned, when it comes to public prosecutorial functions, which are places in the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes and the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime, I think all candidates no doubt deserve to be in that position. What no matter what the minister has come out, we need to know here is the fact that prosecutors are given procedural assumptions that they do their job in the most qualitative and efficient way. We have made the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, including the Criminal Law, effective efforts to carry out public prosecution investigations, to achieve faster solving of cases by introducing new institutes, and these procedural and legal institutes are a solution to delaying criminal prosecution, i.e. opportunity and a plea agreement. But what I have to draw attention to is something that happens in practice, and I'm afraid it can't become a rule, which is an excessive conclusion of a plea agreement, and perhaps even in situations where a conclusion agreement, or the conclusion of a plea agreement, raises doubts whether a criminal procedure in its consequence will achieve its purpose at all, because a plea agreement implies criminal responsibility, the expression of adequate criminal sanctions under the agreement. If that sanction is mitigated, is that how the purpose of punishment is achieved, both from the general point of view and from the point of view of special prevention, and also from the point of view of the so-called "prevention". a repressive act that binds itself to criminal sanctions and its consequences. So, what is expected of the public prosecutors we're going to choose today? Effective work is expected, they are expected not to lead political persecution, their absolute independence is expected, only cannot be independent of the law, it is expected that there is no limitation of criminal cases where their failure to do so contributes to antiquity and therefore to suspending the criminal procedure, because we have a reluctant and not a liberating verdict, which is not good, and which destroys the reputation of the judicial system. Public prosecutors are expected to continue to prosecute all and those who have committed crimes with a high degree of social danger, as well as those where this degree of social danger is significantly lower. They are expected to apply the procedural legal institutes of opportunity and the plea agreement are adequate. But at the same time, the righteous. That no one should be privileged, that no door should be opened, mildly said, in the sense that the perpetrators of crimes that have undoubtedly committed crimes will be subjected to these procedural legal institutes unfounded and ultimately, what is most important, they, in their moral character, are expected to present public prosecutorial functions as respectable. We are constantly talking about two categories of evaluation of the work of public prosecutors. One category is expertise and training, the other category is dignity. About this second category, other than what can be achieved, which is a copy of the criminal record, an insight into the fact that the candidate has been prosecuted, processed, disciplined or not, I don't have any insight into any other parameters, which is why we are here today, which is why the citizens who elected us here have the right to indicate whether any of the candidates, in the direction of dignity, have any kind of weakness, anything that discredits him to be a public prosecutor. Fortunately, I see today that absolutely no one in that direction has had any objections or reason to have any objection to any of the candidates on the list of candidates we are discussing. For all of this, I will repeat that in the day or time for voting, we will support the Government's proposal to elect public prosecutors, because in any case, he has unearthed something of quality and what must be noted, that political hypocrisis, calling for alleged criticisms of the Venice Commission against the judiciary, when we know that this same Venice Commission has brought out not small but very serious criticisms in 2009 and 2010, in the election of judicial officials. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43856	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Petar Petrovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary reef. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43857	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia and at first say that in the voting day, we will support the proposals sent by the RS government when it comes to the election of public prosecutorial offices in senior prosecutors in Serbia and in the primary prosecutors in Serbia, and when it comes to the election of prosecutors for organised crime and the election of war crimes prosecutors, we will define ourselves and decide before the vote. What I want to say at the beginning, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, is that my discussion will go in two directions. First, we need to determine whether the positive regulations in the Republic of Serbia that regulate this matter are respected when proposing these candidates for public prosecutors. In the first place of the RS Constitution, the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office is second. I can responsibly say that both in one case and in another, they are respected by the legal acts in force that regulate this area. It is clear in the constitution who is the authority to elect prosecutors in Serbia, it repeats the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, and I do not think there are any discussions and dilemmas. As long as these acts don't change, these regulations, we have to respect them, otherwise we would violate those regulations, and then we would come under the influence of the assessment of the constitutionality of our decisions and the election of the competent constitutional court. So, all those who say that these choices have certain shortcomings, I think they're wrong. Very often lately, and I've heard today and at this debate by some distinguished colleagues, mention some rank lists, etc. Given that I participated in the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, it is true that the commission that conducted the talks made by one of its ranks, but at the same time responsiblely argue that by the DVT or the State Council of Prosecutors, the score list with points did not go to the government, the list of candidates who meet the conditions to be proposed for some of the public prosecutorial functions in the Republic of Serbia, and this should be known and it should be clear to all. A word was often heard here, and behind it was wanted to hide something that had been done before, which is the independence of the prosecution, the independence of the judiciary. Let's look at it on the other side. What is the prosecution dependent on other authorities, so if you will, what is the state's major prosecutor's office depending on the representatives who participate in the work of the State Council of Prosecutors and are not prosecutors? Minister, Chairman of the Committee in charge of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Professor of the Faculty of Law, etc. that I do not list the majority of the body, as well as the majority in the VSS, have prosecutors, or judges, and they are simply independent if they want to make a decision. They can always make a decision no matter how voted the Minister or Representative of the National Assembly, the representative of the professions from law schools etc. What he is saying and what he writes, not a dispute, the Venice Commission, I would just like them to write the same thing when it comes to some members, the founding members of the EU in which prosecutors are elected by either the President of the Republic, or the Minister, or in some other way, not directly elected by the profession, or prosecutors in those countries. It's the same case when it comes to the judge. Don't let us be some guinea pigs in Serbia now and not everything you do in your countries, let's try Serbia first, so if it's no good, it's not important, it's Serbia's wrong, if it's good we'll accept it. Enough of Serbia was a rehearsal polygon, now according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia it is like this. Until the Constitution changes, we will respect the Constitution and what comes from the Constitution. When it comes to candidates who have been proposed to the public prosecutor's office and the State Major Prosecutors, and particularly the Government as an authorised promoter, appreciated the work of candidates who have run for office and thus expressed their desire to be elected as public prosecutors in the primary prosecutors and senior prosecutors, as well as in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crimes. Appreciateing their work so far, their expertise, their commitment to the protection of constitutional order, the legality of property and everything that public prosecutors need to do, we have come and we have received some proposals that the National Assembly in voting day will declare. What I especially look forward to, I must say, is that from previous discussions none of the participants have disputed or at least I haven't heard that any candidate who has been proposed for a public prosecutor's office has been challenged. If anyone has knowledge that any of the candidates for these or those reasons do not meet certain conditions to be elected, they should be made public. Here are candidates who, according to the JS MP's assessment, fully meet all criteria, not only of the formal ones, but also of the moral and professional ones, to be elected by this National Assembly to the places proposed by the government. For this reason, in order not to repeat what has already been said, the parliamentary group, or the JS parliamentary club, will vote in favour of proposals directed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the day of voting, or directed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43858	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43859	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. I want to make one thing clear, because fellow Petrovic expressed himself in an extremely good way about it, but it is good for the citizens to know, especially those who are following this session of the National Assembly. The key factor in establishing full rule of law is an independent judiciary. And in its policy of proposing regulations to the National Assembly, this government will do everything possible to strengthen judicial independence. When it comes to a public prosecutor's organization, why is she independent and not independent? Because a public prosecutor's office in everything it does cannot endanger a man's rights and freedoms without a court's ruling. And the D.A.'s office, when she's proposing detention, it doesn't decide on detention. That's what the court decides. And for that reason, the public prosecutor's office in the way that it is an independent court must not be independent, because it can become very easily alienated. The essence of the role of the National Assembly here and the Government as a promoter is the establishment of the control mechanism that counterpart Martinovic was talking about. So everything the D.A. does, sooner or later, comes to court. Like I said, you know who's bringing in and who's conducting a criminal prosecution policy. I am convinced that even when we come to the National Assembly with a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in the work of criminal acts against business, particularly corrupt crimes, a new law on jurisdiction of the organisation of state bodies in the fight against organised crime and corruption, the law on the origin of property we are working on, that we will then be able to present to the MPs a proposal for a declaration that will confirm the political determination that Serbia will deal with organised crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43860	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. He's not in the O.R. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43861	The choice of prosecutors is a political decision and there's no doubt about it. I think it is good to make it clear that political decisions are made in parliament, that the prosecution is part of, I would say freely, very close or perhaps even an integral part of the executive government, that the prosecution plays an important role in establishing the rule of law, fighting crime. I would not mind setting up prosecutors or Prime Minister or Government president in our Constitution, but it should also represent taking responsibility for the situation in the area, for the individual work of each prosecutor, for deputies at all levels and for the general picture and for the general results resulting from their work. What is often going through here as an excuse for the current government is that it was one bad reform of the judiciary in 2009 and that's doubtless and there's no story about it, so constantly calling for a bad past won't help make our future better. What's wrong with this choice we have today is inconsistency. We have a few dozen prosecutors in the basic prosecutions and higher concrete individual proposals for each place and I think it's very good and it's good for the government to propose one candidate at a time to take responsibility. Of course, the congregation majority will vote the way they get a political message, advice, pressure, or whatever you want to measure it or call from the government, and there's no doubt about it, and that's totally okay. Of course, no one should go through who's in conflict with the law, who's unworthy, that's all clear. And now about 10 candidates, elected by the government as prosecutors in this or that place, it's completely irrelevant, the minister, the government, the government currently assumes responsibility for their work and to me it's totally fine. What's inconsistencies is that for the two most important prosecutions, we don't have the government's decision, we don't have any major prosecutors who are candidates, who are candidates, but we have four candidates for the Prosecutor for Organized Crime and five candidates for the War Crimes Prosecutor. It's technically not clear to me how we're going to vote, but it's less important. The important thing is that this is where the government has run away from responsibility. She was supposed to return to the State Council of Prosecutors, if she received five candidates and four candidates from the council, to return to look for one, possibly two, so that we can define ourselves, first of all, the Government, but also we here because it's a constitutional solution and there's no doubt that we're doing it by law, but it's not some special quality, everything we do should be by law, it's nothing special. I think that's where the government has escaped responsibility, no matter what happens on the list of candidates for the War Crimes Prosecutor, I can identify at least three good candidates, three excellent candidates, which, on the list of candidates for the Prosecutor for the fight against organised crime, also has good candidates, but the question is who is behind whom the executive power stands and how it assumes responsibility for their work. Of course, we have some other cases, or doubts. I'm just going to read it without bringing a qualification to judge or comment. But, from candidate Aleksandar Petrovic, who was a candidate for prosecutor of the Grand Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, on the 30th page, I won with his signature, it is no secret delivery, his remarks on the work of the commission, the Kragujevac, where it says that in the commission, he is a relative of candidates, a brother of the candidate uncle who was elected, that he is some employer of the candidate, that he is some debtor of the candidate. I think it would be good for the public and for the very importance of this function that someone is doing in Kragujevac to get to the end of the debate and for the Minister's statement on what he thinks about these objections, and if they are not there, I can deliver them to you now, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43862	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43863	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully followed my predecessor, and I think I know what this is about when he talks about one of the candidates for the post of senior public prosecutor in Kragujevac and I have the text of the complaint before me that he has filed. I have carefully read every objection that the State Council has otherwise refused for procedural reasons, denied all objections, there is no one adopted. What I have to notice is really, that's, the first way the signator of that complaint is addressed, he's beneath every level of dignity of a man who's been prosecutor in Kragujevac for the past six years. Who lives together, who does what, who is seeing and who is in a sixth, eighth or ninth degree of kinship, you know, it's kind of written in that way, I can let anyone look at it... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I just want your statement. ) I said my statement, using the only argument “ad person”, means disqualifying someone personally because I don’t like them professionally. I'm not going to make a personal statement about the way the gentleman mentioned him was doing his job. I know that there are major problems in the work of the Grand Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, that these problems last for years, and I can say that I am convinced that, in this prosecution, by adopting a proposal for a new senior public prosecutor in Kragujevac, we will qualitatively improve the functioning of a public prosecutor's organisation. I have all the objections that have been filed by me, and if you're interested in anything, I can really put that into the hands of both you and the public. Some things I really don't know how to plead. What you're looking for is my statement, because I don't want to waste your time reading what's written here, but you know it looks like someone's looking for a cause for some of their problems in everyone else just not themselves. I think the candidate who has been proposed for this more public prosecutor's office is an extremely high-quality candidate, even for this candidate, I must tell you that they've had a variety of political stories that have tied him to previous parties in power. To tell you the truth, I wasn't interested in it, he was considered a professional in his work, and that is unequivocally said by people who are similar political views to me and completely different political views from that. So we need professionals here to work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure we'll make progress here in relation to a condition that still exists or that used to be. And with one thing I agree with you completely, I agree with the need to take responsibility when it comes to that parallel, the skillful speaker you've done, saying that the government has escaped responsibility here. On the board, we talked about it, and you remember that's when I replicated it to you, saying, "No, I think this is where the government wants to share responsibility." You know, as one can choose from the proposed candidates the National Assembly may not choose, but what you are right here, there are a number of good or excellent candidates for certain organs and I would really have nothing more to add or subtract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43864	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43865	Thank you. In the Kragujevac case, I only said that I had won, it is my obligation as an MP, I received a memo, I am neither professional nor intend to deal with it, so I asked you for a statement about what Aleksandar Petrovic sent to me and we heard that statement, it remains registered. You did not give a good answer to the question – why did the government not select one candidate for war crimes prosecutor and one candidate for an organised crime prosecutor. The division of responsibility is a kind of running away from responsibility, so we totally agree. But you've completely escaped here, you're just like, someone would say as a flow boiler, as a transmission, what the prosecution sent to you sent to us. We decide on the basis of the biography of candidates, which is especially for these two most important prosecutions a little fact that a layman like parliament can, and every parliament in the world is a layman's body, to make an adequate decision. Without the government's suggestion, we don't have to vote for the government's proposal, but we need to see what the government is proposing, who it proposes and why. We don't even have a work grade here, we don't have any other fact besides who was born where, when he was born, when he got into college, finished, passed a judicial degree, and what he's been doing in the last five, six, ten years, depends on how old he is. We choose people to deal with organized crime or war crimes. So I agree that there are good candidates on both lists, but what's missing is taking responsibility from the government, which is to propose one candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43866	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43867	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow farmer is a favorite of the prosecution, which I will continue to discuss and explain. At first, in the introduction, since I passed by Emperor Dushan, I am obliged to read to you what he said about justice in that distant 14th century. Order of the Emperor – If the king writes a letter either out of anger or out of love or out of mercy for someone, and this letter violates the Law and is not according to justice and law, according to the law of the judge that they do not believe, only that they judge and do justice. A second attitude – all judges to judge according to the law according to the Law, without judging by the fear of the king. Emperor Dušan, 14th century, our congratulatory ancestors. Are we worthy of our ancestors today? Do we have what Emperor Dushan had in the 14th century? I don't think we do yet. In the introduction, I'll say why we don't. The country we found in 2012 was completely territorially broken, politically decapitated, nationalally humiliated, military semi-powerful, economically devastated, socially impossible, unsustainable, morally, which is the worst, morally devastated which in this Code did not stand. A country without a chance to be abandoned, an abandoned state, a country rich in natural wealth, a country with the most fertile land in which poor workers lived, often hungry people, without any right to justice, we gradually return it to them. But to stick to a strict subject, I have a lot of grudges on the prosecution, especially considering the cases we've received. When I said that my colleague, the farmer's favorite of justice, I didn't mean those old cases that I've brought out quite strikingly and to which prosecutors, I believe that after the change he'll react. There is a firm in Nis called "Impressa" whose director was my colleague, in which, according to the report and the records from the company itself, here with the bar codes, after his departure, it was found that 138 thousand 714 bottles of bottled wine had disappeared, without any documentation, shipping, etc., worth 89 million dinars, which is why, after his departure from the director's post, the authorities have filed appropriate reports that are most likely not being handled so far. It is not about that domestic wine produced on Frusko Gora, but it is about import wine, is that on Frusko Gora, not a single bottle is produced. My colleague Babic talked about it, they can't confuse me, Mr. Chairman, I've already said that a wise and wise man can't be confused...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43868	You're right, Mr. Risticevic, but all you have to do is connect it to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43869	... What? I'm in the dark. I'm talking about the D.A. and I'm saying that this prosecutor didn't sanction this case, no matter what he's got a criminal record worth 89 million dinars, which is equivalent to 138 thousand 714 bottles of wine, is that what's on Frusca Gora, it's not wine, because there's not even a few drops of honor there, let alone a few bottles or several hundred thousand. So these are the reasons why some prosecutors lose their trust, and some new ones get it right. I was also obliged to save your time to present the case of one of the candidates, called Mladen Nenadic, with whom I co-operated, of supplying materials from 2001-2004, as I recall. It is a sugar affair, a former regime's financial director who bought three sugars for three euros each, that only in Kovacica, there were 181 hectares of the country, which means 20 euros per hectare plus sugar comes with 13,000 sugar and something worth eightm euros. So let me show you what the dimension of this crime is, that someone paid for something that paid three euros to the Association of Small Shareholders, estimated it at 20m euros. That it was worth more than three euros, proves the first year of work where the new owner owed eightm euros to the banks, on a three-euro property. What were those prosecutors doing? I don't know, but I know who did this. His name was Mladen Nenadić now says he's a lawyer. Is he still in the D.A.'s office? From what I've seen in his biography, he's no longer a prosecutor. He opened it quite seriously in Chačka, I'm talking about a sugar affair. When he reached the financial director of the DS, the former regime's party, Milorad Kostic, a miracle, was taken from him. You know who took his case? The prosecutor, he was a deputy, and his superior was Zoran Pesic, Mr. Justice Minister, write it down somewhere. The man who prosecuted the crime was Mladen Nenadic, and the man who protected the crime, I guess, wanting to protect the rich and the overrich, was named Zoran Pesic, who was the district prosecutor's office, came from the secretary of the DS board. That was very representative. It is the prosecutor who took the case under the authority of Mr Mladen Nenadic, I guess we have the right to talk about candidates, whose case was taken away and most likely that she was working a drawer, mostly from the case Mladen Nenadic, seems to have gone to lawyers, I'm not sure, his case has been taken away, and this rich one, which was the case of the investigation, has become even richer. Let me just say that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic made a decision at one session to buy 15,000 tonnes of sugar, right out of that former financial director of the former regime for 13m euros, is it possible that my God could sometimes cause some major shortages, just to find himself, and so that money and sugar remained with the former financial director of the party of the former regime. He kept each other. So you give me $13 million for 15 grand or 15 million in sugar. Do you know what it's worth today? You're still paying for their warehouse. You give him money and sugar and you pay for his warehouse. Do you know what it's worth now? It is now worth a maximum of seven and a half to eight million euros. So the state bought him a clean profit of five million euros. It is easy for state money to buy businesses in Serbia. That's how a party of the former regime used to do it. So the municipal secretary of the municipal board of the former regime withdraws the subject of its financial director, the entire party. That could have happened then, but he probably won't be able to do it now. As for the war crimes prosecutor, I miss you, God, when we got rid of Vladimir Vukcevic, he was supposed to retire, and he said he had something capital, so on his nose we extended his internship, and I was against it, because he said he would reveal "the yellow house". I think he discovered a colorful yellow house earlier, from that "yellow house" he was appointed. It's funny to you, but it's not for laughs, because it's very soon after the Justice Minister's term of office, who was a member of the former regime's party, which allowed him to be temporarily employed in this particular prosecutor's office, or I'm wrong, Mr. Minister. You will answer. It's about Snezana Malovic. Was she or wasn't she? Right after the Justice Minister's discharge, was she or wasn't she employed by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office? We also have the ex-Prime Minister's wife. I'm afraid it was the political wing of a party, and it has to stop any party that it is. The war crimes prosecutor's office is not, because it's a little sensitive organ, it can't be party-colored because our parties have different approaches to war crimes. Some would like to send everything to The Hague, the whole of Serbia, and thus win elections, and some would not deliver the dog to The Hague. I'm closer to these people. So this same prosecutor told us that his greatest achievement, beware, no one asked to resign, this is worse than "but I love it when they kneel". He said something like this -- he made Carla Del Ponte smoke next to the bathroom. I remember those statements very well. That's what the war crimes prosecutor said, which, fortunately by age, will no longer be a prosecutor, and what we giants had for prosecutors, that's what the statement shows. Also, I filed charges against that prosecutor and other persons for a meeting of 10. 11. In 2010, with Kendel Deja, a legal adviser to the US Embassy in Belgrade, he was also a legal adviser to the US Embassy, Vladimir Vukcevic, whom I was already talking about, Dragoljub Stankovic, Bruno Vekaric, the former prime minister's wife and Bojan Lapcevic, the war crimes prosecutor's secretary. The meeting discussed cases of White Manastir, Cuska, etc. This record they made, I handed over to the D.A.'s office. What I heard was that application ended in a drawer. I have not yet been informed that it has been rejected, that I could personally prosecute Mr. Vukcevic, since for me this is a classic example of spying on my own state in favour of representatives of another state. So, the U.S. representative, the U.S. embassy, in which case, for me, are the United States. Anyone who has, among other things, dealt with Natasha Kandic, on her contribution in certain cases, anyone who has done this had to be subject to a serious investigation, because this country has regained its sovereignty, or part of its sovereignty, no one has the right to step on it anymore, examines this way in which Kendel Day did. When I get, or don't get, or what's going to happen, from the D.A. who's dealing with this, the answer, whether they're going to go after the private line or not, whether they're going to go after it on the official line, so I can run it privately, in which case I'm going to take this second step, and I'm going to go after not only myself, but some other fellow MPs. As for other prosecutors, I am pleased with the senior prosecutor of Sremska Mitrovica, the basic court in Pazova and this one by Srem, I expect, fellow MPs are certainly best aware of cases in their midst and with full right I allow any MP to support, or disprove proposals for prosecutors as they assess in their territory. Finally, the number of votes will decide who will be elected, and I would suggest to my colleagues the experience with Mr. Nenadić that they seriously consider giving him confidence in the vote, because it is a man who, watch out for himself, in those early 2000s, has the nerve to engage in a serious crime and corruption charge, and should be appreciated, since he is most likely to pay some price for professional work. We must remember all professional victims of prosecutors and try to bring them back in an honorable manner to do their job and prosecute crime. In my opinion, and I want to end it, we must prosecute this crime for the reasons of freedom and justice. Justice can't be simulated. If we don't pursue crime, we'll have simulated justice and a simulated state, we'll have the illusion of justice and the illusion of the state, it's not our endeavor. Prosecutors are supposed to be persecuting. The message for the judges is to punish the guilty, to protect the innocent, especially these millions, not to protect the millionaires, as was the case in Chačka, but millions, these poor, fired, underpaid, that's my message to them. The courts have to do it, not because someone has done it badly, but to prevent someone from doing wrong in the future. We have a lot to change. I believe that these are not ideal solutions, that there may be some mistakes, the system is not perfect, but I am not giving up my intention to change that system. I call on my colleagues to vote for solutions. I believe that the other side will rather vote in favour of problems than solutions, and with that to end, again with Emperor Dushan from whom I have come, like all of you, and to say, unfortunately among our colleagues there are those amongst our colleagues who today would not vote for this with their hands, but for their feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43870	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishic, and let the People's MP Milovan Dracun be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43871	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, I think the previous discussion and applause she's received is sending the best message to those prosecutors who are going to be elected today or tomorrow or whenever they're going to be elected, or those who are just going to be chosen what and how they should be doing and what business they should be doing. It is the involvement of politics in the choice of prosecutors, not just a formal discussion of whether the decisions taken by the Assembly are political or not. Of course, Mr. Minister, all the decisions made by the Assembly are political because we are here, because we are in politics, as well as in other members of the government. So we didn't dispute legitimacy at any point because the law was respected, but we talked about political influences that the proposals that came before us today were in this form in which they came. What do I want to talk about? Several times here you have been asked the question in which way, which criteria was being conducted by the Government when it submitted a proposal to the Assembly for 51 basic and more prosecutions, how did it decide to select from the proposed list of candidates delivered by the Highly Major Prosecutors, the one he proposed to us today? What are these criteria? We could hear it this way, if it wasn't the criteria, the organisation's proposal, that's what you said, so this difference in score, it was because certain candidates, according to that criterion, got more points than others, and that when they were seen as skills, dignity, and so on, that 95% of the candidates have the same number of points, you said. I'm wondering, if you weren't guided by this criteria, the organization program that you were running? What did that define that you are giving to some candidate, let's say for the election of the High Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade of five proposed, not to give to one who had the most points, points, whatever it is called, but to someone else? The second thing, you said here, by commenting on this criterion, that those who were already, had had opportunities in the past six years to do something, and now let's give a chance to a new one, and then it would be okay if you were consistent with it from the first to the last case. But that's not the case. Eight prosecutors who have so far been asked to re-elected prosecutor in Smederev's Higher Prosecutor's Office, Jagodina and the Basic and Higher, in Požega basic and in Šapac, as well as in the case of the Prosecutor's Office in Kikinda, where the proposal to come to the Prosecutor's Office from Zrenjanin, to the Senta so far the prosecutor from Kikinda and to the higher in Kragujevac to come to the prosecution's office from Cačka, as well as in Subotica, where the prosecution should come to a candidate who has so far served as prosecutors in Somboro. So it's not that criteria either. What interests me most, and I ask you to try to answer, why in the event of an election for the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crimes and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, did you not decide to propose to us a candidate, but to suggest a list of candidates? You're right by law, it's all by law, I don't dispute legality. The law says – The government can propose one candidate, can list candidates. That answer to share responsibility does not satisfy me. It doesn't satisfy me that I can't hear today from a representative of the ruling coalition for whom they're going to vote. It would be a turn, this is a united debate on all proposals, to hear who are the candidates for the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and the War Crimes Prosecutor will propose a ruling weight, or support the ruling majority. It's not your job, Minister. It's the work of political deputies in the National Assembly now. You said that 25 plus five, so the D.A.'s office, if I remember correctly, and 31, two of the data was, so I'm not sure, today there's no proposal. I'm interested, and you said as soon as possible that the Highly Major Prosecutors should deliver the proposal. What's the deadline now? We are adopting this proposal today by an urgent procedure, with an explanation that the importance of carrying out, the importance of electing a public prosecutor's office to function the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia is important. That's why this choice has to be made by emergency procedure. I agree it's important, but then what's in these 30 prosecutions? Why isn't it so important there, that we won't do it on a regular basis, but that in some period that you haven't told us what the deadline is? What is the time limit for proposals for these other prosecutions to come to the National Assembly? Of course, I am sure that after this discussion and the support received by certain candidates many candidates will be destimulated to apply. You said, too, that the election now and in 2009, of course, is under the same constitution as the same legal procedure, and you said that now the largest number of candidates proposed for the election are candidates who were elected prosecutors or deputy prosecutors in 2009. It brings me joy to hear from a representative of the ruling parties to say something commendable that was then done to the judiciary. There's always some criticism. You have now said that the choice was good, because the candidates who come before us today were then chosen. That's good. I expect before the vote that we will hear who are the ruling majority candidates for the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, because the only thing we have been able to hear is that he will be the new special prosecutor, as the SNS authorised representative said. He said -- we'll have a new special prosecutor for organised crime. That's the only thing we've heard about the definition of the largest parliamentary party and the parliamentary groups whose choice will certainly be decisive in the election, which is at stake. So, new one, that probably means it's not the old one. That's some elemental logic. I ask you, Minister, I don't think I've been over-expanded, I've had a few very specific questions to try briefly and concisely to answer, if you're able to, these questions which, let me repeat, are the criteria that were applied when the government decided who would be elected from the list that DVT sent to the government, since you said what were not the criteria, I'm curious about what the criteria were for the government to define and why you didn't use that criterion when you sent us a list of candidates for the prosecution for organised crime and war crimes? She called.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43872	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43873	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to point out the satisfaction of what the distinguished previous speaker said, quote - we did not dispute the legitimacy, because the law is respected until the end. The end of the quote. I think it's very important. The second question is – what criteria are respected? I have been very careful, what can an esteemed colleague see, following the presentation and trying to give answers to the questions asked, which criterion is respected if it is already said, that the evaluation of the public prosecutor's work programme was not a decisive criterion? Well, of course, the criteria are prescribed by law, and the law says – criteria are: expertise, skills, dignity. As an example of a respected predecessor, he said – what has defined us not to suggest for the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade a person with the highest number of points? I believe there's been a misdemeanor, but this is completely untrue. It's about a candidate who had the highest number of points. It's something that's beyond doubt. Also, when places are listed where they are proposed to perform their duties are the same ones that bear the public prosecutor's office now, probably with a fallout, but very importantly, not all of Belgrade is listed. The person who served as the first prime prosecutor was proposed for the post, the second prime prosecutor was proposed for the post, the third prime prosecutor was proposed for the post, the main public prosecutor in Obrenovac was proposed for the post, the primary public prosecutor in Lazarevic, who was proposed for the post. I don't think these are irrelevant things. What did it define here for Belgrade? It is my fault that the distinguished predecessor was not present in the hall when I spoke of something that only 10 months of work in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade qualified the person we proposed for the post to come to, or to be proposed to, the National Assembly. Why is a list of candidates forwarded to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and not one proposal? Sounds a little weird. The National Assembly is given the right to define for itself who will be in that position. It is not clear to me why someone in the National Assembly would object for having the opportunity to decide. I think it is good, extremely good, given that the person who comes to that place will perform the function in the next six years, means full 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and the whole 2021. It's an extremely important, extremely important place. It's about the prosecutions of special jurisdiction. When we talk about the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, jurisdiction covers the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, there is a promotional principle of universal jurisdiction, which is being challenged by certain states and their authorities by the Republic of Serbia. For that there are arguments for, there are arguments against. I think that principle of jurisdiction is good. Whether it pleases or does not satisfy the answer to the division of responsibility, it is a matter of personal impression. A lot of things please us or don't satisfy us, but I think this thing, when it comes to choosing these important functions, is very principled. The proposal for candidates to elect a public prosecutorial office for the prosecution for which it has not been forwarded to the National Assembly this time depends on DVT, because the DVT is the one that should send such defined proposals to the government. One thing in which I have the right, if it is not clear to someone, and I fully interpret my words, I think I was quite clear when I said that most of the proposed candidates were elected to the public prosecutor's office whether in 2009 or 2010, in any case prior to the arrival of the SNS to power. It's basically something else that we're talking about here. Far from me expressing joy in the way of the 2009 election. No one legally written would express their joy, nor would he agree that it was done well. There's something else going on here, and I'm sorry you didn't mention that second part of my address, where I said it was possible to remove it now at this time for future political influences on the choice of judges or deputy public prosecutors? From now on, yes. And what about all those chosen by political criteria? Do you think that during the night they will be deprived of all those political influences that existed when these people were elected to certain functions? I'm not that much of an altruist, and I know it's impossible. Am I proposing another solution? I'm not suggesting it. Someone tried to produce such a solution, so it proved to be a political cleanup or exclusively a political choice of judicial holders. To completely deprive each type of political influence, the Serbian judiciary and the Serbian prosecutor's office are needed for decades. We're taking one step today, one step ahead after a lot of leaps back, let's do it. You know, let's just say, I don't know, that any of the proposed candidates are related to anyone in this group of people who performs legislative or executive power in Serbia. In 2009, many were elected only to this criterion, and that was fine at the time. I don't want to go into individual cases, but that was a lot. Here no one can draw out a list or paper of the opinion of the municipal or city board of any of the ruling parties and the individual characteristics of the candidates in order to view the candidate's relationship with the ruling party, so that's how it's proposed. No one can get it out of you because it's not there, because that kind of opinion is not required. So here the primary criteria were expertise and training, of course, dignity. I didn't even hear anyone's dignity was challenged here. So far from me saying that the choice, I quote, was a cannon, the end of the quote. I didn't say that, I didn't think so. I think we're going to need a decade to correct all the shortcomings and difficulties that have arisen with that choice. You know, Broz, when he came to power, he kept over 80% of the judges he named before the king, estimating their professionalism in the first place. Unfortunately, the beginning of the 21st century in Serbia was handled in a much more backward way and that evil blood, which was then brought into our judiciary and our prosecution, will unfortunately pollute human relations and create serious problems in the procession. I'd like to add one more thing. So when it comes to criteria, expertise and training are absolutely in the first place. Moreover, there are candidates who are not appreciated by automation, by checking the results of the work at the deputy prosecutor or the public prosecutor who passed the exam, and that is a major shift. There's one more thing I really want to make a little more clear. You mentioned the evaluation of the Public Prosecutor's Office Program. It's one of the things that, when the law changes in the future, I think it should be entered into the law, since it's not in the law. It exists in the rule book. As you well know, certain professional associations have challenged this text of the regulations. The rule got a positive opinion from Brussels, but in certain parts, although it was about the text that went to Brussels, he returned from Brussels, he has no basis in the law. One, not one thing, but the main thing that has no basis in the law is the Programme of Organization and the improvement of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. As a result, this is not a binding legal criterion, but rather a criterion, not a criterion, but rather a criterion that was in mind when candidates were proposed or not. I, as I am convinced, and each of the MPs in this National Assembly most interested in how these candidates who are proposed, if elected, will do their job. I think that's the most important thing for all of us and that's our best interest. If they do not act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, if they do not do it honestly and with dignity, there is a legal procedure for them to be resolved. The minister of justice, as well as the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, can initiate such actions. These procedures are prescribed by law, can be implemented and it is again the National Assembly that will give its final judgment whether it is for someone else's decision or not. I think we've shown one thing in this previous period, since we've been running executive power, and that's that the laws are what they are, they've been passed by some other congregation majority... It doesn't really matter which, if we have a proper relationship and speak to each other correctly, you do this, and we do it. We have begun to apply laws in their full scope. We've begun to apply the Constitution. As bad as anyone's saying the Constitution is, there's a lack of solutions, it's imprecise, so let's just once start applying it. I will remind you, the President of the Supreme Casation Court has been elected in an unconstitutional manner in this assembly, and this has been established by the Constitutional Court. So we started these legal acts, the most legal acts, the key to this area, to apply and I think that's good. If I missed any of the questions you asked me, don't take it as evil, I'm willing to answer that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43874	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43875	Mr. Minister, some people are very hard to please, some people are impossible to please. That's the only way I could comment on the words of an esteemed colleague from the party of the former regime, because if he said yes, you did everything by law, but why did you do it by law, how else to comment on the words - you did everything by law and you gave us a list of candidates for both the war crimes prosecutor and the organized crime prosecutor, but why didn't you just give us a candidate and you did everything by law? It is likely that the same criticism and the same reasoning of the criticism would be that the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed only a candidate. Probably to say then – why didn't you give us a list of candidates? For God's sake, the Assembly can choose between many people, why you're the smartest, so the Assembly is the smartest. This is where the citizens chose us. Some people are only here for criticism. I don't know why someone got in the way of applause. The applause was not given to Mr. Marian Risticevic. plauz gained the courage of Mr. Mladen Nenadic, at that time the deputy prosecutor in Cačka, who launched the procedure, had the courage at that time to initiate proceedings against the party's director, the regime's party, the Democratic Party then and instead of the prize, instead of applause, he was replaced. He was removed from the one who was a highly positioned member of the DS, and after that, the non-political reform of the judiciary in a magical way became a prosecutor. If something like that never happens, we mention that case, and that case will always get a round of applause from the SNS. I don't know why anyone's interested in someone before the vote they're going to vote on. I guess that's every single person's freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43876	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43877	I guess it's the freedom of every MP, but what the SNS wants is not to praise the individual, but to strengthen the prosecution's institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43878	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The People's Messenger Milovan Dracun has the word You have no right. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: I do not have the right to reply?]] I expected there might be something in Mr. Babic's speech, but he skillfully avoided the opportunity to call you and give you a chance for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43879	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the chairman, Minister, I will focus my attention on selecting a war crimes prosecutor, and I will not plead on any proposed candidate, but rather on what I expect the new war crimes prosecutor to do to improve the work of the prosecution. What I expect him to do will come from an analysis, therefore, of what the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has done so far. Whenever I enter the House of the National Assembly, I look at photographs of murdered Serbian civilians, members of our security forces, kidnapped, missing, and I feel the pain of families who have lost their loved ones. But when I look at the part of the sign on which the question is -- why there is no justice for Serbian victims, I must admit that I am terribly ashamed. Mr. Minister, I ask why there is no justice for Serbian victims? Perhaps because, for example, the Belgrade War Crimes Prosecutor's Office managed to judicially end only two crimes cases committed against Serbs in KIM, it is the first Gjilan group, but 17 members of the group were released. Another case, one man convicted of crimes against Serbs in KIM, so one single, judicial case for crimes against Serbs. Perhaps the answer is why there is no justice for Serbian victims is in the memo, and we get correspondence, not just some opposition MP, a memo from lawyer Ivan Maksimovic from Prokupje, who addressed me as chairman of the KIM Committee. I speak to you only as a lawyer and a defendant of the damaged, as well as damaged in the war crimes prosecution case in Belgrade, Kt.rn. No. 662/07, and as the grandson of the late Živojin Milic of Obilić, whom are members of the so-called Kosovo's Liberation Army, beastly killed in the village of Trnavce, a Serb municipality, in a place called Vojteš near the regional road of Kosovo Mitrovica-Pec, with a blunt force of mechanical weapons, firing multiple shots from firearms. The memo further states – this case before the Belgrade War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has been leading since 2007, when the association of the Kidnaps with KIM was filed in the same case until 19 December 2012. So, after five years, when I sent the same prosecutor's office criminal charges with a bunch of evidence that only after one year of my emergency, the D.A. carried out one single operation, questioning only one of the injured, and that, although repeatedly contacted orally, telephoned, they were provided with additional written evidence that I had come to, that would certainly identify the perpetrators and their employers, and that war crime was enlightened. But obviously there is no will by those who act. Perhaps there is no justice for Serbian victims and because also, in another letter, it states, among other things, that the prosecutor, otherwise, is one of the candidates now for the war crimes prosecutor. So how is it possible that prosecutor5. In May 2012, the described crimes in one case constitute a war crime against the civilian population, and on June 1st of that year, only a few days later, so that they are not a war crime but an association on terrorism and that they fall under the Amnesty Act. Or perhaps because during 2011, the War Crimes Investigation Service found out that tens of thousands of unprocessed statements from Croatia and Bosnia came to Serbia during and after the war events, which were collected by representatives of the Committee for the Collection of Crimes against Humanity of International Law, as well as representatives of the Serb war victims' associations and delivered to the Prosecutor's Office for Further Work and Conduct. With untimely processing and holding such valuable material, and I can suspect that someone deliberately removed that material in the D.A.'s warehouse by the end of 2011, it was very difficult to investigate, process war crimes committed against Serbs in Croatia and Bosnia. Or, perhaps there is no justice for Serbian victims because in the past war crimes regime, the prosecution has become an example of political employment that we can see from the case and mentioning two people who, for example, work in the prosecution. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, what would happen if you were an example? Secretary of Justice hired as Deputy Prosecutor for War Crimes as is the case with the current deputy, Mr Bruno Vekaric? For example, former Minister Snezana Malovic is also the subject of political fermentation or the wife of the former prime minister of the current opposition MP with a salary probably around 200,000. In order to prove to you why I'm talking to Mr. Minister about politicization, de-pollution in the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes, and why is it important to cut it? I am about to explain to you that Mr Vekaric and Mrs Malovic may be an example of this political party employment. Bruno Vekaric, deputy Public Prosecutor for War Crimes, is anti-constitutional, I assume you know this from the documentation I have provided you with in time, although he has never passed through the National Assembly of Serbia. Look who was actually doing party and political employment. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a law amending the Public Prosecutor's Law in 2003. Among others, the exceptions were reflected in the government's appointment by the minister of justice to deputy public prosecutors. These amendments to the law are a reduction in years of experience needed to elect a deputy municipal and district attorney. The important thing is that the Constitutional Court of Serbia has declared the amendments to the law unconstitutional and announced its decision in "The Official Messenger". Afterwards, the government appointed a number of deputy public prosecutors. In particular, in 2003, by the Serbian government's decision to appoint a deputy and public prosecutor, number 127 of December 23rd, Bruno Vekaric was appointed deputy district attorney. The appointment was carried out contrary to the provisions of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. against the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, Article 62, point 1 is replaced by the following: The public prosecutor's law is clear. Vekaric could not be appointed by the government, but rather elected by the National Assembly, so his appointment as deputy district attorney is illegal and an example of political employment. In the list appointed in such a way, Snezana Malovic, among other things, was named Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office. By the time she was appointed, she served as head of the then-Batic minister in his cabinet, and Vekaric was secretary. Snezana Malovic did not take office in the Fourth District Public Prosecutor's Office as she stands in the appointment solution, but allegedly performed the deputy's post in the second municipal public prosecutor's office at the time. Bruno Vekaric has never even done the job of deputy district attorney, as he was given a later solution to perform portfolio duties in the war crimes prosecutor's office. So he immediately enters the war crimes prosecutor's office and remains there after April and May 2004, when the Constitutional Court announces a decision to amend the above-mentioned law unconstitutional. From 2004 until today, Vekaric remains in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, while Snezana Malovic remains until 2007 when he becomes secretary in the Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic's office, after which also minister of justice. Now he's working with the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. I think it's an example of political employment. Another letter that I received among other things says: the basis of the lawlessness in the prosecution's work makes and represents Bruno Vekaric, an illegally elected deputy. On his orders, the D.A.'s office employs more unnecessary persons with salaries as a deputy prosecutor. In the first place is a secretary with over 200,000 dinars, I assume the data is correct. She's on the D.A.'s payroll and a person who doesn't work here at all, not to mention her. For this reason, Mr. Minister, I think that in the next period, the prosecutor elected should do the following, i.e. from the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, I expect this very important law enforcement body to return the prosecution to the executive justice system of the Serbian state, because in the past period this body has been removed from the state government system of the Republic of Serbia and placed under the influence of individual foreign embassies and NGOs. The war crimes prosecution must be in the service of official state policy, the prosecution of the Republic of Serbia and carry out its work under the Constitution and the law, not the warrant of individual foreign embassies and NGOs. The chief task of the war crimes prosecutor to be elected is certainly the depolitisation of the war crimes prosecutor's office. In particular, the new Prosecutor is expected to review the legality and constitutional decision on the appointment of illegally appointed individuals in the Prosecutor's Office, as well as the review of the activities of NGOs established and operated under the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. The new prosecutor is also expected to ensure transparency of funding and spending from various donations from various embassies and NGOs. On what facts do I base my expectations? These facts are in a disciplinary report that I have sent to the Disciplinary Prosecutor of the State Council of Prosecutors in my time, and against Vladimir Vukcevic, Prosecutor of War Crimes and Bruno Vekaric, Deputy Prosecutor of War Crimes. In the period from 2004 to today, Vladimir Vukcevic, as Prosecutor for War Crimes, and Bruno Vekaric, as deputy Prosecutor for War Crimes, did not protect the privacy of the participants of the proceedings, did not provide respect and protection for the human rights of suspects and witnesses, while the public prosecutor's office was being biased for the benefit of the person who was damaged was represented by Natasa Kandic, founder and formerly executive director of the NGO - a humanitarian law fund which is not a lawyer, but a sociologist, and all at the expense of the suspects and apparently violated the obligation of proper treatment against the parties and witnesses. Inappropriate relations with the parties and their legal advocates, violated the principle of impartiality and threatened citizens' confidence in the public prosecutor's office, resulting in a serious disturbance in the performance of the public prosecutor's office and the exercise of work tasks on the public prosecutor's office, and a serious violation of the public's reputation and trust in the public prosecutor's office. The new war crimes prosecutor will have to face these facts and correct them as soon as possible, by holding direct personal communication with the legal representatives of one embassy in Belgrade, as well as with other official persons of the Embassy and at least once a month meeting with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at which detailed and precise reports on the course of any case in which the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is acting, which, in view of the type of criminal proceedings, contained what cannot be announced by law or by the decision of the court or of another competent authority declared secret, whose statement threatens the sovereignty or interests of the RS security, interferes with the course of criminal prosecution and endangers the security of participants and proceedings. In future work, the new War Crimes Prosecutor must absolutely not be tempted to repeat these illegal actions of the current prosecutor, allowing representatives of one embassy in Belgrade and Natasa Kandic to determine the cases of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, to influence the way the prosecution is handled and decided in all criminal cases, and to determine the scope and importance of the role of the Fund for the humanitarian law on war crimes trials in accordance with the scope of the money recognised by him from abroad, which is therefore, according to the representatives of the foreign embassies in Belgrade, Natasa Kandic understood as her right to, quote, "take over the role of prosecutors and judges" in which the maintenance of such meetings and giving such reports to representatives of the war crimes by the Prosecutors for war crimes and his deputies, without respecting the security of the rule of law of the URS, so that the law of the Court of Justice and the Federal Court of Justice of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union has committed to the European Union, in breaching the law of Serbia and the law, the law of the law of the European Unions and the law of the European Union of the European Union of justice of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Unions of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Republic of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of Finally, on 14.6.2013, Vladimir Vukevic as Prosecutor for War Crimes and Bruno Vekarić as Deputy Prosecutor for War Crimes did not illegally and incorrectly protect the honour and reputation of the public prosecutor's profession and did not protect the public interest of the RS, sovereignty and public order, did not protect the privacy of the participants in the proceedings and did not ensure respect and protection of human rights of suspects, thus jeopardising the public's trust in the public prosecutor's office, which led to a serious disturbance in the exercise of the public prosecutor's office and the exercise of work tasks in the public prosecutor's office and a serious violation of the reputation of public confidence in the public prosecutor's office by designing an anti-constitutional and illegal address of the two foreign ambassadors in Belgrade by letter of 14. In 62013, signed by the Prosecutor for War Crimes, Vladimir Vukevic, who, in the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, was listed on the same day as Number A 169/13, did not have a title, but, by his content, represented the complaint of the work and treatment of Milovan Drecun of the National MP and the chairman of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Slovenia, who, in accordance with his legal powers, asked his parliamentary question about the legality of the election of Bruno Vekaric as deputy public prosecutor in the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes and the legality of his officers in connection with the publication of publications, as well as the question of the prosecution of war crimes against Ramush Haradinaj, i.e. whether these evidence was delivered to The Hague tribunal, because if it could not constitute a criminal offence – aid to the perpetrator following the crimes carried out in Article 333. Criminal law or criminal offence – preventing and obstructing the evidence referred to in Article 336 from being available to the public at that stage, stating that Milovan Drecun is among other subjects of the investigation, falsely presenting that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is independent and that asking parliamentary questions about the legality of the election of Bruno Vekaric at the public prosecutor's office and the legality of the prosecution's work constitutes an attack on the war crimes prosecutor's office, contrary to the provisions of Article 4. A constitution that prescribes that it is legal in addition to unique, that the regulation of government rests in the division of power. I am saying this because we would completely banish all illegalities and all that has been done by the D.A.'s war crimes prosecution so that it would counter-lawfully and counter-constitutionally interfere with the MPs in its work and that such mistakes would not be repeated to the new prosecutor. The rule on the administration of public prosecutors has been prescribed that the public prosecutor is obliged to inform the Republic Public Prosecutor through a direct public prosecutor of any influence on the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office by the Executive or Legislative Authority, and that, depending on the type of influence on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, the Public Prosecutor may inform the National Assembly, the State Major Prosecutors, the Trustees, the Agency and others, which neither Vladimir Vukevic nor Bruno Vekaric had already addressed the representative of the foreign state, showing that they did not respect the legal order of the RS, its competent authorities and the obligation to act under the Constitution, the law and regulations adopted under the law, the reference of the letter in question to the foreign ambassador in Belgrade and the contents of the letter constitute an attack on the constitutional order of the RS and the threat of its independence. Because of all that I have stated, I believe the choice of war crimes prosecutors is extremely important, and there must be a brave man, a top professional, who will not compromise with the truth. Only then can we get an answer to the question – why is there no justice for Serbian victims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43880	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43881	Thank you. I guess I missed the candidates in this process Vladimir Vukcevic, Bruno Vekarić, Snezana Malović and Biserka Zivkovic or I missed everyone talking about whatever they want, and I am very imaginative here, so if we're going to talk about personal impressions and past the agenda it's no problem, since we can talk about various criminal reports, various biographies and various things, but with advance apologies if I miss that Vladimir Vukcevic, Snezana Malović and Bruno Vekarić are candidates. The minister will correct me. Who knows, maybe I don't read carefully, so it was necessary to prove to all of us that they were acting illegally, that they were misusing their official position, and that they were acting beyond authority. Then, since I was a little awkwardly surprised when the minister taught us what the role of the Assembly in this process was, since I didn't expect it from Minister Selakovic, from many others I did, but well, then there is no rule of law if the minister so far as he doesn't start acting on what he heard in the National Assembly Hall tomorrow and doesn't initiate proceedings against the persons who are hardly accused here, or we'll play the rule of law or we'll mock her or she will be. Since we're all talking about the rule of law, and talking about the agenda, then it's clear that there's no rule of law in this room because some people can talk about whatever they want, defamation, accusing people of making statements about illegal, violations of rights, abuses, and that the minister who's in charge of preventing what's going on in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office from losing its reaction today or tomorrow, then we're all going to be afraid together that we have a much bigger problem than we think at first glance, and that's a common shame. So, I'll talk about candidates for the election of prosecutors in primary courts, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and organised crime. Today's debate has shown, I'm afraid I'm also expressing my concern and suspicion one rather obvious thing. In the prime minister's answers and what came to us as information, the question of criteria has been asked to propose a single name, which the government can do, should be proposed by the candidate list. Well, then, the criteria showed -- not everyone who is by these criteria with the highest number of points or first ranked and suggested and of course it's interesting to hear and know why? Why do you even do criteria if you're not going to suggest those who, by their expertise, skills and dignity, have the most points, to use a coloquial term, because obviously we have proposed candidates who have fewer points than ranked ones, we've changed that as arguments here in the O.R. Then it became clear. There's a candidate who's got the highest number, the highest grade of expertise, skills and dignity, but he's on the list. Well, there is an obvious desire to vote, not for the candidate who has the highest skills and skills and dignity, i.e. for Miljko Radosavljevic, but to vote for Mr Nenadić. That's legitimate. Why even mocking the rule of law if the congregation majority decides to vote for Mr. Nenadic? What's the problem? Why do you think we can be all objects of deception all the time, of that kind? According to the old man, you can cheat on some people all the time. You can keep all people in line for a while, but you can't keep all people in their rightful state to give them the obligation to take your word for it. The rule of law, and you said it well in the previous principle debate, is that it is precisely not believed in the word, but there are neutral mechanisms that ensure that there are truths in society. So the questions that were asked here were what were the criteria? The criteria are according to law, but there was also a proposal for an organisation programme, a work programme. He's in the Regulation, he's out of the law, so he can't rank. Sometimes it's a list of good wishes, sometimes it's not, where I repeat, the completely legitimate majority of the congregation, decides who they're going to vote for. Moreover, on both lists offered, there are very good candidates and that is good news for Serbia, not for the government, not for the assembly majority, the ruling coalition or opposition, but for Serbia to have good candidates on the list for the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and War Crimes. Then what's the problem? The problem is that artificially a counterpoint is created between a process that lasted in Serbia and the Assembly in 2009, and has resulted in laws that led to the election of prosecutors. Now, why is it a counterpoint? Because we're saying in the debate that it's backwards, that it's ruined it, that it's never ruined it, that it's never scarier, even than the other Tito, which I can hardly imagine but well, and in that, in the re-election six years later, almost all of these people go, except for two names that I don't know or four other names that I'm not sure about. Then what's the problem? If these people are qualified by your assessment that the whole process has been mutilated by the prosecution and the judiciary, and now we're choosing them again, then either they're very good and they've never been chosen because they were obedient, or the system we choose prosecutors and judges and it's not as bad as it looks at first sight. I am the first to criticise him, and that is why we now have the noise at the discussion to talk here about Vladimir Vukčević, Bruno Vekaric, Snezana Malović and Biserki Zivkovic, publicly slandering people, because it is freedom of speech. That's not the agenda point. They're proof that nothing was right. For this prosecution, we have more candidates and their evil deeds here, Minister, are being given to you as proof that you should choose not the first, or not the second, on the list, but the third or the fourth. That, in my opinion, is insufficiently debated between the MPs of the people, but it's just me. It doesn't really matter to you. So, in voting day, the majority will, of course, decide. In the process of proposing, as the minister has already said, there is no violation of the law but there is an attempt to hide who we will actually vote for. This can be a denial by the minister and most of them, with a sentence. We hide nothing; the congregation will decide for itself. If that's the answer, I agree in advance that it's your right to estimate that when we offer the lists, that's how it's gonna be. We're having a bit of a problem with the vote in the Assembly, and it's not your job, but only the recession, we have a whole case of voting for REM candidates. There will be authentic interpretation, a member of the law that treats it. After the minutes have been signed, after the whole process has been completed, after the names that have been selected have been subsequently producing effects. It's not good for anyone and it wouldn't be good for anyone to vote for prosecutors in the primary or the prosecution of organised crime or war crimes if we had a similar case. The good news is that I am absolutely certain that we share our commitment to the rule of law in the area you run, for which you answer. I don't mind the argument that we share responsibility, it's common in some situations. I have no argument to say why I think we share our full commitment to the rule of law, but there has simply not been a procedure that would convince me of that. Work on applying action plans for Chapters 23 and 24 I hope they don't deny me. I'm almost sure it won't because there's no maneuvering space for these application plans to be too small to be able to make any colourful leaps, by interpreting what the rule of law is and what it is. Another piece of evidence, a final one for the position on the 2009 election, and that they were languages that were allowed to serve the mandate. Language is a miracle. The woman has a sensitive ear to... I don't blame it, it's more humor. So, if they had served their mandate completely, I understood what the context was. The context is, no one thought to resolve or interfere with prosecutors selected in 2009 except Vladimir Vukcevic. It occurred to many here that he was disturbed, slandered, disturbed, and so on. So there is one exception, however, when it comes to whether or not someone can serve the term of office until the end, but I understand it is not this slow, slow with you. So, you mentioned an excellent example of co-operation between the prosecution and the courts where for others, if I remembered 82 cases well with ten and more years solved, which agreedly whatever, but with the right co-operation of the prosecution and the court in Belgrade. That's good news. I am very inclined to support such a way of working by courts for the simple reason that it does not harm the rule of law, and in some kind of paradoxical way it may even contribute more to the sense of justice in those who are damaged than long-term processes that do not see an end that only produces an accident in a victim seeking justice for a crime done. So those people you're praising for this year and those people were elected in 2009. All of my wishes, considering how we're going to vote for prosecutors in the voting day, is that even if we can separate legitimately, completely legitimately from the position of the authorities, criticising some other government, whatever that other government is doing, passed the law, didn't pass the law, applied, should, whatever. But to separate it from the people that this law has put into public functions, because they hear it, like demeaning their work. It's not an idea, I'm sure, you want to comment on the failures to reform justice to establish a dialogue of what someone else did compared to what's worse than what's now and what you're doing much better. That's what it takes to prove it. So I repeat the question, if the criteria are expertise, competence and dignity, whether there is also one candidate who is committed to the work of the commission, assessed by these criteria and the programme, which has a higher score and is not proposed for the election. One, is there? And is the vote for Mr. Nenadic and Mr. Radosavljevic, if it is in favour of Mr. Nenadic, will it be the first case? Since we got the candidate list. I know you don't get involved in the vote. Who better rated Mirko Radosavljevic or Nenadovic? They've been evaluated as well. So all the candidates we have on the list are also rated. Okay. So all the candidates we have on the lists, and of which only one of them has been sent to us, are rated the same. (Nikola Selakovic, from the post: The same are assessed, I will answer your question. Is that what you're telling me, Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43882	Mrs. Komic, please, the minister will speak after your presentation and you will receive answers. Don't try to communicate like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43883	Mr. Becicu, the minister spoke to me. As I was speaking, the minister came to me and I'm asking you to follow the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43884	I'm very much following the session, Mrs. Comic, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43885	So if you were to follow, then you'd hear that the minister spoke to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43886	... . In some times where you criticize what you did when you were chairman. I don't have one, but if we don't replicate Mrs. Comic, I'm just asking you not to try to communicate with the minister in such a way, wait until you finish the presentation, the minister will have the right and opportunity to address you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43887	Now, that's the rule of law. So there's a hundred of us here, and I'm the only one who heard the minister talking to me. When I was talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43888	The minister only told you he'd answer, nothing more, but you kept trying to run the controversy with him. That's what I said and I said wait for you to finish your exposure, the minister will have the opportunity to speak to you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43889	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of the people's MPs whose discussions do not rarely give me the opportunity to enjoy. A national MP with a long parliamentary standing and certainly a person who knows very well parliamentary practice. I don't know why she would be uncomfortablely surprised, my explanation of the election function of the National Assembly, followed an exhibition by fellow MPs who in their presentation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43890	Please, Mr. Nikolic, allow the minister to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43891	Thank you. So my answer was, that is, my presentation followed a speech by one of the fellow Members of the People’s Parliament, who was carrying out a lack of knowledge of the election function of the National Assembly in this case. So you won't take it from me, I hope, for what it's worth. Our presentations here are being followed by the citizens of Serbia and sometimes it is good to clarify something. We're not going anywhere fast, and that's certainly not going to hurt. I have to look back at something that you just did, which is a respected predecessor to me, something indirect, I suppose, as a reference to Mr. Drecun's exposure, which he gave a rather substantial and long speech. I'll paraphrase your question to me, or one finding, where you said, if the minister of justice doesn't respond to the allegations from the predecessor's speech, then there's no rule of law. We're gonna have a bigger problem than it looks. Mr. Drecun said two things. There was one thing that concerned the excerpts of suspicion that a certain public prosecutor's office had given certain confidential information or official information at meetings with representatives of foreign embassies. At that time, Mr Drecun also said that for these very reasons, he had filed a criminal report, but also that he had filed some disciplinary reports and expected an answer, as this is the case. I don't see how the minister could react to that part of the predecessor's speech without jeopardizing the existence of the rule of law or the rule of law. The second part that Mr. Drecun made was, I quote, "political employment in the judiciary", the end of the quote. And he asked me a question, if I wrote it correctly, what would happen is that a person who is now the secretary of justice will tomorrow be elected deputy prosecutor in some public prosecutor's office. Don't take it for granted, but really, when we speak in the language of fact, if I remember correctly, and I remember, Mr Vekaric was the secretary of the Justice Department. And then, with one, at the time of political setting, he went to the deputy prosecutor. That's true. My predecessor, Mrs. Malovic, was head of the Justice Minister's office, so she went to the prosecutor's office, or to the public prosecutor's office. And that's a fact. Now, if my colleague Dracun was wrong or wrong, about when he said that these were examples of political influence or political employment, I don't know if there's a full definition of what political employment is or isn't, but the fact is that these are the people who were in the office of one minister, at his cabinet. I can really ask one rhetorical question, so I don't ask the distinguished predecessor who spoke. I don't know what tomorrow would look like when, it could happen in a month, it could happen in three months, maybe in a year, it doesn't matter when, the ministerial function is fleeting. What would happen if the persons who are now my chief of staff, the secretary of the ministry in my office, the Secretary of State or someone else were elected to be such a responsible office within the framework of a public prosecutor's organization? What was that about ten years ago, I'm not going to qualify, nor is that the theme of my speech, but since you publicly called me, saying that we have the same relationship with the rule of law, as one of the key values that should be strengthened in democratic denials, so, as it was called 10 years ago, I'm not getting into it. But if tomorrow it were to happen that a person who is my chief of staff today becomes a public prosecutor, or if the day after tomorrow would happen that a person who is today a state official and secretary of the ministry becomes a deputy prosecutor somewhere, I certainly know that when I say and you, I mean all the MPs, and I, too, would call it political employment. You know, I'm a member of the government who, once malicious, knows that they're transferring, like any previous government, it's somewhere in our political folklore, political employment, just me for this kind of political employment in the judiciary and in the prosecution, I haven't heard about the portfolio, whose head I'm headed for. Are there any of these examples from the past? He's got them. It is mentioned among the people you too, the names of the instructions, of course in the second context, compared to your colleague Drecun, also mentioned Mrs. Zivkovic, who is the secretary of the war crimes prosecutor. I'm getting circumstances, so the wife of the former Prime Minister. I've heard of her as a professional. I don't know a person. I wonder what would happen tomorrow when the wife of the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, would be employed in such a place? Would anyone call it political employment, too? Keep in mind that any furniture, any official, or public prosecutorial functions in these bodies are a very lucrative job. The salaries of function carriers range up to several hundred thousand dinars. And of course, these are responsible jobs, they should be well paid. But how to develop doubt here and what is expected when you say – if I do not respond to the predecessor's speech, then there is nothing of the rule of law. And in what? Do I have to attack these people? I can't think of anything. If someone doesn't have a problem with how they came to some place and they think it was legal, honest, fair, that's fine. On the other hand, when some were presented, there was some reasonable doubt that someone was giving official information to officials of foreign embassies. There's a way to determine that. I'm not the D.A.'s office, or the court, there are organs that need to determine that. When it comes to what we talked about about the criteria. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office in Article 82 makes it very clear – expertise implies having the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to perform the public prosecutorial function. The training involves skills that enable the effective application of specific legal skills in the resolution of public prosecutorial cases. Dignity implies moral traits that a public prosecutor, i.e. a deputy prosecutor, should also possess behaviour in accordance with these qualities. Moral personal honesty, security, justice, dignity, perseverance and exemplaryness, and behaviour in accordance with these qualities involves keeping the reputation of the public prosecutor's office in and outside the service, awareness of social responsibility, reflection of independence, impartiality, reliability and dignity in the service and outside it and taking responsibility for the internal organisation and a positive picture of the public prosecutor's office in public. The regulation in assessing the criteria and criteria for the assessment of deputy prosecutors and public prosecutors is valued by the legal criteria, which are expertise and training. When it comes to expertise and training, with the exception, don't hold me by my word, but a single-digit number of candidates, two or three candidates. They all got 50 points on the assessment of expertise and training. Dignity wasn't measured by points. There was no objection to candidate dignity. There is something that the State Council had in mind, as explained in the explanation, which is the presentation of the programme, the promotion and organisation of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. There's no law on that criterion. That criterion, or that criterion or that criterion, call it whatever you want, because there are no criteria, so when there's no criteria, then there can't be a criterion for something. It's very controversial, though. You know, in Serbian, our original word was measured, and the criterion is borrowed, although they obviously have different meanings in our legal terminology, but it was in mind and how the organisation and work programme was presented. Although one of the most respected fellow Members of the People’s Parliament, he noted very nicely, the most common programs are on the list of good wishes. I wouldn't say the esteemed predecessor said the list differed from two to three names. It differs in many more names than those who previously performed those functions. Are there any who were? There is. Is there anyone who wasn't in that position, at the office of a public prosecutor, I don't think the deputy, too. I'm going to quote you, or I'm going to quote my distinguished predecessor who says there are no violations of the law in the proposal, but there are violations of the law in an attempt that will actually be voted upon. I think it was a little lapus lingu. How can it be, how can there be a violation of the law in an attempt to vote for? If anyone can even break the law in an attempt to actually vote for, although I don't see a single element in breaking the law, then anyone who votes can do it because only he can break the law. So, the one who's trying to vote, that, you know, I can think of who might have committed a violation of the law in an attempt that would actually be voted upon if a person who isn't a MP showed up here and tried to vote. There have been such cases in our practice when we had more MPs than the Constitution prescribed, but I will respect what the distinguished predecessor said we would not return to 2009. We're not going back, she's fundamentally different. It was then that a general choice was made for all the deputy public prosecutors. What was the lack of that election, those who then passed the election as deputy prosecutor couldn't even compete for the prosecutor's post. When the Constitutional Court returned them to office, they entered the organs on which people were headed, a function that was not available to them, which was to be made available to them. It's not a dispute, this National Assembly has chosen those people to be high-ranking. I'm going to give you an example of a public prosecutor in the Nis Public Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Edward Jerin, chief public prosecutor, I think it may be the only public prosecutor in the Republic of Serbia who's been a student of the ages. This is the man who was released in 2009 to 2010 that he was not told in an explanation and that no one had ever told him what the reason was that he was resolved, and he is now in accordance with the Constitution and the laws performing his public prosecutorial function. As far as I know, he's working well with the top of the public prosecutor's organization and with his colleagues in the same title he's in. It really represents an expert authority in a public prosecutor's organization, and I think unfortunately it's been shared for about a year, a year and a half, until retirement, so I say unfortunately, because where are we lucky that such people are more in a public prosecutor's organization? I apologize if the word was allowed to serve the term of office, certainly not an appropriate word, but that it was allowed and that no public prosecutor's office was disrupted, until the end of his term as public prosecutor, I think that's absolutely true. It is mentioned, one fence was made, says – except Vladimir Vukčević. That's where I'd agree with you. He's been extended. I will remind you, about 11 months ago, that the law has changed that the prosecutor, Vladimir Vukcevic, would remain in office until the completion of the term of office he was elected to, regardless of the general rules on work with 65 years of age, if I am not mistaken, I think that it took place on 20th, 21st or 24th January, so he is the only public prosecutor currently in the Republic of Serbia who is more than 65 years old and who is in public prosecutor's office. So, not that he was challenged to stay, he stayed longer, or until the end of his term. So this is a confirmation of exactly what I was talking about in the opening statement. This is a confirmation that it was allowed and that there was a political will, perhaps it was the best provision, there was a political will to strengthen the rule of law institutions and give a positive example of how any future power should behave, no public prosecutor in Serbia has, in political language, been removed or removed before the expiry of its prescribed mandate. That's progress compared to any previous government. As for the action plan for negotiating chapters 23 and 24, in several places I have spoken about it, I think it is good to mention it to the MPs in the House of the People's Parliament, it is not a question of whether we can fulfill it or not. The moment an action plan is adopted, it is our obligation and all the measures prescribed by the action plan are something that we ourselves have committed to fulfilling within the deadlines given in that action plan. Therefore, it is a job that, for the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, from the National Assembly, to every body, organisation, including the ministries, independent regulatory bodies, will become a obligation, such as any law that adopts the National Assembly for each in Serbia to rule, unless it is governed by the law, so it is called for responsibility. So there will be an action plan, a prescribed measure, that measure must be met within a given time limit. I think that's good, that we have as little uncertainty as possible and as few unknowns as possible, which, unfortunately, different governments before us, including this government, have faced exclusively political criteria that no one has ever been able to tell us with certainty when they are considered to be fulfilled, when they are not considered. There's always been a new and new request. The action plan puts it in order, to put it that way, is basically channeling that path. Do political criteria remain, especially when it comes to difficult talks between Belgrade and Pristina? They stay, that may be the hardest, most complicated and most painful question. But when it comes to the chapter, in particular Chapter 23, for which the highest degree of responsibility is borne by the Ministry of which I am headed, that is not the question we will or will not ask. The moment we entered this process, when an action plan is adopted, we must stick to it. If we don't stick to it, the negotiations are interrupted. So, much, much higher level of legal certainty and certainty than it was before. When it comes to, I'm going to mention it one more time, the criteria of expertise and training, the maximum points is 50 and the convincing majority of all candidates got the same number of points. So we can talk about it some other time, does that suggest that there's some kind of flaw in the way we measure these criteria? I can totally agree with you, if that's, say, one of your thoughts. That's the rule. That rule also went beyond the expertise of the European Commission. They said it was okay. Moreover, these criteria are closely set. The candidate can get either zero points or 30 points or 50 points. So there's no nuances, and sometimes nuances are very important. For me, and that's what I said when Mr. Djurisic spoke to him on his discussion, it's important for me that those public prosecutors that the National Assembly chooses to do their job. It's something that's most important, and they need to perform it strictly professionally, impartially. I want to say something here, so I absolutely stand behind every word I've said and what I'm about to say, if such public prosecutors, so those who are here are going to choose, during the conduct of investigative and investigative actions, come up with evidence that points to the suspicion that someone who belongs to this government or to this party in which I or any other coalition party, broke the law, wronged him, sailed into the waters of corruption and organised crime, such the first to be sanctioned, without any doubt. I think it's the principle of someone who is serious about politics in Serbia and responsible for politics. A lot of citizens listened to each other and watched something. There have been some discussions of fellow MPs here about it. In my view, these are key steps in establishing a clear system of rule of law. Tomorrow, when someone with evidence of political bias comes forward, they need to question whether that's the case. So no immunity compared to cases like that. These prosecutors must be better, those who have been proposed, and have not been in the position of a public prosecutor before, must be better than the previous ones, whoever is elected. Those who were before, and were proposed by those who did good, get not one more chance, but a chance to be even better than they were before. We have a new Code of Criminal Procedure, a prosecutor's investigation which, as in any of the other countries that have entered it, shows some of the symptoms that are wanted, some that are unwanted. It's important that we treat it the right way, and that's what action plans give us as a possibility, not as a possibility, but make it a commitment to do, to do a serious analysis of the effects of some regulations that have been in place for a year, two, three years, and to see what needs to be done to make the effects even better. But what I really think is better than any previous election process is that this election process is done in a way that is qualitatively significantly above the previous ones. Who's the credit for that? Not to me personally. It belongs to the political will demonstrated by this government, but also something else. You know, as much as we used to deal with purely political qualifications, I grade, I don't like to compare, I don't like to tell you right now, I don't like to compare myself to the colleagues who did this job before me, and I want to believe that everyone who did it had good intentions first. As those intentions ended, that's another question. This is a responsible and difficult job and whether it is a colleague of Malovic, whether he is a colleague of Petrovic, a colleague of Stojkovic, of the late counterpart Batic, anyway. All of these were people who faced certain problems and challenges over a certain period of time. As they knew, could and could, they did the job. In the elections, citizens appreciated the success or failure of the job. One day, he'll appreciate how I did it. But for the sake of legal stability, that is to say, in order to achieve greater legal stability, the higher level of rule of law, I am responsibly arguing, and I believe that this process of choice was much better than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43892	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of our National Assembly, Mr Arsenovicu, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, today we are discussing who should be prosecutor for organised crime, who should be prosecutor for war crimes and who 52 will be prosecutors in the primary and senior public prosecutors in our country. The order was, I think, to remind ourselves, after this fundamental debate today, once again of what we are discussing, Mr Arsenovic. Minister Selakovic, rightly, I think, points out here today the importance of the topic and the importance of the debate on this topic. On the importance of this topic best, I think, from both the MPs and one minister in the government, testify to the Constitution of our Republic and I think, respected gentlemen, since Minister Selakovic has said here many times today that the most important thing is that these people are going to do their jobs, that it may be convenient to remind them once again, I believe that they are following this debate too, and that I would certainly follow the whole debate from the beginning to the end, the importance of what they will be doing, and to direct them to one part by calling on the Constitution and the responsibility that relates to their work. Article 156(1) - The public prosecutor's office is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences and takes measures to protect constitutionality and legality. Of course, it's very important. The issue of accountability may be the most important in today's debate for those candidates for these positions, and here is what in Article 160 of our Constitution states in Section 2, and as regards the responsibility, to hear these candidates – public prosecutors are responsible for the work of the Public Prosecutor and for their work to the Republic Public Prosecutor and the National Assembly, and lower public prosecutors and directly to the High Prosecutor. Minister Selakovic says today – it is impeccable and in a procedural sense, the procedure always brings us back to the rule of law, I do have one question here, Minister Selakovic, about this integrity of procedure, and form, and respect – how come we do not have one special session of the Assembly just to discuss this topic? If we have all witnessed here today that the topic is so important for both citizens and these candidates and for our Republic, how come we don't have one special session of the Assembly just to discuss it? Mr. Selakovic, I asked Mr. Babic yesterday, and Mr. Babic can say if he was, will he vote today for this not to be the only topic, but to join about this topic twenty-one more topics, Minister Selakovic? Mr Babic responded to me next, and this is what I tell you, Mr Selakovic, because you are members of the same political party, Mr Babic's actions on behalf of the SNS, Mr Pavicevic does not make the difference between decisions and the law, and I have collected the agenda points, respected gentlemen, and I wonder here today – was it not appropriate for these 54 persons, who are concerned with their actions, when it comes to public prosecutors, to put in a special session of the National Assembly, and not to divorce us now and our debate by placing this topic as one, Minister Selakovic, from the points? I think this approach has somehow defiled what you have called integrity in upholding the procedure. How come this finish isn't done, let's just say, to the end, we didn't go the way we were supposed to? Plus, I think and I agree here that there is no dilemma for anyone who knows our constitutional system, that our National Assembly is a political institution, that it is a central political institution, that we make political decisions here, but what? Here, therefore, honored gentlemen, we meet who have different systems of ideas, beliefs, values, opinions, we run these systems and we try to convince each other of our systems. What else is political decision-making in a political institution? I agree here with all those who have thus argued about our debate in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43894	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43895	Thank you, Mr. Arsenović, and I'm sorry I overstepped these 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43896	It's not a problem. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43897	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can see that a debate from a virtual world, such as social networks, is being transferred to the Pleum Hall. At the same time, I would tell my colleagues to the previous speaker the message of a professor who taught rhetoric to reduce vocals if he didn't need to yell. That's not my word. Those are the words of the one where the previous speaker taught rhetoric. However, to the previous speaker, when he paid tribute to why today's session we are discussing 53 decisions on the selection of basic, senior prosecutors and prosecutors for organised crime and war crimes prosecutors... What I would like to get to know the public is that the time, which would be foreseen for the parliamentary groups and for the independent MPs and that there is a special session and this way when one of the joined points of the agenda, is absolutely the same and none of the MPs in this session are in any less important position than it would be if it were a special session. However, what bothers me, how the previous speaker, Mr Pavicevic, did not mind when the parliamentary group and the party on whose list it was, the DS, joined a decision on the election of judges to a three-year term, together with a decision to elect a deputy prosecutor with the Emergency Law. What do emergency situations have to do with selecting a deputy prosecutor? Then 53 deputy prosecutors were not elected. Then, for information, Mr Pavicevic was elected straight 877. Imagine me, as a folk MP in 2009, how much time I had to spend reading the biographies of all 877 prosecutors, and Mr. Pavicevic is a problem to read 53. That means I'm at least 18 times better than Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43898	Mr. Pavicevic, the story that was outside this assembly is not the subject of a debate at the session. I wouldn't want to turn a debate on such an important subject of what you've been talking about and talking about. I had to give Mr. Babic a line because you called him. I don't think there's any point in opening it any further. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can I explain? I ask you to understand me and sit down, because I will not give you a replica. Mr Stojmirovic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43899	About this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43900	You are not logged in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43901	I signed up, but I wasn't called.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43902	You're not here. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43903	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is very important what we decide to do. The vote on proposals submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia to this parliament will be tonight after 1800 hours. What makes me happy as a professional is that the whole procedure has been implemented in a legal way in a completely relaxed atmosphere, without any pressure, blackmail, various affairs that followed the election and re-election of prosecutors in 2009. I am particularly pleased that since the election of Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic in 2012, the SNS he represents, the Ministry of Justice has not conducted a political cleanup of prosecutors. In particular, I point out that no prosecutor elected in 2009 to 2010 has been removed, has been changed and we have shown no political evil will, compared to what has been done in a completely illegal way since 2009. And today, those who took part in the hacks, in cleanups, in the Stalinist erasure of perhaps the best personnel in Serbia's prosecutors, have the cheeks, have the desire to honor us, or this Ministry, or the DVT, did not do the job in a valid way. That's not true. This is the finale of a legal process that began on 9 September 2015 with an ad in "Politica". At that contest, with clear indications, to whom he surrenders, the necessary documentation could run and anyone who wanted to apply. A commission has been formed to determine whether the timely applications, whether they are complete, and afterwards, a board of five members was created in DVT, consisting of three from the prosecution and two professional people who are not from the prosecution, and they were in the most direct way through interviews, talks with candidates determined both their expertise and their training and in the extreme line and their dignity. No one in this assembly, nor has anyone in the three months of this process, pointed out to any candidate that he is not worthy to perform this function, no one has turned to the public and said that he is not professional, now shows this home tonight, and I am sure that the SNS parliamentary group will also declare itself on all candidates in the voting day. We have an opinion on the candidates for the Prosecutor for Organized Crime and the Prosecutor for War Crimes. I am grateful to the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for giving us the MPs, as representatives of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to plead with these candidates by giving our opinion, and we are not forced in any way by who should be elected. I am convinced that all MPs in this assembly have their built-up position, relating to the candidates, I am convinced that we will express that attitude in about an hour and I am grateful that we are doing all this in a completely politically peaceful atmosphere, in one correct relationship and according to these candidates, we have not heard a single bad word about anyone. What I would like to suggest to you, of course, and the DVT, is that for the five that we should elect senior, or senior public prosecutors and 25 in the basic prosecutions, this procedure is done as soon as possible, so that we have one full capacity of the prosecution in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, to cover the entire Republic of Serbia with this network and to expect all the prosecutors that we will now choose to act by law, that only the Constitution and the law can be among their actions, and we are here that, having chosen them, we control their work and at every moment of your life, at every suggestion, which will be based on the fact that someone has not done their job properly, that he has done it in a way that doesn't suit one prosecutor, was the primary prosecutor or prosecutor for war crimes, or the prosecutor for organised crime, is being set up in this House. I'm taking the chance that before we choose these colleagues, I congratulate them all. I'm sure we'll adopt all the suggestions that you've made, and as far as the attorney generals and senior prosecutors are concerned, and since you've given us the opportunity, we'll also be able to make clear which of these candidates we'll choose as Prosecutor for Organized Crime and War Crimes Prosecutor. All this brings us to become truly one serious state, that our judiciary is based solely on the Constitution and the law, and this will be a major contribution to opening chapters 23 and 24 in the first half of the following year. I am sure that today we will make one decision that will help Serbia to open chapters 23 and 24 in the first half of 2016, and I hope that some other chapters will be opened, because we really deserve it. Thank you, Minister, for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43904	Thank you. Natasha Vukkovic is not here. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43905	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would really not repeat myself after good and good discussions, as well as Mr. Minister's answers. What is most important and what I would mention is that, through today's discussions, both through statements and MPs of the opposition and positions, it is seen in Serbia that the rule of law is at work. What everyone pointed out and pointed out, including opposition colleagues, that it is a legal procedure and that all the laws are respected in this business, starting with the procedure of forming the Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors, and until the decision is taken by the Government and the decision that the Government has passed on to us today to choose after 16 hours, I claim good and best candidates, since for none of the 61 candidates for 54 functions I have not heard a single ugly word today. All these people are people who are many years long in the judiciary, who have actions behind them, both personal and working. What I would particularly like to point out, this is what counterpart Dragan Nikolic pointed out, it is a pleasure that since 2009 even though we have had two cycles of elections, in 2012 and 2014, all public prosecutors have completed their six-year term. What I would say to the people we choose today for these responsible state functions, just four words, to respect the Constitution, to respect the law, to be worthy and to be honest. I hope that our trusted trust will in any case justify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43906	Thank you. Alexander Markovic is not here. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or if he has not yet used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43907	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to point out once again those points from our discussions of the so far and my colleague Gordana Comić and my colleagues Homen. It's a matter of criteria. On what criteria did the Government deliver these proposals to us? We have reason to suspect that these criteria are not just criteria of expertise. That's why we're talking about now that we're going to have to make a political decision here based on this government proposal. Of course, parliament is making political decisions, but it is very bad when these political decisions are, decisions on political similarity, because there is doubt that if there is not enough transparency and enough arguments when candidates are proposed by the government, the Assembly, then it can be suspected that it will then be about candidates who have been moved from the ranking list in a different way than what the State's larger prosecutors have proposed. So it is about candidates who are politically similar to the government and the ruling majority in this House. It's not good, it's not good for the rule of law and it's not good for some trust in the rule of law. We will certainly follow what the prosecution will do, and we will follow how they will act. I will remind myself again of what is one of the main criticisms that has been brought years ago in the annual press release on Serbia's progress by the European Commission that one of the common phenomena that requires a great condemnation and ultimately requires that it be eradicated from our practice of leaking information from police, prosecutions in tabloids and in which people are muddying. This leak of information leads to people being accused. Although no court proceedings have been initiated, there is a violation of the presumption of innocence and of the human rights of individuals and the numerous fates of families and their environment. It's something that we have to pay attention to, and if there's not an end to the conflict between the police and the prosecution and the tabloids in the state, of course, it's that this link reveals and in some way effectively prevents its existence, then we won't have a legal state and we won't have the rule of law and then we'll confirm what many suspect and what they're constantly criticizing, that we're making good laws, that we may even have good decisions, that we may even have good intentions, but that in the application of that, we don't actually carry out reforms, and the reforms are nothing more than to implement what you promised to implement. In this regard, of course, the Action Plan for Chapter 23 has been mentioned, and in this sense we have talked about the obligation that we are prepared to accept, which is to exclude the National Assembly, or to reduce, if you want me to be more precise, political influence on the choice of judicial holders, and that includes judges and public prosecutors, at least according to what the final version of the Action Plan for Chapter 23 has been adopted. In that sense, of course, and I understood this government that it intends to move, and finally, the minister spoke about it, and that is why we in our debate pointed out that it would be good for the public prosecutors to go somewhere in this election that the state's council of prosecutors really had a dominant role to play in proposing candidates, and that the government did not overrule their decision by making some candidates, who were not ranked as the state's larger prosecutors, rank them in a different way without transparent criteria. It was our observation, and we think that we may not have done enough, or the government may not have acted wisely enough in this regard, with regard to the election of public prosecutors. There was an opportunity to show a very different intention here and to show the desire to minimise political influence from the judiciary, reduce, reduce and abolish ultimately because that is what makes it impossible for the rule of law and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43908	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43909	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may be a good practice and a good example that when you answer someone with argument, they continue to make identical claims. Of course, it's everyone's right and I don't dispute it. Once someone points out something that's already been denied, I'm going to reprove it. It was said during the debate -- it could be suspected that candidates, perhaps politically similar candidates, were mentioned in a certain shift in the ranking list, that the government is overruling the State's council's decision. Whoever has any doubt can only take and read Article 74. The public prosecutor's law, otherwise adopted in 2008, which clearly states that the public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government for a six-year period and can be re-elected. The proposed candidates for the Republic Public Prosecutor shall be given an opinion of the committee responsible for the National Assembly. The government proposes to the National Assembly of one or more candidates for the election as public prosecutor. Repeatedly, the government is proposing to the National Assembly one or more candidates for the election as public prosecutor. Candidates from Item 2 of this member of the government are proposing from a list of candidates established by the State's major prosecutor. To make one thing clear, this will be understood by those who are legally written, who are trained for graduate lawyers, so it's easy for them to understand. In Article 74. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the legislator, speaks about the candidate list, and in article 82, he talks about the ranking list. There are two different lists here. For his own needs, the State's Chief Prosecutors are making a ranking list, and he is sending the government a list of candidates he considers to meet the conditions to be candidates and to be proposed to the National Assembly for election as a public prosecutor. I am pleased that both MPs and MPs of the opposition have made one claim on several occasions today, which is that this procedure has been implemented in accordance with the applicable regulations. Of course, some colleagues and fellow MPs have both made their wish or unfulfilled expectations where the government was expected to go a little over what was signed by law, to meet something that would happen in the future. Whatever comes, we are next to him, as the great Hegos says in the "Gorean Wreath", when the time comes to change the Constitution, when the time comes to change the regulations that regulate this area, we will do so. That is what we are committed to by the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23. There were words, indeed, and different arguments and arguments, only nobody told me – how are we going to remove political influence from the judiciary or the prosecution that occurred in the general election of judges and prosecutors? It is indisputable, by changing the Constitution, that influence will be defied by future holders of functions in the executive or legislative authority, and what about those chosen solely by political criteria and exclusively by political influence and which, of course, because of the continuity of judicial functions, remain in place? To this no one will give us an answer, I am the answer, and I will immediately tell you, there is no legally valid solution to the adjudication of this political influence, which means that the political influence of some previous authorities in Serbia will be on certain holders of judicial functions and how it will survive. Thank you. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43910	I don't see a basis for replication. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43911	Just one question. On the basis of what criteria did the government propose to the assembly of candidates who were ranked differently in relation to the proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors? For us, the transparency of these criteria is important, to know that it is not a political decision, or that it is not a political likeness. That's the main question for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43912	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43913	I'd love to, but I've been answering these questions a few times already. So I'm sorry that an esteemed colleague tends to leave the National Assembly Hall when I talk about it. If we are talking about political incompatibility, I have responded very clearly, more than 90% of these candidates who have been proposed were elected to public prosecutorial office at a time when the party's respected predecessors were in power. Therefore, if it were a political likeness, I do not believe that I am such a masochist or one who is in power to propose to someone who is not politically similar to him, but unfortunately, many of them were not a criterion. Here the criterion is purely expertise and I have already said that 97% or 98% of the candidates on the DVT lists are rated according to their skills and skills with 50 points. These are the only criteria mentioned in the law and which are in accordance with the law. It was in mind and how they represented their programs, but we had heard a lot about it in the National Assembly during the debate so I don’t see what the problem would be. Many discussions and all that has been said give the impression that a convincing majority of MPs, regardless of the party from which they come, will support these proposals. Someone may not be all of them, but who doesn't understand how a proposal is being made by the government, he can read Article 74. The public prosecutor's law and everything will be clear to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43914	I thank the ministers. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43915	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, we won't be long, this is my last attempt in line with the Rules of Procedure, lastly, to get an answer from you, which was the government's criteria to select certain candidates from the list offered by the State's larger prosecutors, between the candidates you say, 97% of them had a maximum number of points based on expertise and training, which means that in each election there were two, three or more candidates who had a maximum number of points based on expertise and training. What defined the government as giving priority to certain candidates, or to those candidates who were delivered here today as a proposal from one candidate to choose, not as a list? So what did the government define if it wasn't a political resemblance, which we suspect it was. You, all the time you're saying it's legal and I told you, so you're putting it to me, you're twisting my words that I said it was all by law. It was all by law and what was done by the State's Major Prosecutors and it is by law what the Government was doing, but there is a lack of law, because the law does not say what the government's criteria are. So, he says, he draws up a list of State Major Prosecutors taking into account the expertise, skills, dignity, not taking into account the plan of working on the prosecution's work organisation in the future or a list of good wishes as there has been a discussion here. I agree here, but then the government at session 17 or I don't know which December she sat down and didn't respect the rank list, or the number of points that the State's Major Prosecutors delivered because it's not bound by the law. I agree with that, on the basis of what criteria has the government made a decision? That's what I'm curious about. Then I'm also interested, why wasn't this criterion used in the adoption of a motion to elect the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime? Why did the government give up coming here with a proposal for the prosecution rather than resorting to a list of candidates? So why are there different arches? That's what you here have been answering our questions for hours trying to avoid answering. What was the government's criterion for selecting certain names from the candidate list? I didn't hear that from you, whether you were in the O.R. during the day or not, believe me, I listened to you every time you spoke. To answer another thesis that there was no dispute here and an ugly word about candidates who are now in front of the National Assembly. You know, there's this big difference between us and the MPs of certain ruling majority who think it's allowed here to attack people, talk about things, judge them, judge them here in the assembly. We've had two, three days to get to know the names, last names, biographies of these 57, 58 as well as all those on the State's Council of Prosecutors lists. I, in those three days, have not been able to get enough information to bring charges here on anyone's account, which doesn't mean I don't have them, but just means that I'm responsible enough not to go out and wave around here and accuse some people like we did here today by other MPs who took the right to accuse, judge, condemn other people who aren't here and can't defend themselves. It's inappropriate and we don't behave like that here. I can't guarantee there's no one on this list who might be controversial, but in order to do that, I need to be 100% sure of what I'm saying, I didn't have enough time for that, and I resent the government among other things. This does not contribute to the European integration that you are talking about. I quoted Commissioner Han here this morning as talking about the urgency of the procedure and what it's supposed to mean and how it should be used, and today we have the whole session in an emergency procedure with a desire to hide something. I haven't been able to find in this proposal what you want to hide, to tell you the truth, but it doesn't mean there's no such thing. As in this bill that we will discuss later tonight, there are a lot of things that the government wants to hide and that is why it has brought them all together in one debate to prevent us from talking about all the harmful things that this government is doing against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Please try to answer that question in a few minutes, what was the government's criteria, in the government, that you from the list of candidates that were sent to you by the State's greater prosecutors would choose the ones you suggested here? If 97% of them got a maximum score based on their expertise and skills, what was your criterion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43916	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43917	Since sometimes the heat of a congregation debate knows that there has really been something terrible, although one sentence of the respected predecessor is really a light motive for the whole discussion where it is said, I quote - I failed to find what you wanted to hide, but that doesn't mean you didn't want to hide anything. I'm really fascinated by this. You know, there's one thing called auto-projection in psychology, that's when you measure other people's actions based on how you would act in the same situation. Well, when you say what it was that defined the government if it wasn't a political resemblance, it would have to mean that the government can only define political similarities and nothing else. If you have, for example, a more public prosecutor's office of four candidates and you can't say that the previous three candidates were fantastic in their work scores, then I think it's quite rational for the government to define who was not a prosecutor, because what the European Commission's report honours is that much more efforts must be made to fight organised crime and corruption and against general crime. Also, a fantastic sentence is said again – everything is according to the law, but the law does not say what the criterion is. So the law left a discretionary right to the government to come up with a proposal. I'm glad there's not a single candidate who can get close to nothing. You know, what's normal somewhere in Serbia's political life. Two days ago, a colleague, a party activist, called me and mentioned that there was one person on the list of proposed candidates, whose brother is a member of the Democratic Party. I asked him, said – okay, can you tell me that this person is unprofessional, can you tell me that she's unprofessional, can you tell me that she's not doing her job well? She says no, but her brother is a member of the Democratic Party, I say - yes, but we don't choose her brother, we choose that person. Once again, let me say, therefore, the law very clearly says the government can propose one or more candidates, the law does not say by which criteria the government proposes one or more candidates, except by sticking to the State Council of Prosecutors criteria. The state's major prosecutors provided the government with a list of candidates that does not include a single point, and the state's major prosecutors said in the explanation of the list that all candidates equally meet the conditions for performing the public prosecutor's post. The state council therefore had a legal obligation to carry out, to express myself in such a way, triage, a professional selection of candidates. And that's what it did. Why is this criterion, not a criterion, but why is the Government, here's a corrected maybe a little question, why the government decided when it comes to candidates for multiple and primary prosecutors, proposes one, and candidates for the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crimes and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office proposes a list. Because the government attaches special importance to these public prosecutors and because the government wants to tell the National Assembly -- here you are, our proposal is someone on this list, and you are the sole decision-maker, who will be the new prosecutor for organised crime or war crimes prosecutor, you are making the decision. I think my colleague Babic talked about it, about when you give one candidate, what you gave one candidate, and when you give more candidates, and the more candidates you give, about telling us, whatever you've done, you have to repent. We should not repent, we should be proud of the way we run this country, we should be proud that for the first time we do not have a politically motivated choice of public prosecutors and that we have moved things in a positive direction compared to previous public prosecutors' elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43918	Mr. Djurish, please, I want to tell you something. If I were you, I know the answer I'd expect, and if I were the minister and that's exactly what you're expecting, I would never tell you. Therefore, there is no need for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43919	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43920	Tell me on what basis do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43921	The minister misread me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43922	Please, I've followed closely, and I think he's just answered you to the extent of the existing law and regulations, and I really don't think there's any point in having a debate right now, because we're never going to end it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43923	Thank you, I don't want to yell, but please give me the right to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43924	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. Dear People's MPs, since we have completed the search for proposals for the election of public prosecutors from agendas 1 to 53, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can determine that the day of voting on a bill-specific bill, will be immediately upon the completion of the examination of the bill. In accordance with this provision, I set 21st December 2015, starting at 18.30pm, as the Election Day on proposals for the election of public prosecutors from points 1 to 53 of the agenda of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43925	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you that the session requires most of the total number of MPs. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I conclude that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Point 1. - List of candidates for the election of organised crime prosecutors and a list of candidates for the election of war crimes prosecutors. We're moving on to a decision. First of all, we approach the vote on candidates on the list for the election of prosecutors for organised crime. I am putting the motion to elect Miljko Radisavljevic, Prosecutor for Organized Crime, as prosecutor for organised crime. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, v - one, abstention - one, 137 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I would like to put the motion to elect Mladen Nenadic, lawyer, Cačak, as Prosecutor for Organized Crime. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted for 15 of the 154 MPs present. I am voting on a proposal to elect Tomislav Kilibard, a public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as the prosecutor for organised crime. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I am voting on the proposal to elect Sonja Milicevic, deputy public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, as the prosecutor for organised crime. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for the Prosecutor for Organized Crime has chosen Mladen Nenadić, the lawyer, the Barcak Bar Association. Let me congratulate you on your choice and wish my colleagues a lot of success in the work. We now approach the vote on candidates on the list for the election of war crimes prosecutors. I am voting on a proposal to elect Snezana Stanojkovic, deputy public prosecutor at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, for the war crimes prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 75, against – no one, with abstention – voted 88 of the 163 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Dejan Terzic, judge at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, as war crimes prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 109 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 52 of the 162 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Djordje Ostojic, the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor for the War Crimes Prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 162 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Milan Petrovic, deputy war crimes prosecutor for the war crimes prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the 162 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Mioljub Vitorovic, deputy war crimes prosecutor for the war crimes prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 162 MPs present. Based on the results of the vote, I can find out that we didn't elect a war crimes prosecutor. Candidate Dejan Terzic has 109 votes, Snezana Stanojkovic 75, the second much less, Djordje Ostojić six, Mioljub Vitorovic seven. I'll see what kind of procedure it is. We didn't choose anyone this time. We're moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovec, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – voted 13 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 12 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Somboro, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Great Public Prosecutor's Office in the King, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Požega, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Leskovac, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the primary public prosecutor's office in Lebanon, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Raska, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Obrenovac, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Lazarevec, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, abstentioned – one, voted eight of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Great City, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Pogorevec, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I'm putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney General's Office in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornji Milanovac, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Sremska Mitrovica, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in Vrsac's main public prosecutor, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Home Attorney's Office in Novi Sad, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sainta, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Vienna, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Kikinda, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Arangelovac, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Tristenik, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor at the Paracino Public Prosecutor's Office, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. That's what we're done with today's vote. We're going to the next item on the agenda. I'm asking the ministers to enter the O.R., if they're listening, if they don't, I'm asking the Protocol to bring them in. I would like to inform you that today I have called for the session to be attended by Professor Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic, Finance Minister Zeljko Sertic, Minister of Industry, Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy Ivan Tasovac, Minister of Culture and Information and Dr Srdjan Verbic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, as well as their associates. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled and uniform search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing of Goods, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedures and Tax Administration, Proposal for an Act on the Law on Taxation and Tax Administration, Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Taxation of Citizens, Proposal for Acts on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Act on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of Serbia, on the Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has first Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43926	Dear MPs, I will try to be as brief as possible in this opening statement as possible, and again in very clear terms, to explain the laws with which we are addressing you today for adoption. The economy ministry, or the Serbian government, is today proposing five new laws to regulate different areas in Serbia's economic life. So, the Cooperatives Act, the Chamber Act, the Single Record Act and the two laws that treat the privatisation area. Let me first address you with an explanation for the adoption of the Cooperatives Act. Eleven years in the last, several times the law on cooperatives has been moved by the procedure of its adoption and has been interrupted several times, because it could not find common agreement between all actors and all participants in these processes, nor a common language that could be defined later through certain legal acts, in order to appear before you. So for 11 years, we have two powers, two laws that, in their basic provisions, undermine each other and in no way helped us to revitalise the principle of co-operation in Serbia. This is a general law concerning all co-operatives in Serbia. So, on the very agricultural cooperatives alone, although the majority of the cooperatives in Serbia that operate almost 65% are just agricultural cooperatives, but are also treated by youth, housing and other cooperatives. I'll give you more information in that section. What's important to us is that cooperatives in the developed world are one of the engines to develop all economic relations. In our case, since it is extremely bad in the previous period, and this previous period is back 30-40-50 years, practical cooperatives have never lived on market grounds and have never given the real effects of what cooperatives in the developed world mean. This primarily means if we talk about agriculture as, again, I repeat the most dominant form of cooperatives exactly means their assistance to small agricultural producers, representing common interests, facilitating market breakthroughs and domestic but also abroad, regulating all of those other obligations we had. In this law, after 11 years, we will be able to solve one of the key things that is the issue of property legal relations. Today we have about 50,000 hectares of cooperative property and this cooperative property is largely defined as social property. What's the history of all this, and how did it come? Practically cooperatives that existed in the post-World War II period are grouped into different economic organisations OUR, SOUR combined and practically in this way the country is nationalised by peasants. Some cooperatives have tried to return some of their assets and define it in some subsequent time. Certain laws we've dealt with trying to solve this property problem have succeeded in the past to define what social property is, and what is state property. The basic question was whether there would be a review of all these legal acts or not. We have decided to propose to you a model in which everything that the Republic Catastre has done will be accepted, to enable cooperatives to make possible everything that has been acquired by the burden of legal work in previous x years, to be defined as cooperative property. If we give cooperative assets that can be officially enrolled in Catastra, they will also be able to raise loans, they will be able to treat cooperatives in a completely different way in the future and they will be able to have a lot of good market potentials that cooperatives carry around the world, and be resolved with us. On the other hand, this law will enable us to solve a much simpler way of organising cooperatives. Today, only five people are required to establish a new cooperative, that these shares do not have to be equal, to define the cooperative's capital at the least possible amount and other solutions that will allow far easier and voting, but also management of cooperatives. So at the very conclusion, I could say that this is only the first step in revitalising Serbia's cooperative and that this law opens up broad opportunities for all those who want to freely join their newly established cooperatives, but also for those who are already united, to do their jobs much better and better. I would like to say that a broad and long debate has been held on this subject and that these solutions have also been supported by the Association of Serbia and the Association of Vojvodina. The second law that we are going to treat today and which we are asking you to support is the Law on Chambers of Commerce, on a unique chamber system that should allow that after many years of breaking up the chamber system in Serbia that has an extremely long tradition, since 1856, when Belgrade traders established their first association and practically since they submitted their request to Prince Aleksandr Karadjordjevic to establish an association that would define their interests and represent them before the then state, thus the chamber was established in its beginnings. Later, over a number of years different transformations experienced. The most difficult blow to Serbia's chamber system to be the original representative of the economy's interest was in 2009 when the then unique chamber system was completely broken into 16 regional chambers, two provinces and one city chamber, or the Belgrade city chamber. Afterwards, the chambers became almost "feudi" in their interests without clear goals, without organised participation in economic life and representing the interests of businessmen and brought with them a number of problems that we faced during the previous period. We will have the opportunity to talk much more through the debate about all the elements and advantages of such an organization, but let me just a few very important things show that this law will change the current situation, the current way and maybe give a few answers to your questions that will be followed in this future period. Today's situation when we talk about collecting a membership fee which is a very common issue and disputes within the chamber system, it looks like this – a chamber, for example. in Novi Sad, a business operator operating in Novi Sad pays three membership fees and three contributions to chambers. He pays a special membership fee to the Novi Sad Chamber of Commerce, pays a special membership fee to the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce and ultimately pays a special membership fee to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. This law deletes such a way of functioning completely. Businesses will pay only one membership fee in line with their economic interests and a decision on membership fee will be made by the economy. So neither the government nor anyone but the businessmen themselves, and in this sense there will be one whole set of different incentives, or elements that will affect what this relationship will be, but it is a very important thing that first there will be a far smaller amount for all companies paying membership today, and secondly, in a very simple and transparent way it will be allocated among the members of the chamber system. It is important for us to encourage by this law all of the crucial economic elements that the Serbian government wants to achieve on an international basis, but also in Serbia's economic life. We have talked many times about a dual education system or whatever the experts call it in a different way, but this system is impossible without a single chamber system in which all businesses and members will participate in it. This system is impossible without a well-organized model in which to know who makes the connection between businessmen and between schools. In all the developed countries of the world, from Germany, Austria, I am talking about European countries above all, Italy, France, there is a system of organization everywhere, and there is a key engine of development in these countries of exactly well-organised chamber system everywhere. We have already announced and you could read it in the media that in the following year we will completely change economic diplomacy. The results we've had so far have been catastrophic. I could talk about it for a long time, but I won't bother you with any data or the results of all this because we have had the opportunity to see how much it cost all of Serbia's citizens, and what the results were in terms of bringing investors or export potentials to our economy. The Serbian Chamber of Commerce and its members in the future will be able to define in a completely different way the system of public authority, which today is for everything that the state has given the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to do. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce cannot transfer it to other legal entities. So, the unique chamber system in which each one gets something in another organisational form will allow a businessman from Nis, Leskovec, Subotica, to no longer have the documents needed to do his job to send, bring, surrender in person to Belgrade, but will be able to do so in the nearest chamber in his town. Most of you who have been members of this parliament before know that in previous laws of arbitration and international arbitration and the court of honor and practically three courts so far that existed in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. International arbitration is very important to us, especially from this point of view when we look at every way to attract international investors. The Paris-based international arbitration has a long tradition and is respected by international institutes and international law, but also by companies and they like to see that such a system of organization exists with us. Should I say how important it is for the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to make available through its business service information and analytical results and all fears of good practice for all norms that will bring quality of life within the regulatory framework of the economy itself. In one of the next laws I'm going to explain to you, we're going to try to prevent abuse in the economy. One of the best ways is when the economy does it itself, when the businessmen are trying to solve this kind of abuse and behavioral behavior, and this is definitely going to be one of the very important things. We also establish one of the new institutes, one of the very important new rights, which is that all the laws passed by the Serbian government, or before they come to you here, on all these laws concerning economic life, the economic life in Serbia, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce should give its opinion, positive or negatively, well explained, but that we know that we have a good partner, that we know that in the right way every item of the proposal will be analysed, and that we know that what we get will be the right measure of the greatest part of the businessmen. On the other hand, by introducing the parliament of businessmen into every chamber that will normally be allocated to the environments, we allow that, in the right way, not only transparency and the public process, but what we didn't have today, today you had in chambers somewhere even three, four or five only members who were members of some Chamber of Commerce, above all at regional level. Do you really think that such a regional chamber has the power and authority to move things within its territorial organization, that it can give the right way and the right function in terms of economic organisation in a particular territory? The third law, which I will briefly explain, concerns the proposal for a law on the central record of temporary restrictions on legal persons registered in the Agency for Economic Registers. Many abuses in the previous period were in our system due to the lack of central records and the central list of penalties received by certain companies or people working in them, regardless of whether persons with executive functions or company founders. If someone gives you an administrative measure or a court gives you a sentence in which it is written that a particular person cannot conduct more business within companies at some time, you have so far been unable to implement it through the system of the Business Registers Agency, and that person could have already set up a new company the next day and proceed with his misdemeanours and continue with the abuses. In this way, the existence of a central unit is exactly what the courts in our previous period have done and what they do will be defined in one place and can be used. This will benefit us not only in improving the economic environment, in the transparency of procedures, and not only in terms of solving the accumulated problems of the past but it will be a good tool for state decisions as well, because we will be able to make much better decisions, above all, criminal policies, but in a much better way, the results of the work carried out by courts on the ground will be seen. I would certainly like to mention that in the realisation of this legal solution, but also in the financing of the costs borne by this law, the creation of a central register related to the violations helped us the Kingdom of Norway by signing an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway in 2013. The last two laws that I am going to unify, therefore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Action and Monetary Compensation, which citizens make in the privatisation process, refers to the process of shutting down the Privatisation Agency. So, we envisioned in our proposal after a lot of thinking, after a lot of time spent with experts, in which direction we should continue the privatisation process for those companies that have the potential to privatise, what we will do with the Agency and with a large number of employees, which after 31 December, therefore, almost a week, when social capital and formally does not exist in Serbia, what to do with all the other obligations that the Privatisation Agency carried in itself and we have proposed that the Ministry of Business take over the powers and jobs of the Privatisation Agency. One member of the Committee commented when we had on the Committee on Business Talks about this that, practically, the Ministry takes on a serious job and responsibility. I want to confirm that, in terms of better and more transparent behaviour, we are aware of what we are doing today as a minister, I am aware of what I am taking on myself, but this is the only way to bring processes to an end, to fulfill what we have negotiated with both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, but also to realise new jobs that can enable us to do much better work in the coming period. As regards the law that defines free action, it is merely a reference to the Law, i.e. amendments to the Privatisation Act, because it also mentions the Agency for Privatisation, Jurisdiction and all other necessary activities to be carried out in the process of the realisation of these transactions. I hope that, with our reasoned proposals and in the debate that we will have today, and probably tomorrow, we will have the opportunity to discuss these proposals, that we will be able to explain to you every member of our laws and that we will give you such answers that in the day to vote we will get your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43927	Thank you, Mr. Minister Sertic. The word has Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43928	Dear President, honourable MPs, I will explain to you the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific and Research Action. This law has been developed, i.e. this law has been done at the same time as working on a new strategy for the scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia. The goal of both documents is to schedule a new project cycle for the next five years. However, motivation for both is much deeper than the launch of competitions for research projects. Motivation is, above all, the preservation of human capacity that we think is very concentrated in the research community, regardless of what our research community is relatively small, slightly smaller than 13,000 people participate in scientific research projects. However, our research community has achieved very observed results and, if and as soon as we can boast in the previous project cycle, it is that the number of works published in prestigious international magazines has increased dramatically and that we can now praise that one of the objectives of the previous strategy of scientific and technological development, in the previous five years, has been achieved, i.e. that excellence at that level we expected. What we cannot be satisfied is the equipment of our laboratories, the equipment of scientific and research organisations, which we expected from the funds provided by the European Investment Bank's loan to be much better used and that already during this project cycle that is now being completed, we will be incomparably better equipped laboratories and will be on this equipment, that we will have many important scientific works both at national and regional level. However, public procurement is not realised at the pace we were expecting, so that the whole project cycle has been extended and this Bill proposal, in fact, we propose to extend this project cycle until 30 June 2016, so that the tenders that are scheduled to be called and that all researchers who have ordered equipment from the European Investment Bank's loan will arrive at our laboratories and that all with equal conditions go to a new research project cycle. This law should be resolved in a significantly better way and the use of the material resources available to us. We cannot boast of the amount of funds we have for direct material costs, both in the previous cycle and before that. Our goal is to use the direct material costs available to us more effectively over the next five years. To that end, this bill proposes several new programmes that will allow us to make more efficient use of the resources available to us. It enables the introduction of long-term research projects that are of national and strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia, in order to eventually, hopefully within the next two years, we are able to discuss and compete for the institutional financing of our scientific research organisations, thereby resolving the working and legal status of our researchers, in other words, in order to secure their salaries for which our researchers would work projects that are of national interest in their scientific and research organisations. What is the objective of this law can be summarised in several short themes, first of all, improving the quality of scientific research, better application of results, more efficient and efficient work of bodies that manage or make decisions regarding scientific and research work, such as the National Science Council, parent committees, to have a more efficient location of resources that we have and to provide the necessary elements for the construction of an innovation society. What is particularly important for this bill is the introduction of a Committee on Ethics in Science. So it's an institute that we haven't had before in the Law on Scientific Action and that should operate on the basis of the scientific and research code that it brings to this proposal the National Council for Science. The Ethics Committee has a wide range of activities and a wide scale of authority and methods of work, so they are authorized by the Ethics Committee to give public notices as the easiest measure, until they are proposed to lose scientific calling or to exclude themselves from funding for five years. The introduction of an Ethics Committee into science clearly defines what competences are in relation to unethical behaviour in science. So now we know exactly what should be the job of the National Council for Science, what is the work of an ethics committee that should be numbering 13 prominent members, and what is the job of the Ministry that ultimately has a duty to react on the basis of the proposal brought by the Science Committee. Another extremely important thing for this bill is the amendment of Article 98. A law establishing a minimum amount financing direct material costs for scientific research projects. What is the current practice and the current state of play where the biggest resources for scientific research projects are used only for wages and there is no money for direct material costs, above all there is no money for the work of young researchers. With these amendments and additions to the law, we should make it easier to involve young researchers, simpler and more transparent spending of money from the republican budget, and hopefully faster and easier to involve our researchers from the diaspora. I hope the National Assembly will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43929	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43930	Thank you very much. You've already heard the comments on the laws. I'll do it for a while, first I'll read 10 laws that haven't been mentioned so far and that we're adding to this impressive list. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on Use, Holding and Wearing of goods, the second is, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, the third is, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market of Capitals Act, the fourth is, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Corporate Taxation, the fifth is, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, the sixth is, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contribution of Social Insurance, the seventh is, the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic of Serbia, the sixth is the eighth, the proposal for the Law on the Obligation of Public Enterprise, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. As usual here is a large number of laws on relatively small number of changes in all these laws. Let me take my turn. So, draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. There is a goal, the basic reasons and the objective of amending these amendments to these laws, to comply with these provisions of the law in relation to the Arms and Ammunition Act, which have been in force since 5 March 2016, and secondly, to amend and specify the tax exemption for the use of motor vehicles, as well as to specify certain other provisions of this law. What's this about? First, let me say something about the tax on the use of motor vehicles. It is suggested that, besides parents, adoptors of multiplely distracted children who are in open-air care, who are directly concerned and entitled to release for one passenger vehicle under conditions, as well as parents. So it's just expanding the same right that's already been defined by law on those who are legally adopted, that is, taking care of those children. Secondly, it's a tax exemption for ambulances that are considered passenger vehicles, so relief for ambulances that are not passenger vehicles, which are purely ambulance vehicles that already exist. The tax exemption for ambulance vehicles considered to be passenger and subject to the bonds of health institutions shall be limited to cases where the founder or majority owner of those establishments is the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units, in other words, if one of these founders purchases a vehicle benefiting from the medical needs, and not otherwise a strict ambulance can be released from taxes and the last change in this domain is the termination of validity, i.e. the termination of the exemption due to change of status. It means that when an obligor is subject to a vehicle registration which he manages, for example, during the period of validity of a vehicle registration. car taxi ride or driver training. If it has exercised the right to reduce taxes during that period, if that status ceases, in other words, if it ceases to carry out the action which releases it, then it must return to the previous situation, i.e. it must pay a tax in proportion to the rest of the year in which the exemption was given. The tax on the use of the vessel, i.e. aircraft, is specified by the provisions of the law that the tax paid on the use of the vessel, i.e. aircraft which have not been provided in the competent authority with evidence of compliance with the conditions for tax exemption, shall no longer be considered as wrongly paid tax. So, when the debtor has exercised the right to tax exemption during the year for which the vessel or aircraft is registered, and the register ceases the basis for exemption then the tax shall be paid in proportion to the starting date of termination of the base for tax exemption in that year, and in the same way as in the previous article. And finally, perhaps the most important part of this law, it's an alignment, an object of taxation with the Arms and Ammunition Act. It is understood that gas sprays, electroshocks, as a type of personal security weapon, are exempt from the subject matter of taxation and another subject of taxation is introduced, i.e. that the personal security weapon for which it has been issued or the collection licence, and not only the armed sheet and the licence to be carried, that the tax per piece of registered weapon is paid on the basis of that authorisation. When the tax liability arises or ceases during the calendar year, the tax is re-payed in proportion to the period of the obligation. The second law on amendments to the Law refers to the tax procedure and to the tax administration. This law sets out the provisions of the laws aimed at creating conditions for the adequate application of the rules and setting those deadlines for the submission of electronic applications, i.e. the submission of tax returns by electronic means, thereby significantly reducing administration costs, increasing tax discipline and increasing the tax base. Our goal is for all of us to get past this as soon as possible. You saw this year that Duing's business report switching to part of the tax on electronic tax returns is one of the important contributions to improving Serbia's rating. In this amendment and supplementation of the law, amendments to the tax control procedure and to the increase in control, in particular, the efficiency of traffic control through fiscal registers and other controls carried out in accordance with Article 118(3) and Article 124(3). Tax code. Secondly, it is changing and I think it is improving a significant solution that concerns unregistered activity. So, when the tax authorities in the process check the unregistered activity, then they provide a warrant to pay the established tax liability within 15 days, which was obviously not paid because of the non-registration and, within an additional 30 days, oblige the unregistered operator to carry out the correct registration of that. Therefore, this provides one, to say the clearly defined path of legalisation, i.e. the registration of an unregistered user, and we hope that this will have positive effects, because it sends a signal to all that unregistered activity cannot be carried out and avoids tax obligations. Also, this law with amendments and additions sets out the jurisdiction of the tax inspector. It is very important to define this by means of a law that in the upcoming documents, i.e. the amendments provided for by the tax administration reform strategy and by the action plan for the transformation of the tax administration, which the government brought in the summer of this year, not to enter exactly on the date, it seems to me that on 1 August, the procedures and obligations of the tax inspectors are clearly defined, because we expect them to operate effectively in a new, better regulated environment. In addition, it is proposed that, under the accounting period for interest accounts, the period from the first day of the delay, i.e. the change in the amount of the debt, or the change in the rate, or the expiry of each calendar year. These provisions would apply from 1 January of the following year, i.e. 2016. Also, it is proposed to specify the limitation, i.e. it is proposed that from the Law on Obsolescence of the right to determine payments and refunds, they do not apply to contributions to compulsory social security, i.e. contributions to PIO, pension and disability insurance, health insurance and the National Employment Service. Therefore, there will be no exception here. And finally, it is understood what practically means a stalemate in the process, which is often followed by economic operators, these are bankruptcy proceedings that take many years and these are different administrative procedures that can take place under these procedures. It is proposed to amend the Law that the duration of the suspension of the law of the tax administration's right to determine and collect taxes from secondary tax issues is not counted in the absolute limitation period. Therefore, those delays in this process which are not caused by actions, i.e. the functioning of the tax administration, do not enter into the absolute limitation period. Otherwise, we come to a situation where the tax administration is waiting very long for other processes and then they have a short or inadequate deadline to do what is expected of them or the deadline is completely expired. So this, I think, seems to be significantly correcting one situation that has been shown in practice and which has non-trivial effects on tax revenues. A new dynamic of the transition to electronic submission of tax returns is specified. It is defined in the Law, I will only briefly tell you that it is expected that by the end of 2017, practically by 1 January 2018 all taxes will be in form of electronic registration. It is important that the deduction of the shift will be only until 1 March 2016, the other taxes will all be under way, or 2016, such as excise duties, or during 2017 such as flat-rate, absolute rights, inheritance tax, etc. The reason for the introduction of innovative deadlines is, above all, the technically limited possibilities of tax administration, the need to significantly expand and hardware capacity and to ensure a more high-quality, more efficient online tax control, with the tax administration likely to take a whole set of other information into the fiscalisation programme in direct communication with the central information system. Also, it is predicted that for those of our citizens who will not be able to go directly, or who think they will not be able to directly use the benefits of electronic registration to leave the possibility of being able to submit or not in electronic form, but also directly, means physically coming into the tax administration offices, or through mail, as has been the case so far. Most countries have that. My proposal, which has not been considered in the previous analysis, is to consider the possibility that these services are "purchasing" on the market and that they are being rejected from the basis for taxation, but on that afterwards. Perhaps one of the MPs will wish for such an amendment. It's often used in the world. We have very many students who could provide such services and thus get employment, and that people reject costs that are not significant. The law would enter into force eight days after its adoption, i.e. by the end of this year. The capital market law, this is a very specific law. He de facto only adapts the provisions of our law to the standard requirements of financial institutions. With us already in our capital market, they can act and the debt charters are issued by the IMF, the European Central Bank and the European Investment Bank. However, the largest financial organisations, in their size and presence in the capital markets, bear the "tripej", the "ray tripple" rating, the highest rating and could also assist the dinarisation and deepening of our market, which is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the AFC and other parts of the World Bank system, have not been able to participate in our market so far because the provisions of our law have limited the application of their standards on the market. These changes to the law only allow them to de facto, respecting their founding acts to come out on the market, Serbia's financial market, for example, with dinar bonds, long-term and other instruments, thus helping to improve our market without having to change their own, would be very unrealistic to change their own. So this is what financial markets everywhere in the world, primarily London, Frankfurt, New York and others have, and that is to allow them to use their standard documentation in accordance with their founding acts. Practically, what's this about? It is that they use their references in the way they are established and do not have to adapt it to local conditions, but to global conditions and that the prospectus for each paper is defined by their rules and therefore, I think we are making a small concession to get hopefully a beneficial presence of them on our financial market. The next law, which is partially amended, is the Law on corporate tax. Here, the aim of these amendments is to create conditions for more adequate application of the law, to specify certain standards, to meet standards with coherent solutions, to contain rules governing accounting, which are already in application, to enable the development of the market for problematic loans. It's the most important reason to do this. So the standard procedure for resolving the status of problematic loans is done, both by banks and by all participants in the process. The tax treatment of certain types of expenditure, e.g. a write-down of trustees' claims, is done when bankruptcy proceedings are initiated on the debtor. So this also helps our bankruptcy process and the resolution of problematic loans. Here's the de facto, it's about allowing banks to make their own problematic claims, not only recorded in their books, that's what they're doing today, so there's a reservation going on. If a claim is considered risky to you, then the bank is making a reservation, hiring its capital to cover it, rather than allowing these claims to be completely eliminated from the books, to be sold to someone, eliminated from the books, to be de facto written off. Therefore, this law is only in line with the suggestions of a working group that had domestic and international experts, it is proposed to impose these rules in order to enable the resolution of "empiles", which, as you know, exceed four billion in our system and block the normal functioning of the system, raise the costs of the system, raise interest margins and make it difficult to finance investments, create new jobs and anything that is related, but above all prevents the resolution of problematic loans. The next law is the Law on Income Tax. The aim of this law is to remove gray areas in the area of employment and the translation of gray economy, i.e. illegal transactions in legal flows through the promotion of legal employment. Here, as you know, we are, when this government is confirmed in this House, we have had a set of stimulating measures, not to repeat now at 65, 70 and 75% tax cuts and salary contributions, depending on the number of employees. This law briefly extends the validity of the stimulating measure until the end of 2017 on the one hand. On the other hand, it extends, since these stimulating measures have been focused on companies that employ more people, up to 100 people and more, here it expands to small businesses, micro-enterprises and already, at the level of two employees, as of 31 December 2017, can count on 75% of tax payments based on earnings for a newly employed person by the end of 2017. So they provide incentives and small and micro-enterprises that are a significant source of new employment. This will also reduce grey flows in the economy and increase real employment and all taxes and contributions. There's two more laws coming up, and then we're going to the projects. The mandatory social security law, it practically solves this same problem from the point of view, this was from the point of view of the tax, this is from the point of view of the contribution. Therefore, the same explanation applies, only now it relates to social security contributions, tax, social and employment. The deadlines are also extended. The law begins to apply on 1 January 2016. So the explanation is exactly the same. Because of the overall and balanced tax approach, we have to change it in two places in two laws. Finally, of this classic group of laws that we have put before you tonight and we expect both a fruitful debate and their adoption in the voting day, we have the Law on Administrative Taxes, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. This law sets out the harmonisation of taxi cases with files and actions which are within the jurisdiction of the authorities in which... the Republic of administrative fees, etc. First of all, taxes are changed here, by exempting taxis, i.e. not paying tax for the registration of newborn child’s residence and note in heading 11, Section A, tariffs, in that sense, tax is not paid on a certificate issued for the registration of a newborn child’s residence. These are the changes that de facto extend and bring all the laws in line so that the project "Baby Welcome to the World" will be implemented in full and would not encounter unbalanced treatment in individual laws. The last three laws in front of you are, firstly, the proposal for a law on the commitment of JP Serbiagas to the company NIS. This is about taking over old commitments that will be reprogrammed, partially paid this year, and the commitments reprogrammed to five equal wars, by May 2018, will be six months of wars. So the rest will be reprogrammed about 16% of this obligation. The total commitment is 196m euros, 23 billion dinars. The exact course and confiscation, or payment of commitments in this year, will be defined at the moment when you accept this and enter into force. Therefore, the course will be established on that day, and the rest of the debt will be allocated to five equal wars that will reach six months by May 2018. This is about old obligations. There are fully forgiven interest, under quote, and the rest of the debt will be resolved in this way. This is, among other things, a prerequisite for the normal work of Serbiagas and for the continuation of regular gas supply from NIS, i.e. from Gazprom. The previous law is a law relating to the practical ratification of the project to improve employment competitiveness in Serbia. It is a project by which the World Bank continues its support for innovation activities and improving the efficiency of the labour market. The project will be implemented by actively using funds to support the development of innovative activities and innovative companies and support better functioning of the labour market with the participation of the Republic of Serbia. Grace's period is 10 years, the duration of the loan is 25 years, the interest rate is Eurobor plus 0.73%. By the way, this previous loan will be no extra interest. It'll be on five equal wars without interest. Finally, the last loan, it is a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Sosite General Bank of Serbia" ad Belgrade, to meet the obligation of JP Serbiagas. It's a guarantee of a loan given under extremely favourable conditions. That's 2.09% interest, so less than 2.1%. That's an extremely favourable interest. This allows the state guarantee to finance its commitments in the most favourable way possible. You know yourself that if the interest on the market is at the level at which they are that the grant element in this loan is huge, but that is what the state is obliged to do, which is to provide an opportunity for commitments which otherwise cannot be avoided to be financed in the best and most favourable way, so that the obligation to service this loan, which is on Serbia's, Serbia's guarantee will be possible, only if Serbiagas is unable to serve this. This is briefly about these 10 laws that we put before you, although the number is large, the number of members that are changing and, I say, the dimension of intervention is limited, it is aimed at the level of individual laws, at cleaning the text of individual laws, at enabling the things that we have foreseen and the continuation of policies that have been defined in 2014 and the continuation of the fiscal consolidation process and the more efficient functioning of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43931	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43932	I would first like to ask for an explanation of why there are no two ministers here who have been announced to be and that they will explain two other draft laws, other than these 16 that we could hear, which is the point of the 69th agenda – the proposal for a law on renewal after the elemental and other accident, where the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Mihajlović, as well as the proposal for a law on the provisional regulation of how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service, and for that are certain Minister Antić, but also Minister Dusan Vujovic, Željko Sertic and Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43933	Mr. Djurisic, you know very well that the ministers are not set for individual laws, but the ministers in front of the government are set for this set of laws. Besides, as an MP, you know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43934	Don't tell the truth. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a government rapporteur shall be appointed for each item of the agenda. This government used to send that all ministers were authorized to all points of the agenda. We didn't get that notice. So, for the Rehabilitation Act after the elementary and second disasters, there is no authorised minister in front of the government, under number one. Under number two, none of the ministers spoke of the law, as well as of this way temporarily for the payment of fees for the Public Media Service. I listened for 52 minutes to what all three ministers said, but no one said a word about these two laws. I think we should stop until the Ministers come or some other minister tells us something...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43935	Mr. Djurishic, you know very well that what you're saying is not true. There are ministers. They can explain each other's laws at any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43936	I asked why they didn't explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43937	They can determine at what point they can explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43938	All right, Chairman. I would ask that you no longer spend these precious 20 minutes on not doing your part of the job. So, I have listened carefully to all these arguments, except for these two and the only law that we are prepared as the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS to support is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic and Administrative Taxes, where the proposal introduces the exemption from the tax for the registration of the newborn child's residence of 300 dinars. So that little relief for the citizens of Serbia is the only thing we can accept. Why do I say that? Because all these other laws put new costs on the back of citizens. So, the minister goes by, the story of income tax, doesn't mention that now income from real estate becomes part of the personal income tax and that it will be taxed at a rate of 20%. So that's one newspaper the minister didn't say a single word about. As the finance minister, in this case I think of him, has not said anything about the reasons why the deadlines for electronic tax returns are moving. He explained that the tax administration is not yet ready, that additional hardware investments, training, etc., etc. are needed, but to remind the ministers and citizens who are watching this, the finance minister, this present one here, seems to me, somewhere in October of last year, was with the same law in the Assembly and then asked for deadlines that amount, let's say, for excise duties as of 1 January 2016, to be paid by electronic tax returns, and now requires that it be moved by a year. Where's the explanation for why? Where's the Minister's responsibility for a job that hasn't been completed in a year and a few days since you've been here looking for that deadline? Before you were one genius who said somewhere in May 2016 that by October 2016 it would go electronically, and then you came here, a few days before that deadline, to say that it couldn't have been in four or five months, but we're going another year. Now you haven't made it in a year, let's go for another year, so we'll probably be another year, because someone's not gonna be ready, and nothing's gonna happen and nobody's gonna be responsible. This matter of responsibility is particularly important when we look at this debt takeover for "Srbigas". So, Serbian citizens will pay the debt for the "Serbian" that was created, as it was written, from 1 December 2011 to 1 March 2013, in six wars, a debt of 23 billion and some dinars, to surround 200m euros, to make it easier to understand. So, the entire amount spent less on pension payments in the budget, the government now honors the same leadership that it was when that debt was created, which was in the previous years when it was real some earlier debt, which is still there today, which behaves like there is no debt and it's all in the best order. The only thing that makes it easier for them is that oil today has been on record low since 2009 on here, and by the formula of how the price of gas counts, and the price of gas drops. It's the only expedient circumstance for them that this gas price is 50% less than a year ago today and then they'll probably say -- now we have great business results, because nobody's cut the price. The citizens who use gas are down 23%. Citizens who use remote heating, where gas is mostly used, are not reduced to dinars either. On the contrary, it's increased somewhere, and it's this government's policy. So, just a new impose, new costs, no relief, and that's why it's unacceptable for us. It's a public media fee. So, I watched the various statements of the Prime Minister, the current one, who said that the TV subscription would be lifted, that is, he said in May 2013 that it had been abolished, although it had been abolished only a year and a few days later. It is then said – no more subscription, but it will be from 1 January 2016. Now on January 1st, the house, there is at the door, there is, unfortunately, no New Year's presents for children employed by the state administration, because it has to be saved, but it doesn't matter, but now the government is coming with a proposal and says – temporary tax arrangements for public media services. Look at the wonders, this temporary arrangement predicts that the public service tax is now being paid with an electricity bill. I don't know if that sounds familiar? How was the subscription paid? With an electric energy bill. What's the difference? In name. It's not 250 dinars, it's 350 dinars, because the government predicted 150 dinars for 2016, we'll see further, but the problem is that this law places some key points of the public media service law out of force. So what's the board gonna do if he doesn't make a decision on the level of the tax? It's the legal obligation of the board of directors. Don't you have so much confidence in the board of directors to tell them – if this year and next year, four billion gets public service from the budget, the subscription you provided for 2016 from 500 dinars to 150 and you make that payment fee for the public media service, as you predicted, to be sent to citizens during January 12 payments and that they, at some point, every 15th in the month, pay it? What was the problem? You're not going to listen to the prime minister who said - only over the dead can the subscription come back. What is this now, if it's not going back to what was the end of June 2014, but only it was called different and it's going to be a slightly smaller amount next year. It's the best example of how this government is playing with citizens. He says we're going to raise pensions 1.25%, and then a tax of 150 dinars, and then there goes the whole increase. So there's no increase, and I'm not talking about how this whole idea actually came from the IMF, because the IMF seems to be more concerned about the social and payment power of citizens, so they said -- people, they can't pay that tax of 500 dinars, find another solution. And here's the government's solution. Proposal for a Law on Reconstruction after elementary and other disasters. I didn't hear anything about him, but what I wanted to ask. I wanted to ask when the budget was being discussed, but unfortunately I couldn't get a word in. The 2016 budget, which we adopted a week ago, set some amount, seems to me, 23 million for the Office for the Aid and Reconstruction of Flooding Areas. This office, as this law states, ceases to exist at the end of this year and we wanted to ask – why are these funds planned in the 2016 budget? This member of the law, among other things, says that the office, it is now called a little different, for managing public investments, will take over employees and all obligations and non-executed tasks of the Office for the Aid and Reconstruction of Flooding Areas. So, this law only lacks the name of the director of the Office of Mark Blagojevic, to put it here in the law and make it all right, because this law is written exclusively for one man, to find him a legal form to do business in the government. Now a little bit about the cooperative law. The Co-operation Act, the minister said 11 years of trying to revive cooperatives, as there were various proposals, failed, and then the government finally came with the bill, sent it to us late in the evening, and today, on Monday, 21st we should discuss it. So something that's been under discussion for a year, which has been going on for 11 years, the government is bringing to parliament an urgent procedure with the next explanation. Emergency adoption is required in the need of a single legal and institutional regulation of this area, thus enabling the rapid recovery of cooperatives and ensuring legal certainty and predictability of business, and also resolving the decades-long unresolved status of social property in cooperatives. So, where's the emergency? The deadline we are facing, what is so important to the ministers that neither the public nor the MPs were able to get to know this bill at least 15 days as prescribed by our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. We can't push everyone under an emergency procedure just because someone in the government thinks it can and has a majority to vote with. But all of this tells me one other thing, I think it's a message of this kind of debate that we're supposed to be having tonight where three ministers come in, and even they can't tell me about all the laws that are on the agenda, but they skip two, and we now have no idea how many MP groups 13 minutes, I as authorized 20 minutes to say something about all these laws, which is impossible. And I will not engage, I would be insecure to now speak to the Minister about the Law on Scientific and Research Activity for as little time as I have left, or to talk about privatising the Chamber Act and all the good wishes that the minister wrote there, but I am expressing serious doubt that what is related, let's say, to the chambers will come true, and in particular I think it is incorrect that this law be sent to the Assembly on December 18th. So we haven't had three days to look at him and get ready to discuss him. This is how the joined agenda points, which have nothing to do with each other, speak only one thing, so if that's all you've learned, you've learned a bad lesson. But on the other hand, that's good. That means you'll make the same mistakes, or you're making the same mistakes that we made. Oh, you will. And we need citizens to know what this is about and why this isn't the kind of debate we have here today. The government does all the work before an emergency election. So, the government has prepared to call the elections in April of next year, it does not want parliament to work from New Year's Eve until then, and it is a wish that by New Year's Eve these few days as far as we can do according to the Rules of Procedure, we can do all the work in order for the government to devote itself to the pre-election campaign. That's good, I'm happy because in those elections the government will be uneasyly surprised. When the results of the vote arrive, it will be an unpleasant surprise, because citizens see everything that happens, regardless of the intention to hide it, regardless of the asphyxiation of the free media, regardless of what the opposition parties are allowed to do, regardless of what happens to independent institutions, all of this is seen by the citizens. Even the government knows that and has changed tactics, until a few months ago, the government has been trying to expand its voter base. She had one progressive policy, a policy she was supposed to find new voters, but that's the end of it. The government has decided to defend both the million-and-a-half votes it considers necessary to win another amendment. And it might work, though I don't think it will. But it can only work once and it's the way to the end. So, from this place you can see the end of this government, and that's good, that citizens should also know that all of these marifettelus and all of this today, which we need to discuss in this way without the possibility of MPs getting to know each other properly, means an emergency procedure where there is no need but for the Assembly not to meet as of January 1st, so that perhaps it would not be able to establish the resignation of Minister Gasic, who is likely to do so before the New Year to listen to the prime minister, will not be called to parliament, so we won't be able to establish that resignation. So it's all one dance, which marks the last dance of this government, going into the dark past, never happened again, and the citizens should know that, so they should look forward to both New Year's and the holidays and elections that await us, because this kind of thing I believe will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43939	Thank you. Just a minute. Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43940	I won't comment on the last part of your political, I'll just talk about the few things you said. First, let me agree with your good wishes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43941	Don't, Minister, please, answer anything if the MP who asked you a question doesn't agree... (Marko Djurisic, from the site: Why is there no transmission to RTS? Don't shout, your rudeness has really crossed every possible line. So, first you pull out the card, you're not there, you're holding the card in your hands, and you're yelling like a nonexistent face in the O.R. Well, that's the highlight of the dance you were talking about. This is the highlight of your last dance, since you are not present, I can speak to a nonexistent MP. I don't know, I don't work on RTS. I don't have time, I'm working. Don't yell. I give you a warning about this behavior. That's enough of your rude behavior. Here, let Serbian citizens see how the opposition MP works. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: They can't see because there is no TV transmission. For 20 minutes, he talked about everything, just not the agenda points, and now he's yelling at the chairman. So if you only want to see yourself on TV, then you've missed your occupation because it's not an interest of MPs. Goran Ciric, therefore, you cannot answer to an MP who is so misbehaved by parliament, he does not respect you as a minister either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43942	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I think you should have given the Minister both one and the other and the third the right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43943	I don't want him to be humiliated. I want to protect parliament and ministers, because it's a humiliation for an MP to turn his back while he gives him an answer. I don't want him to be humiliated, because being a politician is a very nice thing in countries where everyone knows how to behave. You want to talk or you want to talk about another MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43944	Of course, I want to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43946	Mr. Djurisic talked about it, and I think you would help us with this debate if you would allow ministers to answer these questions that we have heard here. So we don't repeat the same questions and we don't run out of answers to those questions. Here, when we talk about the procedure and the way we're discussing 70 laws here, indeed everyone here in the hall is aware that in two days it's not possible to look at all the laws in detail and get involved and make a contribution to bringing good legal solutions that are good for the citizens of Serbia, but also for the whole of our country. We have, unfortunately, had the opportunity to look at it in the last year, when in a similar way and in an atmosphere like this, we have adopted the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, when most here adopted the Law, not critically when we have warned of one of the members that is adjudicating the top of the National Bank of Serbia, which was later declared unconstitutional. So we don't need such mistakes, and that's why we point to the way we work tonight. We do not need mistakes to adopt some laws that the President of the Republic of Serbia later returns to us, and they never come into the process later, as we do not need laws that the president also signed after our decisions, and later two days later doubt the constitutionality of such solutions. So it is an observation and it is a proposal that we simply respect both the Rules of Procedure and the way in which this assembly will pass the laws. On the Committee on Economic Affairs, we discussed many topics with the Minister of Industry. I think it's common in all these special laws that this country is going towards the centralised process. So, especially since 2000 and beyond, and here there are many representatives of municipalities and cities, people who have experience in local self-government and who disagree with all the proposals, but there are few voices that say that, and that is to say the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Chambers just confirms one of these views. I will start with the Law in Chambers of Commerce because I think it is an important topic which is not mentioned in the previous speech, in which we have proposals for amendments to one of the regional chambers of commerce, the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Nis, which have also been supported by some MPs of the position and opposition and who want to influence the maintenance of regional chambers of business in the statistical regions of Nis and Kragujevac. I think it is the right of all people living in Serbia to influence their business activities and make some kind of decisions. Because here we've been passing laws that remove regional public services, and we know that for every economic development, every other development needs to have media elites, we also need to have business elites, universities, and it's just a question of when we're going to start removing these things. So these are some of the important topics. And here is the Minister of Education that we're talking to here among all the other laws on promoting scientific institutions, but I think it's very important, you've had the opportunity to adopt along with the finance minister one of our amendments when we've adopted the budget, to solve something that's the beginning, which is the fact that a growing number of students in primary and secondary schools come hungry to schools and that we need to provide free snacks for all these students, because it's not possible to make scientific progress if you come to school with a hungry stomach. I think it's also important to say that the Privatisation Act is a symbol of what has been going on in the past four years of this ruling coalition. So last year we adopted the Privatisation Act, and then we heard about the announcement of great successes in managing the privatisation process and the final completion of the process where the deadline was given, and that is the end of this year to end privatisation and the sale of social capital. So, in this Privatisation Act, the Serbian government has practically shown that it has no real economic policy in the last three years. I'll tell you, we've been talking about this insufficient time we've had to analyse all these laws that the DS Parliament Club has worked hard these days, regardless of our objections, has worked hard and given 1000 amendments to which we're trying to correct what can be corrected in the proposals of these laws. But I'm going to draw your attention to you right now, turning to the fact that we've carefully read the proposed laws, let's say some of the illogicalities should also be mentioned in this debate. Let's say, when it is said that the privatisation process is not even a social capital that will be completed, which stems from Article 3 in which it is said – look at the ministers this, I think it is important to pay attention – the ministry responsible for business conducts and controls all privatisation procedures in the Republic of Serbia and carries out the work of intermediation in the sale of public and social capital and property in the privatisation process. So, if the privatisation process ends on 31 December 2015 in the Republic of Serbia, then what is the standard for selling social capital as of 1 February 2016. So that is the illogicality of this article. Then, the bill abounds with other misunderstandings, let's say inaccurate terms what discharge obligations are. Is there such a term as the discharge of obligations in bonds? We can talk about alignment or something, and a lot more. But there is also a fundamental remark that we talked about and the public in Serbia, especially farmers are very interested, we also had protests from farmers and discussed it on the Committee on Agriculture. Article 4 of this Act states that Article 12 is The law changes where it is predicted and which says - The buyer in terms of the provisions of this law can be a domestic or foreign legal or natural person, only a domestic legal or natural person can be a buyer of agricultural land. There have been objections to whether we are a state that can afford to sell agricultural land. So it's an unrenewable resource. The entire area of the Earth's globe is limited, less agricultural land is growing, more and less due to urban development, as well as pollution, and the world's population on Earth is growing geometrically, more and more food will be needed. Then the question arises here – whether a foreign legal person or a natural person can own the capital of a domestic legal person. So, sure, yeah. Domestic legal entities will have the right to purchase land, but foreigners and legal and legal persons have the right to form a domestic legal person, thereby having the right to buy land. All of this is doing the truth that we need as well as the public in Serbia. This also raises the question of how to transfer powers from the Privatisation Agency to the Ministry of Economy, where the second-degree appeal procedure and participants in the privatisation process are being abolished, refer to the management of the administrative dispute. This is where I draw attention to this very process of centralization. I think here knowing that the Privatisation Agency has not done an efficient job in the last year, for reasons of ineffectiveness of the previous director or current management, or some objective circumstances we can now hear about. It is because of this failure of the whole process that we are now coming to the end of one institution because it has failed and we are transferring the whole business to the Ministry of Economy. Whether the Ministry of Economy now has sufficient capacity to implement this procedure if 200 or 300 people in the Privatisation Agency could not have done so for this period of one year and with what capacity it will respond to all potential objections and what consequences the state may have in the case of disputes and possibly insufficient capacity and the State's primary defence itself, as Article 31 says that representation in the proceedings before courts, arbitration, administration authorities and other competent authorities in which the Privatisation Agency has the position of party or involvement, as well as in the tasks deployed in representation operations. Therefore, it could be concluded that this text of the law is certainly no better than the one that was worse than the previous Privatisation Act, and this shows the effects of the application of this law. As a consequence of this law, the Law on Privatisation is an amendment to the Law on Free Action and Monetary Compensation, and here will also raise the question of responsibilities and consequences and capacity in the ministry to trade in shares. How these consequences will affect the country. This is where I draw attention, of course, to root out that there are no such consequences for our budget, but I think it is very important to say because it is one of the serious challenges that the ministry is going to take over, and yet I am talking about a new process and a further process of centralisation in which we do not respect institutions. Instead of encouraging those failed institutions to be successful, we shut them down and take over the ministries themselves or the government itself for the most part of the responsibility. The Law on Public Enterprise Obligations of Serbiagas Novi Sad, according to the company Oil Industry Serbia ad Novi Sad, and when we talked about the budget, and here we heard here an analysis of the work, I think it is important to keep an eye on it, this is about 200m euros in Serbia's commitments towards NIS. I think that raises the question and possible objections and other creditors, not just NIS. This is a question, not a selective approach, a system approach, and a question of what consequences we can have as a state in this regard. That's one question, I see you're head-on, but I'll wait for an answer if the chairman allows us to. But I think it is also an important question, where there is justice for those citizens of Serbia, all the taxpayers in Serbia who do not use gas in any way. We have a large number of cities and municipalities that don't have heat, which have made the conversion to gas, from the mule to the gas, so they have their own costs that they will pay in a standard way, and on the other hand, we taxpayers from all over Serbia are in debt by subsidising only those who use and have the privilege of using gas at a given price. Some say the price is below the market and use the privilege, while all Serbian citizens subsidise the price. I think it's unfair. So that 200 million is exactly it. Two hundred million could be used and a threefold lower price was needed in order to provide free, snack, healthy snackes for all primary school students and high school students in Serbia in the budget. It's exactly the amount we've just heard about, the total amount of salary cuts and pension pensioners in the Republic of Serbia, and I think it's important that we get answers to some of these questions, because there's really no time to analyze all the laws, and I think these are laws that, above all, confirm that. Insufficient confidence in institutions, lack of confidence in people from local level, chambers of commerce, other institutions, privatisation agencies to run their institutions and run jobs. I think we are in danger of reaching the responsibility of only the Government, of individual ministers or of the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43947	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43948	I can't agree with your subject that you tried to get through all the laws, which is to centralize the system and not trust whether we have a problem with the institutions, that we have, but unfortunately the institutions were violated precisely in that period, while your party and your colleagues were leading this country in previous years. As for the very story of the Privatisation Agency, just a few data that will deny everything you've said. As a first question, the Privatisation Agency was one, so there was no more Privatisation Agency, so let's talk about centralizing a system now. So one Privatisation Agency does not complete the privatisation process 31. 12. In 2015, rather than shutting down social capital that would no longer exist in that form, and in that part it was important to do everything, which was possible and this job was huge, which was finished this year, the issue of enterprises in restructuring that we unfortunately had over 240, and the basic idea was to be only three to five enterprises. As far as the Agency itself is concerned, I will remind you that since 2007-2013, no publication has been made for privatisation, and that 178 calls for 100 companies have been published in this year alone. The failure, the fact that we have only a few privatisations carried out until the end, is the result of all these decades back, problems, and especially of putting under the rug of all problems in the last 15 years, because we have had the opportunity since 2000 to do much more, much easier. The company's debts were lower, however, due to the policy that was being conducted at the time due to the agreement at the local level, I have already mentioned that from three or five enterprises in restructuring, we have come to a sum of 240 companies that have then made a spiral of sinks and problems both with other companies and state and private and have come to almost no rescue for most of them. When we talk about the other laws you mentioned, and some MPs mentioned before you, just in two, three sentences, I want to say something. You know that the strategy for the development of the public information system is agreed, i.e. that the position of public-media services is regulated by a special law, so by 2016, this is transitional solutions and agreements with the IMF, but by estimating and the possibility of a good, efficient collection of funds from Serbian citizens, agreed that one part, a commitment to public services, pays from Serbia's budget, and the other through fees. Why is it proposed that only in this year, i.e. the following year, 12 months of validity of this regulation go through electricity only because the tax is extremely small of 150 dinars and that we are practically working on another model of fundraising, most of these pairs would go exactly in the way of collecting funds and providing funding, and in this way we regulate that all the funds that are collected in this way go directly and are dedicated to the work of the public service media. On the other hand, unfortunately after the catastrophic floods we had last year, the Serbian government immediately formed the Office for Reconstruction, which it received for its work from all relevant and international institutions, but also independent bodies within the Republic of Serbia, commendation for its work, precisely for the transparency and procedures of working in its behaviour, the spending of funds, to ensure that in the event of any future disaster, we have such a system of work and so well-organised assistance to Serbian citizens. It is proposed that the Office for Reconstruction be shut down, which was otherwise armed only until this period and the establishment of a public investment management office starting from 1 January 2016. So in this way, the government is most responsible for its citizens, but also for all donors who have provided means to help our citizens in that unfortunate part, when we had floods and all the results of all the floods in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43949	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43950	Allow me a few answers to the comments that have been made so far. I have to agree that I'm sorry that the transition to the electronic tax reporting system wasn't based on the dynamics we predicted, but I have no choice but to accept the tax administration's arguments. We brought the Tax Administration Development Strategy and the Action Plan to transform the tax administration only this summer. I think they expected it to be earlier, I think we expected that the restrictions in finding solutions for better and greater capacity not only for central computer capacities, but also for software to serve a large number of users at once, to allow online reporting of all transactions, especially those concerning fiscal cash registers, to enable the reporting of all elements and especially those that require a high level of security, such as excise transactions, turned out to be stronger, i.e. that restrictions are higher than they planned. I'd be glad they did it on time. We planned the effect of this introduction and in the report, that is, our plan to improve the Doing Business Report and the Report, that is, our plan to improve the Duing Business Report, and in all other things, what is happening is something that is not part of the plan, that is the part where we triple because of the lack of funds, and the inability to, in the territory of Serbia, in the way it works, with 182 offices, come up with solutions that are good. I think we'll find solutions, but this is another delay in order, and you're saying it right. It's not desirable, but it's not someone's direct error, it's the system's capacity to move to a world standard in managing the electronic reporting of all these instruments. We "think this will be the last delay", that these three taxes that will be made by the end of 2017, are relatively small taxes and relatively small effects have on total tax revenues, although for some of our citizens, they are very important. Another important thing is to try parallel with the development of this system, to develop a system of services that have a great impact on the quality of tax returns throughout the developed world, which is services, in providing tax services, and with us there is a huge potential, that young educated people with computers, help people register their taxes, that they can, at the cost of 4.5 euros per user, serve 20 or 30 users during the day, help people and even admit that cost to them, that, without the cost of taxpayers, provide everyone with a service and increase tax coverage, increase the transparency of the system, and we have in the tax administration data, about electronic vision, and that is the ultimate goal. I accept your criticism for this, because this is no one's direct error, but this is simply a restriction, a system to move on to a new world standard in this area. As for the second comment, that for the sake of taking over the "Serbiagas" obligations, these are not new impositions, not at all, that happened, that's the past, that's cleaning, the debts in the best possible way. Interests are all down, new interest will not be made, 196m euros will be taken on nominal terms and divided into six wars. So this debt is first accepted as debt in dinars, so on the day we adopt this and when it's done to determine what debt is in euros, or first we'll pay as much as we think one war is in dinars, the rest will be converted into euro. It's going to be dragged through the deficit at that point, that's what we've made ourselves good performances so far. So we're "leaving" through the deficit of 23.5 billion dinars. Given that we're at 40 today, that our ceiling that's been revised is 120, we can get that through the deficit and still stay below it. That's very important. I think we should link up the discussion we had about the budget and this. We'll get it back in five equal wars after six months for the next two and a half years. So it's a debt, I agree with you, the issue of equality, the excellent question, but that's the case for all the things that go into public debt. So it will be for this debt for military pensioners, so it will be for the debt for agriculture, where it turns out we have a huge number of people who have the right to subsidies, although I'm not sure of the economic integrity of that right, but we have this debt and always the citizens of Serbia, there is no one else, there is no one else to pay something that is a public debt. When the pension fund systematically achieves a deficit of 6.5 to 7% of the social product, there is no one but the people of this country to pay for it. That's why we're here discussing it, that's why we're talking about bringing our fiscal house in order to know, that we all know when someone asks for a subsidy, some help, some write-off of anything, or now paying back old debts, we're doing it publicly with your support, so that it's known that it's the cost of what we've been doing in the past, which is unsustainable. It's important that we no longer generate it, and it's important that we get out of here. So I wouldn't waste time on who's to blame. You know, you always know who's to blame, there's always someone in some place. It is much more important for me to realize that we are now below 40 billion deficits, and that by taking all these debts we will remain significantly above the 120 billion that we have been planning and even more significantly below the 191 billion that we had at the beginning of the year. So, I accept your criticism, accept your suggestions, but please don't make the impression that we can't pay for it. We can just keep pushing it away, but that debt won't go away. We took the gas, we spent the gas, the historic price is not subject to audit, everything we could do, we agreed on the best possible conditions, we wrote off all the interest, and the principal of that debt we have to pay. We could delay further, but this would make our relationship worse, make it worse for us to ensure that gas is sustained, that the Banat Palace is filled with other sources so that we have annual consumption in the reserve, in the world in which we live, is not with the worse security for continuous supply of the economy and citizens with natural gas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43951	Thank you. By the authorities, is anyone answering for a word? (No) We're moving on to the list. First MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43952	You have a good estimate – the first MP. Thank you for that compliment. I only have five minutes, so it's no time for courtoasia. Very interesting session, no transmission. The second RTS program is now going to some very important, some sort of show about hunting, fishing, fishing or something. It's probably more important than what we're doing here. We have a session with 73-74 agenda points, which goes in late hours, on Monday, everything is out of process and out of regulation. There's probably something important and of course there's something important. There are a lot of important things. Let's just say, I can commend two things. The fact that Minister Verbic, who escaped, accepted our initiative on academic integrity in some other way, under another name, but he installed it in amendments to the law and I can commend it on the unseen, since there was no time to read, but it is good that any law on cooperatives, which did not exist for very long, was very good. There's only two out of 73 points. What else do we have? The cooperative thing is good, but the state agricultural land thing is no good. It is the creation of special conditions for pets and tycoons to buy the state country so that in a few years they can sell it to foreigners at three times the price, it is clear to all in Serbia, what is the goal of it, it is like that attempted privileged sale of the Dedinian villas. That's the same thing, except this is ten or 100 times more expensive. The privatisation agency is being abolished. It's probably a strong incentive for the privatisation process. I ask Minister Sertic, if he is present in the O.R., how does he think that by abolishing the Agency he will have his goal of solving 115 companies by the end of the year, what did we pass the law on six months ago? "Srbijagas", a new 220m euros in two laws, tasked with "Srbigas". What's the good news? The good news is it's only 1% of Serbia's public debt. It's only 1% increase. The bad news is that Serbia is a hundred times more in charge than this 220 million for "Serbiagas". That's the concern of this government and this government for future generations. Anyone who is born in the next 20 years and who will not pay a birth tax, because it will be free, will carry 10,000 euros in generic debt with him as soon as he is born. Taxes, system tax laws are all such that taxes are raised, taxes are raised, but it's said to be a alignment. So now that the prices of state, or taxes and taxes are rising, it is now agreeing with the poor EU and it turns out that we are doing everything under the pressure of the EU, that there is nothing wrong, that they are putting pressure, that every alignment with their standards is increasingly suffocating Serbian citizens, and they are living ten times better than we are. A subscription to RTS, not to talk about what the Prime Minister said, which he swore would never be returned. Whoever trusts him, I can't help him, but the question is why is it brought in in such an unscrupulous way. The subscription, the TV subscription, existed all over the 1990s. Were the media free then, gentlemen of the former radicals, could we then say there was free information? Of course not. This means that the subscription itself does not guarantee any freedom. Freedom is created, kept, defended every day and it's not about the hocus-pocus, the mambo-jambo variants whether it's going to be 150, whether it's half of the subscription, and half of it I don't know where it's coming from, but because when it comes to the RTS subscription, RTS has to transfer that session, not to broadcast... Whoever needs Sabela, let him call me whenever he wants, I'm ready to talk to him about it, and even more so, I can show him, but for the end of this secret, urgent, nightly, half-nightly session, so the future of the state is not built, so neither does the personal future of serious people, let alone states.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43953	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43954	Dear People's MPs, to repeat, I don't know if I've been involved, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what you've heard is happening in that sentence when characterly small people want to gather themselves. I've heard a lot of things, but when someone talks about the cooperative, about the cooperatives, you know, the cooperative has a name for another. In the case of cooperatives, it didn't happen that you weren't registering land, it's an obligation until March 31st, not to hand over the production structure without being able to use incentives from the state. Instead of March 31st, you're registering July 2nd, but you have a problem. You don't register your land, you don't have a cooperative as a farm owner, you don't even have a land, you register July 2nd, you lease land on a set auction, where each other's competition represents the same man, so you compete with yourself, and in that way you enter into a contract on 7.11.2007, and you exercise the right to promote spring planting in 2007. The former prime ministers have a strange habit of declaring November for spring, and in July the month is equal in March and thus making 55,000 euros of undeserved profits, buying an apartment in Vračar, and as I come from the fields from the village of Novi Karlovci, my fellow farmer comes from a 500,000-euro apartment from Vračar. I didn't get an answer on the previous question -- how much in that wine plant did that winery make drops of wine, not a bottle, how many drops of wine did it make, so we know what the state gave 525,000 euros for it? There weren't three drops of honor, let alone three bottles. Let's move on, what about the land? The land was sold together with the company, and now we have to pay another 500,000 euros for not being able to restitution, but we have to pay cash to the previous owners, legal followers, and today the former prime ministers are talking about cooperatives and agricultural land, forgetting that they had a contract, a contract with the people in 2000. I'm a witness to that. The contract said that we would implement the restitution, and the prime minister, whom I voted for later, refused to vote, but fell very quickly, entered a plot that was intended for restitution, not that he wanted to restitution, but that he prevented the restitution by entering the property in a described manner. This land has been issued for 30 years and today it's about cooperatives and land stories by someone who took over 60 euros 52 hectares of land in the Indji municipality by the law of the championship in the way I've already described it. Otherwise, only those who have planted the vineyard, not those who will plant it, have the right to the championship. That was the Law on Agricultural Land that we'd be changing. Today they're saying we're gonna sell the land to the tycoons. It's not true, because of the viewers. The Law on Land, which will be on the agenda of this Assembly, will sell land to small agricultural holdings that have less than 30 hectares, which for three years must be registered agricultural holdings and which have to have a residence of three to five years depending on which amendment is adopted. It's those farmers, those associates who were kidnapped, who didn't get anything from the state, who in the 1990s put up with the burden of social economic pressures on our country, and they didn't buy anything, but that's why they bought those who, in that period, by smuggling cigarettes, oil, etc., crushed huge money on their coat of arms, they showed up when my colleague was a prime minister, so they bought 300,000 hectares of state, 200,000 acres of social property, which at the time of sale was turned into state, otherwise the state couldn't sell it, and 100,000 hectares of a cooperative country that was owned by joint peasants, and today someone tells us that we're going to sell the joint property, which is incorrect. It's been sold since 2000. Someone's talking about us selling the cooperative land to strangers. That's not true, it's not state. Three hundred thousand hectares were sold by 2010 for 50m euros. If they had given it with the right championship of cooperatives, which I'm talking about, the rent every year was 60 million, a billion and 800 would have been paid only by the rent, if they had given it with the right of the 30-year lease, which will be the case with agricultural land when we adopt the Agricultural Land Act. And another thing, what we got 50m euros for today would be worth three billion euros, as 300,000 hectares of the Vojvodina country today is worth three billion euros. Isn't that right, Mr. Sertice? They sold it for 50m euros, for 60 times the price. If they had leased it for 30 years, they would have a billion and 800m euros in rent, and the land would not be worth three billion, but in 15, 20 years it would have been worth six billion. That's a third of our debt. We could have paid it back by selling it to domestic cooperatives, domestic farmers, if we hadn't mutilated them, we'd taken away the cooperative land. From 1962 to 1968, that land was 19,000 hectares bought by cargo. Co-operatives lost it with wild, predatory privatisation during the time my fellow farmer was prime minister, Vlahovic was agriculture minister, Mr Cvetkovic was in charge of privatisation, and they will mention the latest official Sinisha Mali. They forgot the first three people to ask themselves the most. Those who have sold out everything to legalise it have written, with excessive early liberalisation, to destroy the rest of the farmers and the rest of the agricultural cooperatives. Excessive and premature liberalisation has cleared our food industry and agriculture, because all customs have fallen. Usually, liberalisation of such a species coincided with the year of EU accession. It just happened to us that it would be eight years before we got in. Who did they sign it for? Those friends were sold to their DS financial directors in Kovacica by 181 hectares of the country for three euros, 20 Eurocents, less than 20 euro-centi hectare, and sugar comes for eightm euros. The 20m-euro capital was estimated to have sold for three euros, and the one who bought it immediately next year raised eightm euros. How did he manage to raise eightm euros in credit to something worth three euros? The answer was quite clear. It was a huge pile of people, social capital. What was all ours was now all theirs and became all theirs. They also bought yachts, singers, etc., with capital, kidnapped from the poor, fired and underpaid. They talked about it today. Who entered into the SAA a provision that five years after the SAA came into force, so Lithuania saved us later, approved the SAA, ratified us in its parliament, it saved us? Who signed that in 2017 we are obliged to sell real estate to foreigners, including the country? Not us, those who rebel today, those who say the SAA is bad, those who say we'll sell land to foreigners. Why did they adopt that provision? For those who bought 300,000 hectares for 50m euros, those who took away from the poor, underpaid, those who wander empty pockets and empty stomachs while they bite lobsters. They've been taken from them. So that they could sell it, they did it. They wrote that it corresponds to those who had a country that bought 300,000 hectares for 50m euros, so they could resell, so today they could take three billion for what they paid 50m, that was their intention, and at the same time these same people were importers of everything and everything, so on. the slaughterhouse waste, etc. They emptied our farms, filled with oncology. Today they're talking about agriculture, today they're talking about land. Who trusts them now? Those who signed it all accuse us of their mistakes. Let them once forgive us at least what they have sinned. No, they don't want to. They'll still talk about how we'll sell strangers land, even though it was their intention, to cash in what was taken from the poor girl. The horse rides who has. Who's coming to buy me five acres from strangers? They'll come to buy from those who took 300,000 acres. They'll knock on the door and ask if they can do it. That's why I don't allow my fellow farmer here to confuse the honest farmers who live in the country, to bring confusion, to deceive them, to tell the truth, to say that instead of selling them land up to 20 hectares, which is the intention of this government, that they also buy something in this country at a full price, instead of those who bought big jobs at a miserable price, so once we give our farmer a chance to acquire something, to join in a cooperative, and so the united raise his head, raise our flag and raise our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43955	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43956	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, for who knows which time I will have to remind you of the main messages from the Prime Minister's exposé when establishing this government, which relate to reforms, more specifically education and science, as well as the very name of this chapter – education and science reforms. This is the only time I'm going to name the most important ones, of course, the ones relating to the subject of the law that I'm going to talk about here. Given the very scarce time available by our parliamentary group, we agreed that I was only talking about the law on amendments to the Law on Scientific Research. The prime minister's first message, one of the priorities of this government, will be science and technological development. Next important, in addition to the planned increase in investment in science, the government will establish a new model of funding science for the practice of other developed countries in the world, through a series of measures, such as amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Research. Just to remind you, this model involves the formation of a fund that both Slovenia and Croatia, even all countries in the environment, without talking about EU countries, which defines projects and calls for competition and real strategies. So, the role of the ministry separates completely from the role of the fund. And the last important message, since it is an extremely important developmental portfolio, regulation of these laws will be given priority in order to ensure continuity in funding scientific research projects, whose current cycle ends at the end of 2015. This last one's fine, with years off. With previous strategies and all decisions, this project cycle was to be completed in 2014, and the competition for the new project cycle was scheduled exactly 18 months ago, given the day when we will adopt this law. Now let's see what the government has, more specifically the Ministry has realized than these messages, which, frankly speaking, hardly anyone well-intentioned can accept and praise. Unfortunately, the effect of the Ministry, at all, on the plan of education of basic, medium, high, and also on the plan of science and technological development, was, I must say, disastrous, although I do not like that word. Let's go from the first promise, from the Prime Minister's first message. It's been said to be an increase. The planned increase in investment in science has not been achieved and it remains dramatically low, slightly above 0.3% of GDP. This isn't all they like to say on some commercial shows. Given that 10% of this budget is going to our EU quotation - Horizon 20-20, the situation is much worse than when the exposures are presented and adopted. Next thing. We remember all the Laws on wage cuts, austerity measures in public actions. There were shared opinions. We've always advocated the position that we shouldn't have cut salaries, but we've supported partial salary returns, profits from that level of reduction, and what do we say now? If science is a priority, if this portfolio is a priority, why aren't they partially returned and paid, i.e. earning employees in science, above all in institutes? At one point, it is said that the lack of funds, a large number of researchers, the same budget, led to the inability to implement the projects, resulting in organised protests by scientific workers. We've had it over and over again because of this reduction, and because of the fact that they're not being corrected. Contesting for a new project cycle, I'll repeat, 18 months late. I'm the head of one of the projects, and that's why I know what the contract is on the project. I know what's promised. It's all a period of government whose headquarters is SNS. Unfortunately, in either of these two governments, the minister was not from this party, so I cannot say anything about the SNS, in this matter, but only the competition has been called, and it is a condition for us to adopt these amendments to the law, as well as for the government to adopt strategies. The illustration, what is the priority of the Government of Science and Technological Development, is the fact that this law is being considered today under a set of 18 laws, as the last one in a series, which will dramatically reduce the possibility of discussing amendments that we have very carefully and with the idea of fixing the law. If we hear there are over 1,000 amendments, given the time limit, definitely, since this is the last law, our amendments won't be able to be presented, which is why we're very sorry. However, here the truth works, it should be said that it is not the government's fault for this delay, because the law only entered the procedure in November. I don't see any reason for that. Why did it take six months or nearly six months when the public discussion ended in the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts on May 25th, late May of this year? Finally, the strategies of the scientific and technological development of the Republic for the period 2016-2020, which are also a condition for the opening of competitions for the next project cycle, should be adopted at the government, and the draft has been prepared, I hope, prepared, and should point out that the public discussion was concluded only on December 1st, too, by a debate in SANU. Now something about the law in this little time that's left. The last law was passed in 2005 and the 2010 amended and proposed these changes, the latest ones, from this year, said problems had occurred during application, which is quite understandable due to the inaccuracies of certain provisions and had to be resolved in another way. In a brief analysis of this proposal, it should be acknowledged that some solutions are more precisely defined, such as the period of adoption of the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy, and in order to function the bodies and commissions, such as national councils, parent committees, but there are also problems. It is to be defined more precisely, but around the number of mandates it is possible for some people to be multiplier, so to speak, members of the national council and the parent board, because the system is reset to 2010. The establishment of an institute of national importance, which is also a better solution than in the previous law, meant uniting more institutes, togethering to form one. This time it's not a condition, but the second condition has been greatly tempered. Instead of 100 researchers in the proper calling, 50 research is now required. Also, the selection of directors and members of the Management Boards of the Institute and the elections in scientific titles has been resolved more precisely. However, when it comes to elections in scientific titles for initial titles, some things have been eliminated, some problems, but the conditions for the highest scientific calling have been incredibly tempered. These are senior scientific advice and scientific advisors. It's amazing that in addition to handling, instead of running master's work, doctoral dissertation, something else is now being put on. So it's completely thrown out for one calling and that it's also being thrown out instead of running projects now it's adding subprojects that make some sense to the second most calling. But with project tasks, and that's funny, if you introduce the concept of project tasks, so is there any participant in project realization not to work on a project task? That he doesn't have his project assignment? So the conditions for the election are incredibly tempered. Not to talk about being able to hold on to what's-his-name. the senior directors of the institute. Which means, starting in 2010, ama, as it was done, and I supported and discussed it on the board and in the Assembly, as for the rectors and deans, two career mandates. I have added here in the amendment - to the same institute, since I have the ability to change and change the institute and that there are competitions here. And finally, to commend this new ethic committee institute. It is indeed a European civilization achievement, which is all praise to the legislator. In the end, I say that, we're about 20, 19, we've changed something in the meantime, 19 or 20 amendments we've submitted, and if so, the position of our parliamentary group is that we will vote in favour of the law if our fundamental amendments are accepted. Given that a year and a half late, exactly 18 months later, this period, this project cycle, may, at the request of a number of institutes, universities and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, once again consider our position. Today, we have received a number of e-mails to support this bill, because the real adoption of this law and the government's strategy would allow this problem to be resolved and started in a new project cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43957	Thank you. Minister Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43958	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that, during the short-term absence from this Chamber, I have heard commendation for the introduction of the Ethics Committee into the law of the opposition leaders. Thank you, I think it's one of the things that pleases all of us. There are common goals that we all see, Professor Stojadinovic, the honourable MP, which concerns greater investment in scientific research work and concerning the creation, i.e. the establishment of an agency that would professionally deal with scientific research projects, their evaluations and competitions. We don't give up on that goal. What's very important is that we face a reality that's not a reality since yesterday but since the day before yesterday, I'd say so. In 2012, there was one thing that was very difficult, a damage that was difficult to bring back. That year, in fact, it was decided that direct material costs for research were financed from loans and that they did not go directly from the republican budget. It seemed like a good solution not to be seen in the budget itself, and to be taken out of credit. But put it back, convince the finance minister, above all, that the place is in the budget, and not in that part of the loan is quite difficult. We are now doing everything in our power to keep most of the material costs where it belongs, therefore, in a budget intended for scientific research projects, and to reduce the share of the loan. What is an objective circumstance regarding the same loan that we took in 2010 is that many of the public procurements that we have taken over at the time to get new equipment and equip scientific research laboratories are not realised to this day, that is to say, these very days we call the last tenders. As a result, we did not actually have the opportunity to objectively compare the achievements of scientists on different projects. We had a situation that researchers among researchers had achieved incomparably better results than those who needed laboratory equipment. In such conditions no evaluation of projects was taken into account, no retegorisation of researchers was taken into account. It was therefore necessary to extend the project cycle. I hope that now that we realize these latest tenders, at least in 2016, we will bring researchers into less the same fair position before the new project cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43959	The word has a folk letter from Grozdan Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43960	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers with his fellow Members and fellow MPs, I would especially like to welcome Mr Verbic and I believe that he has invested his personal position and professionalism as the legislator of the law in these amendments and additions. This set of laws will of course support PUPS, so I'll point out next. Article 9 of the current law amends the provision in paragraph 3 which provides for the time to which the scientific and technological development strategy is to be adopted. Instead of the current formulation that it is brought for a period of at least five years, it is proposed to be brought for a period of at least five years and no more than ten years. Article 10 provides for changes related to programmes of various scientific research for which amendments to the law will provide for different lengths of life, their implementation and financing. So far, these programs have been implemented exclusively for a period of five years. Article 13 provides for a reduction of the number of members of the National Council from 17 to 14. Compared to the current solutions, the right to propose a member by diaspora scientists is lifted, and the number of members elected by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has been reduced from 5 to 3. A provision has been added whereby the proposings must make at least three times the number of proposals to be selected. As a reason for the resolution, an irregular session attendance has been added, which we consider quite justified and quite realistic. Article 14 adds new competences to the National Council and to prepare and deliver to the Ministry a report on the results achieved on the overall implementation of the strategy, to submit initiatives for its amendment, to propose a list of candidates for the parent scientific committees and to give a preliminary opinion on the instruments on the selection of evaluation and financing of research programmes. This leads to a better application of all these proposed amendments and additions to the law. Article 27 provides for the new competence of the Ministry of Education and Science to educate the Commission to set out the proposal for an annual list of categories of magazines. The Commission will be appointed by the minister on a proposal from both parent and scientific committees. A chapter dealing with the work of the institute of national importance provides for more precise and demanding conditions under which existing institutes will acquire such status, as well as in the section for the accreditation of institutes of national importance. In addition to Article 56a, it shall specify which powers and duties the director of the institute has. In Article 62, by adding new few views, there is a detailed determination that all data, in which way they are kept in the register in scientific research organisations. In Article 70, changes concerning researcher, trainee and researcher status have been made. For researchers, trainees will be required to complete master studies as a condition. Up until now, the request was for the person to just be registered to them, and there would be only one choice in calling it for a three-year period, without the right to re-election. Researchers will be required to have a doctorate and have at least one published scientific paper, and only one choice over a four-year period will be possible. In Article 88, a more comprehensive process of confiscation of the scientific or research calling. In particular, I would like to point out the addition of Articles 88 and 88b, which envision the establishment of a Committee on Ethics in Science, which would be involved in monitoring the implementation of the Code of Conduct in Scientific Research. I personally believe that the ethics at the head of honesty, which you yourself, Mr. Minister, have in your professional work. I wish you every happiness to succeed financially, to have support from the government and from other resolution ministries that need help and your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43961	Thank you. Balša Bozovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43962	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although this session is taking place, and there is no direct transmission to Serbia's Radio-Television, which, of course, is paid by Serbian citizens, and that is somewhere predetermined by these laws, we do not think it is a good thing that MPs of the ruling majority are very easy to deny that they are talking about these laws and today the empty Hall of the Assembly in these nine hours and 22 minutes, is talking about how much they are actually also a little interested in everything that will strengthen the citizens in 2016. We were really trying to listen to a record-breaking minister who explained a dozen laws for every few sentences each, trying to read during the night all the things that have come to you in the last few days, these 16 laws today in the best or most qualitative way, let's tell the citizens what that really means. Although we don't know when this transmission will be, and when the video will appear on RTS, although he may be able to be at two in the morning and at three in the morning, I think it's important that as opposition MPs, we do everything, which is why the citizens put us in these places and to protect their interest with dignity, because we believe that tomorrow their quality of life depends on these laws. We are very surprised by the haste of 16 laws that need to be led by a detailed and very detailed debate. We don't understand why some ministers aren't here, because often ministers don't respond to our criticism as opposition, and it does everything we can to make this planned cover-up work tonight at some late hours, to draw attention to what it is in 2016 and what citizens will feel in 2016. In addition, the anxiety among some MPs is the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43963	MP, so you've all taken us all out, and now to say a little bit about the agenda points, I'd like to beg you, as you've said for the voter's sake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43964	These 16 laws speak of many things, only two laws stipulate that Serbian citizens pay 200m euros in "Srbigas". The second law, which also concerns "Serbigas", allows the failed public enterprise to be additionally in charge of paying Serbian citizens again. You keep going towards all those facts we said a few weeks ago of 13 billion euros in debt that you will reach by the end of next year. We're not going to figure out how it's possible that this public debt that's going to grow up together with both the principal and the interest. As it is possible that these 13 billion were not used for what you said, the return of unfavourable loans, and also the principal and interest, I repeat the growth, which is paid by Serbian citizens. On January 1, 2016, you promised a better life. You, gentlemen ministers, have stood up for the exposé of Serbian Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Minister Vujovic may be more than all of you stayed together, and on January 1, 2016 is now in a few days. Will 1 January 2016 be a better life and will the citizens of Serbia feel it? Teachers humiliated by wage cuts were humiliated even more when they received 50 euros in assistance from the government of the Republic of Serbia. With those 50 euros, they will again help pay for "Srbigas", because the 200m euros someone has to pay and you know it very well. You know very well when professors with 50 euros help those in their company give 500 euros per employee for the New Year. Well, happy New Year's, too, dear ministers. Because citizens obviously have nothing to hope for in this new one, unlike some who prepare for elections, but with different types of bribery they count on some votes from different public enterprises. That's where it's supposed to be saved in failed public enterprises, not in professors, teachers, on people in health care, not on pensioners. Two hundred million euros for "Srbigas", so much is saved on the salaries and pensions you have reduced this year. We have a problem here, and we told you this because you, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, gave birth to the people. They don't know if they're buying bread or medicine in the morning. They don't know if school will be safer or if it won't be safer. They don't know if they or members of their families will be able to cure themselves unless, God forbid, someone gets sick. There's that 200 million euros. You have done everything that on their backs the bad results of your directors who often have a few tens of thousands of euros in receipts to cover up, on their backs and you know it very well, Mr. Vujovic, and it's nothing funny. Believe me, in 2016 with a set of financial, tax laws, with all those announcements and for 2017 they bring nothing good in Serbia. Serbia's radio-television, or public service, which does not carry this session, although you yourself know that they are obliged to do so, is being introduced a tax on Public Service which you, as a minister, one, and the other, and all of you, along with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, promised to the citizens not to pay. That's another extra charge. When we talk about only one of these 16 laws, which is the Law on corporate tax, a deduction tax is introduced at 20% on all services provided in Serbia. Is it true or isn't it? Yes, it's true. They collect all services from abroad in Serbia. Is that true or not true? Of course it is. With this Serbia, as you know, becomes an uncompetitive state for foreign service providers. And you haven't been able to do anything about it either. Your reforms. Because your reforms with these 16 laws mean only one thing - to put your hands in your pocket when it comes to family budgets and trying to justify our bad results by getting that money out of the citizens and putting it where the hole is huge. Only one example is "Srbigas". We talked about "Petrochemicals", we talked about some other companies -- 200 million or damage when it comes to the 20% deduction tax, which will be created for the Serbian economy, for the citizens of Serbia, for their budget, because they will have to pay these 20% more. That's enough money to hire every young man in Serbia who's on the desk, every young man, 56% of unemployed young people are in Serbia today. It takes less than 100m euros for anyone who has completed higher, higher, master, and doctoral studies to work in Serbia, so that these young people don't have to flee from Serbia, so they don't have to flee from this city, that these families stay together, that they can survive and that they can tie their future to this city or to one of the municipalities or to some of the cities in Serbia, but not. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Serbia commits itself firmly that where they are employed, the party army, that these companies will have to receive funding from subsidies, that these companies will continue to live, but only at the expense of those people who have worked their whole lives, such as pensioners, at the heart of those who educate children, who treat our citizens and at the expense of those young people who cannot get to work. You know that very well. You yourself know that, when it comes to this tax I mentioned earlier, Serbia has not concluded with the United States a double tax avoidance agreement. Is that right? Yes, it is. After this tax and the introduction of this tax, the increase will stimulate some American companies to come to Serbia? That's exactly the tax? That, unlike all tax experts in Serbia, is your only claim, Mr Vujovicu. Serbia can thus be forgiven, for example by Google and some other companies, just like this. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing only new borrowings, because there is no solution to how to get out of this crisis. The government of the Republic of Serbia predicts that what someone has done with hard work has acquired a procuring process and spent where it is least important. The government of the Republic of Serbia has no answer to the question whether Serbian citizens will ever, with such a set-up and political support, live better, and you yourself know that you promised in 2013, that you talked about 2014, so we waited for you in 2015 to see what would happen, and then on January 1, 2016, here, that is, in a few days, and then the citizens will enter that 1 January into a new year with a better life, they will feel that they have a lot more to spend with all the collection and heating and electricity and basic life supplies and VAT and with all those taxes on property and all those other taxes and taxes that you now put in these 16 laws and think that you will make them a better life? Please don't. In 2016, citizens can expect only one thing, and these are perpetrators, private perpetrators on their apartments, on the doorsteps of their houses and their apartments, to be seized by property, for those who do not have to pay taxes, and that is only in 2016 that many people will welcome. These perpetrators, as you know, are rewarded by this government, they have for everything and every job that they do, and by business means confiscation of other people's assets, even rewards, these people are rewarded, not those who fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Only one of the situations still in the capital today is catastrophic, for 530,000 citizens, half a million people, the benefits that certain municipalities in Belgrade have given them have been lifted. At every step, they are punished, fired by those who are not members of the SNS. In Pancheva, the attorney's office contacted me today personally, as a MP, with information that people are given SNS access to sign, and unless signed, the contract is not extended. Is this the struggle with the surplus employees in the public sector? Did people deserve it, Mr Vujovic, to break their spine and break their dignity? This government of the Republic of Serbia cannot survive another single day, you have lost credibility with your 250 buses across Serbia full of party activists, you cannot do absolutely anything and of your economic reforms still on paper supported by all your foreign partners, you will come to the conclusion that there will be hunger in Serbia, and that some who are very close to this government will end up with a lot of money in their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43965	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic, so will the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43966	Article 106(1), Madam President. You can only talk about the point of the agenda that we're running a search, because in 17 minutes we've heard about everything, just not the points of the search. Indeed, when I listen to some MPs as a previous esteemed colleague, it simply comes to me to hand over part of the time of the SNS to him, because the more he says, the more it increases the government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic. Look, it's so much against common sense, when someone whose party and he personally owed Belgrade, while leading it to a 22% deficit, is now talking to the government of the Republic of Serbia who is struggling to reduce the deficit and who has reduced the deficit this year, and who says -- well, this is a bad government. No, you gentlemen are bad. That the one who contributed to the loss of jobs in our country of 400,000 people, in four years, the government of Balša Bozovic lost 13% of the people at work, is now worried about the insidious fate of young people, young people who are given a chance at investment. I ask you, gentlemen ministers, who made the debt in "Serbiagas"? I will tell you – made by Balša Bozovic and the Democratic Party. And now, this budget and this government of the Republic of Serbia must pay the debt made by DS and Balsa Bozovic, the debt must return, regardless of who made it, made by Balsa Bozovic and DS. And now they say, that we have to pay back their debts, they tell us, shame on you, whatever you pay back those debts. Yeah, we're paying those debts back. They're your debts, but we'll pay them back, too. Brooke and shame on what you're saying. After all, as you say, your reforms. Yes, our reforms, but with our 30-seat reforms, we've made progress on the Duing Business List, but that's where you don't wonder, that's where the World Bank is asking, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43967	Time, thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. One moment, one moment, one moment. Do you want an explanation, a vote? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. No, thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43968	Thank you. Article 107. The dignity of the President of the National Assembly has been compromised, for the simple reason that the previous speaker spoke of me personally, as someone who, on the one hand, had a government and I suppose the leader of the government and on the other hand worked various crimes that he mentioned earlier, which you had not responded to. On the one hand, if I hadn't been to the executive office for a single day, when it comes to power, on the one hand, unlike my colleague from across the street that was in Vranjska Banja and how well he was known... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43969	Thank you, MP. We're not having such a discussion. Do you want to vote? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. ) (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Do you feel that by speaking to you and speaking about your political party, someone has hurt Parliament's dignity? (Balša Bozovic, from town: About me personally. No, that's your question, you just think it hurt Parliament's dignity. So that I can, in general, make such rules. (Balša Bozovic, from town: That's right. I thank you. He's jealous of the vote. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43970	Madam President, Article 108(1) has been injured. Rules of Procedure, at no time did I speak of private life. Do we want to talk about private life? About Strahinjica Bana, about cafes, about apartments, about buildings? I don't want to. I don't want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43971	Ambassador, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43972	But I just want to finish one sentence. First, it's a lie, and you should have interrupted the previous speaker when he said that the Public Service is not transferring this session, we see working and responsible people from RTS, who are now behind the cameras, or are now in the direction, who are transferring this session in a delayed period, but also today are working and staying much longer than colleagues from across the street. I see some have already left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43973	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43974	And the other thing, that the additional imposition I don't know by which mathematics, is an additional charge of 150 dinars of subscription compared to 500 dinars that were during the former regime and Mr. Balša Bozovic, who washes his hands from his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43975	Thanks for not spreading the story. So, Article 108. I didn't want to get involved in it, but delayed transmissions have been over the last ten years as long as you want. So it's nothing new, but I still understand that someone thinks it's a light motive to observe, in other Serbian citizens when they're looking, they won't know what it's about, why someone's saying there's no transmission, when there's transmission. Well, yeah, totally vague. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43976	Thank you very much for starting with your last thought. So, first of all, I'm once again surprised by the team that you're able to completely reverse the essence. The essence of the last instrument is 20% of the income tax per deduction, I will read to you what it says in the article of the Law, only the introductory paragraph and the point that you have quoted: “If the international agreement on the avoidance of double taxation is not otherwise arranged, the income tax per deduction of 20% is accounted for and paid for by income obtained by an unresident legal person” means, not a Serbian, but a non-resident legal person, “from a resident legal person based” and now point 5) of which we are talking about today: “the fees from services provided, or used, or which will be provided or used on the territory of the Republic”. In other words, this is a tax in favour of Serbian citizens who will be paid by visas and other providers of these services from Europe, but where agreements exist this does not apply. So, in America, it means in some other countries. Why do you protect other people's foreign, foreign, non-resident persons who will pay taxes in favour of Serbian citizens after deduction, means it is held back, if there is an agreement then it will be able to do something else, it is completely unclear to me. So this is income for the Republic of Serbia, this is revenue for the Serbian budget, this is income for the citizens of Serbia, not the cost, as you represent it. So, quite the contrary, this is an element of income not paid by Serbian citizens and Serbian residents, but by foreigners who, for example, charge credit card services in Serbia. We say from this profit we will keep 20% if there is an agreement, which is why I told you this is a contribution in favour of the agreement, because then these companies will be interested in having a double tax avoidance agreement with Serbia, not what you said. So it's all the opposite. Secondly, I'd like you to guide me into this world of yours where we can avoid budgets, get into economic finance, avoid financial commitments. Here you are now suggesting that the 200 million we owe before, you suggest we don't pay, please explain to me how it's possible? I'm going to take your advice, and not to undermine this country's position, everything we've done so far, to bring Serbia's natural gas supply down, to bring down all of our, the world's reputation and everything else, just explain it to me. So that's what you're saying, that's so naive as to say that on Sunday we're going straight on Friday afternoon to another weekend for those who don't like to work. It has absolutely nothing to do with the real world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43977	The word is Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43978	The respected chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, serious laws are on the agenda today, all equally important for both the economy and the country's economic system and for Serbia's financial functioning. I will discuss two draft laws today, a proposal for a law on cooperatives and a proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. In Serbia, the chamber system has a tradition of more than 150 years and, for all this time, through numerous trials, the chamber system in Serbia has changed and adapted to the market economy system. What we know and what is necessary to bear in mind is that in the Serbian economy there are really many problems, and the chambers of commerce are precisely the ones that are most able to quickly identify the problem and quickly propose a solution to this problem. In addition, chambers of commerce also have the capacity to implement a strategy to provide certain forms of support to business operators. The state is obliged to create the most favourable business environment, to listen to the demands of the economy and to have the economy at its service, and it can do so through the commercial chambers that are everywhere in the world of the relationship between the state and between the businessmen. Through the chamber, businessmen give guidance to the government in which direction cuts and reforms should be made in order to improve the business environment, and I believe that no serious businessman in Serbia expects anything else from the state to create a good business environment. The proposal for a law on chambers of commerce that we are discussing today is a brand-new and modern bill, which will certainly remove all the problems identified in the application of the applicable law, which will definitely affect further transformation and reform of the chamber system in Serbia. The most important thing is that both this transformation and reforming of the chamber system are in favour of the economy, because commercial chambers exist also because of the economy. It is certainly one of the most important newspapers that is introduced by this law, the establishment of a new way of organising chambers with mandatory membership, which is a newspaper now regarding this law. Otherwise, such a system of mandatory membership has already existed and thus the role of chambers in both the country and abroad will be much more serious and more pronounced in terms of power, in terms of quality, influence, etc. What this law affirms, which is the main and most comprehensive task of the chamber, is to represent and protect the interests of businesses and businessmen, which means all those activities that are aimed at creating a business-friendly environment, promoting the economy in and out of the country, educational activities and the like, and which again implies the active involvement of all members of the Chamber of Commerce in terms of attitudes, remarks, suggestions and thus united demands of the economy come to those who create politics and those who make decisions. In this way, the Chamber of Commerce becomes a serious partner to the government, which is actually the goal. Since Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is an institution with a long tradition, there are enough professional and professional people in Serbia and indeed enough trust for business people. I believe that this institution will also strengthen and take a place in the economic life it belongs to immediately after the start of this new law. When it comes to cooperative law, I would like to say what you, Mr Sertic, have said that the applicable Cooperative Act has never given us the right effects and that both cooperatives and cooperatives in Serbia are exposed to problems of different types that burden the business of cooperatives, which can be removed by a new modern legal framework and by implementing reforms in the cooperative sector in line with a modern, market, economic and financial movement in Europe and the world when the area of cooperatives is at stake. Problems such as unresolved property-legislative relations, the legal status of cooperative property, then, the need to harmonise domestic legislation with EU legislation in the fields of cooperatives and cooperatives, the lack of a system or mechanism to attract capital to cooperatives, one non-domestic business so far, the economic crisis, are all the problems that led to the need to approach cooperative reform as a whole to the example of developed countries, which would revive the importance of cooperatives and create conditions for cooperatives to remain an important factor for the development of domestic economy again, as it used to be. Historically, agricultural cooperatives were the first to expand in the region, and today they are the most important and numerous forms of organisation, when it comes to cooperatives, of about 4,000 cooperatives as many as there are registered in Serbia, the largest number of agricultural cooperatives. The problem of property-legal relations, which I have already pointed out was indeed a problem, will be resolved by this law and that is what is good. However, agricultural cooperatives should not only be viewed with a view to what they have in terms of capacity in terms of land, mechanism, real estate, but should be watched from the point of view of how much these cooperatives are able to organise production, to provide plasma, because at this moment and the situation in which our agriculture is, for our farmers, and most importantly. The state, starting with the law, must make every effort to bring farming cooperatives back to life and be involved in all segments of agrarian development. As for housing cooperatives, they also have a tradition in Serbian cooperatives. At one time, they played a highly recognizable role in meeting housing needs. That's why I'd like to comment on a few provisions regarding housing cooperatives. The draft law provides for cooperatives to be established by the role of cooperatives or without roles, to be supported by membership, and given that housing cooperatives and youth cooperatives and cooperatives, in particular social cooperatives, are not founded for the sake of acquisition and distribution of profits, but for the purpose of meeting certain needs of cooperatives, I believe that these cooperatives should be included in those that can be established without roles, because their business is characterized primarily by rules of reciprocity, solidarity, settlement of real costs, and any excess revenue in relation to expenditure is directed for the purposes for which cooperatives and established. Also, when it comes to managing authorities, given that working conditions in the case of cooperatives have been significantly changed in recent years and that, for technical and practical reasons above all, it is necessary to provide for the law of a bulky managing body, it is already aware of some more appropriate and acceptable number of members, because of e.g. The quorum or to provide room for holding meetings and so on, 100 members are really too many. It is particularly important for the SPS, and I would also like to point out that I should like to commend, which is what the bill provides for the establishment of social cooperatives, which are important in terms of support and assistance for socially vulnerable categories of citizens. It is important to include local self-governments in this type of support and help with the establishment of these cooperatives, if there is a possibility of facilitating and shortening registration procedures and such. All these laws that are on the agenda today in the voting day of the SPS parliamentary group will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43979	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Government, we have submitted the MPs of the New Party, I see that Minister Sertic listens most carefully, roundly 100 amendments to the laws that are being proposed tonight in our National Assembly by Ministers Sertic, Vujovic and Verbic, and should also be Minister Tasovac, who is not here. To me, it is an immediate question for the ministers who are here -- why is Minister Tasovac, whose one bill of law is here, not here tonight to defend his bill, gentlemen? Minister Sertic, we have submitted 51 amendments to your bill, as you can see, most of all, and that is the order. I think that's our practice here, too. We always have great objections and criticism about your legislative projects, Minister Sertic, this time special to the Chamber of Commerce Act. But I suggest that in the amendment debate we discuss a member by member, amendment by amendment, Minister Sertic. Minister Vujovic, on your legislative projects tonight, 27 amendments, and it's a similar thing to Mr Sertic, I suggest we take care of ourselves for the day after tomorrow, when, I think, there will be an amendment debate and we will also go, member by member, Minister Vujovic, amendment by amendment. On the draft law tabled by Minister Tasovac and which was to defend his law, we submitted 12 amendments. This is a law that temporarily regulates how to charge a fee for the Public Media Service from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, with 150 dinars being offered. The minister's not here. It is another testimony to me, dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and guests and guests from the government, about a kind of wandering Minister Tasovac, recklessness, absence of serious planning. I'm seriously saying this, especially when we're talking about Minister Tasovac being here and the Prime Minister, they're saying there's not even going to be a subscription. That meant there wouldn't be a tax, so there was a tax of 500 dinars, so now it's 150 dinars. We are, gentlemen, in early August 2014, when we discussed the so-called The reform media laws offered Minister Tasovac the most serious proposal for public services to be financed from the budget. This is the strongest guarantee of public service independence. When we make the law, gentlemen, that a certain percentage goes to public services, what will that editor-in-chief worry about influences when he knows that certain budget money comes to him annually, gentlemen? Minister Tasovac refused, refused to accept, and he is not here tonight to explain his wandering, gentlemen. Minister Verbić, we have submitted 10 amendments to the draft law that you have sent to the People's Assembly procedure and I must say here, first and foremost to my fellow Members of Parliament that after 15 months Minister Verbic has persistently committed the struggle of our MPs to the opposition, the struggle for academic integrity, he finally accepted our idea that a plagiarographer be legally installed, and I will show here through Article 35. how did Mr Verbic do this, when he wrote down in his proposal for the law the following -- scientific, or investigative calling can be taken away, honored gentlemen, in what situation? If it is established that the scientific works on which the candidate is elected are plagiarized. Since 24 September 2014, here, at the beginning of each session of our National Assembly, I have advocated that the Law on Higher Education lays down the principle of academic integrity. The most serious violation of academic honesty is plagiarism. The most serious violation of academic honesty is plagiarism. Fifteen months of this fight, gentlemen, and I can finally do it tonight, 2200 hours, Mrs. Gojkovic, exactly, to say that we won this fight. Your first step, Minister Verbich, I think it should be about consistency, to say tonight here right now -- we accepted your idea, we don't want to be plagiarists. It's your idea, we put it in the law, and then, Minister Verbic, step two, to look around, so let's see if the mayor or one minister goes first on that plagiarist, Mr. Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43981	Thank you. Just to inform you, the government is proposing. We learned that after a year and a half, and these are authorised representatives who can explain and participate in the debate on all points of the agenda. That's bad for six, isn't it, Professor? I pray for a weak six, a little more and we'll understand each other. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43982	Madam President, the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 1. I won't ask the Assembly to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but now in five minutes we have heard the speech of the previous speaker, the distinguished colleague, how many times they have proposed certain laws, from which date they proposed, and famous victories, I don't know what, and I say parliamentaryism and dialogue, and for dialogue it takes two sides, then it's the victory of two sides, not just one. We heard how many amendments were proposed. We have also heard some threats – you will only see that we have come to these amendments. I don't mean threats in the original sense, but if some five minutes didn't say anything about the proposed laws, and there's too much material maybe, then it's more of a problem for someone who's used such an argument. On the other hand, I'd like Mr. Tasovac, please give him a picture of himself in natural size, to give to the previous speaker, because I see that Mr. Tasovac misses him so much. ... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43983	I don't know how to put a Tasovite in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43984	Hard on the Rules of Procedure, but please, and I end with this, that you really warn the speakers to talk about the points of the agenda. We have a lot of laws on the agenda, important ones. Citizens expect us to debate laws. They expect us to debate the essentials, not the lack of Mr. Tasovac, not how many times someone has proposed the law or how many amendments he has proposed. You know, we have all this in the open parliament, we can see it all in the open parliament. One click and we'll be informed of the entire speech of the previous speaker, and now I would ask that we take care of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43985	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43986	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to dedicate atrocity to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific and Research Action, which I find particularly interesting, and I believe that a significant part of my presentation will be devoted to other laws that are on the agenda. So I would take the opportunity to welcome the minister and congratulate you on more than a very good bill, which, for my part, I support for more reasons. I'm going to try to point out only some aspects I personally welcome and consider very good. The first thing, because it is intended to adopt a development strategy in a scientific and technical domain that will be based precisely on the solutions proposed by this law, and in the period that we were able to hear today, and also to see from the reasons, which means 10 years from today, which is very important and is a good basis for long-term planning in this sphere. Secondly, it solves a significant problem in practice, which is the problem of forming a national advice on scientific and technological development. Everything that has been a problem in the functioning of this extremely important body, I believe, will be adequately solved through these methods that are foreseen by the bill. Third thing, forming an institute of national importance for the Republic. So, also an extremely important question and fact something that could not have been brought into practice based on those solutions that were provided for by the law that was still in force, which, again, I am undermining, I am expressing confidence will be adequately resolved when this law on amendments and additions and we adopt. Furthermore, the issue of the number of members, the composition of the parent committees, is also a very important issue. A much better solution to choice in scientific and research knowledge, as well as for the first time envisaged adoption of sublegal acts dealing with very important matters, including the evaluation of the research work achieved, even the appropriate quantification. Finally, not least, it enables uninterrupted funding of all those projects that are still in place, and this will be ensured until the time when a new competition is expected, i.e. the provision of new projects for all participants in this area. I would take the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to draw your attention to a few amendments that have come from the SNS MPs and which are aimed at further strengthening those intensities to ensure adequate protection of personality data, but also to ensure, through some of our contributions, increased transparency, both in terms of data on scientific and research workers, both in terms of their own references and in terms of funding and the total resources provided for this area. We find that very important. In accordance with one and another aspect, which I have mentioned, we have also proposed the introduction of researcher identification numbers, and we have proposed new methods to further improve the famous modernization we have been dealing with for a very long time and I believe we are making very good progress, and it involves using the Ministry's Internet site, and for a transparent display of all this data that I have been talking about now, as well as showing these data in machine-processing format that may allow appropriate applications to be formed tomorrow, and in accordance with this moment, this time, which will be used for the adequate processing of these particularly important data. In a few minutes, I will also refer to the comments we heard today, and they are related to this bill. So I certainly agree with the assessment of those concerns regarding the projected level of funding for science, as well as the salary of the people involved in this sphere. It's not really a place for this hall today and for this part of the agenda. The Science and Research Act does not deal with these matters, so in a few cases we definitely missed the topic with these issues, but I certainly welcome everyone's care and I believe that it is largely honest that this area is being settled in the right way. What I must mention, in turn, is no objection to insufficiently professionally correct conditions for choice in scientific calling. In particular, where I quote, it rules out master's thesis and doctoral dissertation as one of the conditions. If the bill is carefully read, it is mentioned only in one place. So it's specifically about choosing to call a senior scientific associate. Anyone who in practice encountered this problem can understand and can only welcome this proposed solution for a very logical reason. This applies to those scientific and research workers who spent their working hours at the institutes. People who didn't spend their working hours in class, logically, at least not normally, were in a position to do the master's or doctoral work, and that, in my humble opinion, was one of the missing details in those laws that dealt with this problem and which were valid until today. I welcome this correction, as on the other hand I welcome the fact that for the most significant calling, the calling of a scientific advisor, this condition is still present. I remind you, through the amendments to the Law on Higher Education, we have opened the door for people who do scientific research in institutes to participate in these jobs and in our higher school institutions. As for the other comments relating to this particular law, I don't know, I'm going to share with you an impression that I've been pulling since the budget debate, which we had here, which I unfortunately further confirmed today, which concerns some MPs who have spoken about this and some other laws. I was reminded by this atmosphere of the words of the famous Professor Raymond Aaron who taught at Sorbonne and the words that he described his vision of the situation during the so-called so-called Sorbonne. student protests in 1968. Now I'm not going to quote, for now, those words, because I don't want to theoretically go into jeopardizing anyone's feelings, unless the distinguished colleagues insist on hearing those words. But they're very vivid and very picturesquely depicting the atmosphere that we have in this room, here's a few days, and days, and it seems to me, we're going to have them going on this week. What I have to point out is that whenever we talked about it, I, with some regret, remember the fact that someone who's a lecturer in college seems chronic, constant and persistently not familiar with the content of the Higher Education Act that he's so engaged in. I have mentioned here many times a member of the 55th law, and unfortunately, I can only conclude that we haven't mastered it yet, and today I am also getting the assurance that the same people seem not even familiar with the content of the Scientific Research Act. If they had read his article in 88, we wouldn't be talking about these plagiarograms today, or whatever. One minister's wandering quotes, subscriptions and fees concerning another law, as well as the question of a press service fee, it's very simple, I'll give him one sentence, because it's so serious, it's so hard to answer. One who does not understand the difference between the subscription and the fee, the mechanisms that introduce the amounts and the ways in which they are restricted, really hard to justify calling the MP, ladies and gentlemen. I can understand it with someone who's a citizen, because they're not informed enough about the difference even though it's the result of an insufficient engagement on my part to explain it, but someone who's a MP about it votes and pleads not to understand it, the elemental thing is, it's really hard to explain. As for those 200 million for "Serbiagas", very interestingly, my first association that this number almost hit a tight spot with the damage that we had on only one issue, on one single issue, as regards the famous issue of military pensions. If someone finds himself worth enough to calculate, it doesn't take more than five minutes, ladies and gentlemen, for what's the direct damage, literally burned the money of the citizens of this country, in just that big mistake, this amount will come to 200 million. Everything we hear about what could have been done differently could have been applied to this particular example, which is literally burned money, thrown away, and of which no use is found. While here, on the other hand, I remind you, I am talking about a system that is of particular social interest that is worth saving because it provides important resources for our citizens. If I were to go back to the law that I started with, I consider it a very good continuation of those joint efforts that we all make here, along with the government, but I would estimate to all other society actors, to set up a system in which education will be appreciated and be, hand-in-hand with science, research, and development, engine, the driver of this society and this country that will ensure that things are different, that as people we set ourselves up differently and instead of chronic taping in place and thinking about that someone else, in particular state, should provide happiness for each individual, to feel, as agile, capable, motivated to do creative things, to attract, create something new, and to believe, which is something that should be our main goal to all of us wherever we come from. Once again, support for the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43987	Thank you, Doctor Orlic. (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: Replica. On what basis? (Ninoslav Stojadinovic, from the place: he mentioned part of my discussion. ) Please don't Vice President, you know very well that there is no possibility, because each of the MPs could say of all 250 MPs, someone might say so my discussion in one word, or sentences, mentioned, or... (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the post: This is well-intentioned. Professor, I have to be like others, you know, very well, you're vice president, as with other MPs, so you have to be mentioned in a negative context in order to have a chance of replication. So the Rules of Procedure won't allow me any possibility that you can get a replica. (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: I have more time. Your time, if you have, you'll take advantage. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43988	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have heard a lot about everything, not only about the laws that are given in this set today relating to both finance and economy, but also to the higher education sector, which clearly shows the essence of the functioning of this government, because it believes that only by connecting science and economy and finance essentially Serbia can make a new value in the future, that young people really have a perspective, that in Serbia they are opening new jobs, and ultimately, as a result of all this, Serbia simply has no problem with the budget. What we have left in the amanet until 2012, simply these last three years we have had to solve how we had to, first by consolidation of public finances, and then by working in such a way as to pass laws that need to reform the complete system of functioning, both in technical terms and in the social economic sense. When we have on the Committee on Economy one set of laws that says, completely new laws, the Law on Co-operation, the Law on Chambers of Commerce, but also the part relating to the completion of the privatisation process and the two other laws that are related to it, then it shows essentially that economic reforms are really rapidly resolved, that this government headed by Alexander Vukic and his Government is now simply taking great steps that certain sectors even certain political entities in society. They cannot follow and this is precisely what this debate shows that they are unable to follow every law and to talk about certain laws that are on the agenda today, then resort to such exhibitions where they simply try to scare the people with cheap political pants by reflecting on a certain domestic budget, the question of "Srbigas" or certain issues of administrative taxis. To return to the Co-operation Act, the cooperative system was defined by law first in 1989, then in 1996, federal law and in 1998, the Republic law. So since 1998, no government has been able to pass a new Co-operation Act until this government of Mr. Alexander Vukic. The economy has changed since 1998 to today several times, it has changed its strategy and has come to pass one such law, in which if you do some statistics, you will see that there are registered 4117 cooperatives, 2238 of which are active as legal entities. If we're talking about farming cooperatives, there are 2691, and it's 1466 active and it's questionable. Then, when we talk about student, youth cooperatives, there are 686, and registered alliances, so cooperative alliances are 40, while only 33 are active. So this essentially shows what this government and this Ministry of Economy faced at a time when it really wanted to bring in a new modern Cooperative Law, where there was practically a lot to be removed, all that showed that the entire cooperative system in Serbia was completely destroyed. I can tell you he didn't even exist. When you come to the fact that you have to write a new law, then you start from certain grounds that you need to comply with the existing functioning of other laws, especially when we're talking about laws that were passed by then, when we're talking about reform laws that the Ministry of Economy has already passed. Then you need to bring in a new model and a new concept of cooperativeism that needs to function, and above all when it comes to agriculture, construction, youth entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship. It means that you need to pass one roof law, and right now this is a roof law that later, as we heard on the Committee of Ministers, will be diluted in all segments. What's important to say is that now the possibilities for establishing cooperatives are much easier than they used to be, now it's enough for five natural persons to form one cooperative. It is also important to say that when we talk about cooperative alliances, there are at least 100 companies, businesses that are supposed to participate in this. The authority governed by this law in general is, in addition to defining the concept of cooperative, functioning of establishment, the system of governance of cooperatives itself, including registration, but so-called cooperative audit, as well as certain criminal provisions. We had some experience in the past, and with failed construction cooperatives and with failed agricultural cooperatives, so through this roof law, all segments of this section should in a certain way be brought forward, that today, when it starts working on topics, there are simply no obstacles to them being brought to life. What's important is to say, as the main question why I think all previous governments didn't have the courage to pass this law is actually the property of these cooperatives themselves. And what stands as one of the fact that there are 50,000 acres practically within the jurisdiction of certain cooperatives that I've talked about, that exist on paper, and many of them don't work. When we talk about the issue of co-operation in Serbia in the end, we should say in these ways that it is the conclusion that this practically encourages cooperative society, that a new business environment is being opened, that together with the Agricultural Land Act that we will talk about tomorrow. We are simply coming into a situation that Serbia really needs to try in one place to centralise agricultural production in general and a ransom that will be able to go to certain markets tomorrow where it will indeed find its placement safely. When we talk about the Chamber of Commerce Act, I think today there have been as many members of the board as there are other Members who are not members of the board, because they wanted to hear practically the concept that the Ministry of Economy gave when we talk about the Chamber Law. The new chamber system is essentially given through this legislative proposal based on the model of Austrian chambers because they have great results. Why? Austria is a country that is approximately per capita and way of economy like Serbia, but what it has succeeded in this is that in this way the arrangement of the chamber system in general a network of business companies, in a certain way achieves more competitiveness, increases exports and thus becomes a very interesting country for all sides of direct investment and, therefore, as such, is applied in this law. What is very important is that centralisation, by this system in the chamber that is proposed here, implies the possibility and as a permanent solution, a reference to this so-called economic diplomacy. So, the existence of essentially and our chambers abroad that are in a certain way more abolished through the Foreign Ministry where we have economical so-called advisers or attachés who simply haven't done anything, have had no results, but simply through a chamber of commerce that will have an important institution here in the Republic of Serbia, you have your branches that will be within the big cities of Serbia, but will also be in countries with which we have extremely good economic co-operation, which is an important condition for increasing exports. With the increase in exports, of course, you have a larger inflow in the budget, a decrease in costs on the other hand, you fully consolidate public finances. Of course, we can't do all this without the Ministry of Education and Science, because if we don't learn all the time, we simply can't follow major technological changes, and economic sciences are essentially the social sciences that simply have to follow technical sciences and technological innovations, and in fact, the Chamber of Commerce in collaboration with universities is essentially the only possibility that this economic momentum can actually live. What is important is to say that the Chamber of Commerce is becoming practically a major headquarters in a society with which a single full dialogue should be established. Serbia's parliament here, through a certain Economic Cocus, co-operation with NAED and other economic operators, tried in an undefined way to initiate the co-operation with the economy. However, the Chamber of Commerce is a Chamber of Commerce, one network of all business operators in society, and it should be the one that will give its opinions on the laws that will initiate certain legal solutions in order to solve problems in business activities, that it simply gives views on the effects of certain laws that this Parliament adopts and therefore such an institution should truly live in its full capacity. Today we still had the opportunity to hear a certain draft law on central records and temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered in the APR, which is one law that I think everyone has long waited for, especially when we're talking about bankruptcy. This is one centralised database in which all those who simply have certain criminal proceedings or procedures relating to criminal acts or to administrative proceedings, where owners of certain small and medium-sized enterprises who have entered certain criminal activities in the past with other economic operators and thus tried to enforce the law and commit certain fraud. So far, there has been no such centralized database, nor has there been any way through the courts to find a list of all these faces in one place. That's why such a bill of law is especially going, and these trusted jobs are a good way to essentially control everything that represents big problems and who does everything with laws in the area of business. The effects of this law are even measurable. They showed that on 30 October 2014, there are 48,482 economic operators who have been blocked for more than 60 days, and even 120 days, and have shown that it is much easier, say, to work under a blockade through some third parties and have simply come into a situation that they have pulled into problems and their customers and suppliers and thus have really caused some problems in the financing and functioning of the economic system itself. This requires certain financial resources, both the Government and the Ministry of Economy, through an agreement with the Kingdom of Norway, with which it will simply provide for the application of such a law as of 1 June 2016. As for the Law of Amendments and Privatisation Supplements. The law on changes and additions relating to free actions and money from Serbian citizens since privatisation, which is practically the conclusion of the privatisation process, since January 1st, there will be no more social property. You heard from Minister Sertic that what is taking responsibility in shutting down the Agency for Privatisation, practically within the responsibility of the Ministry and the minister himself, is another great burden not only of the minister and of this government, but since the government has committed itself to the agreement with the EU, that it will end the privatisation process, sure to keep its promise and its given word. This fundamental government shows its European and strategic goal and pathways and this through all these legal solutions we will have in the future to resolve the issue of privatisation. Of course, there will be a lot of problems, issues of 17 strategically important enterprises for the Republic of Serbia will be addressed, but it is obvious that the Ministry of Economy can deal with such major challenges. Of course, in the voting day and as SNS MPs, but I mean the coalition, and perhaps some MPs of the opposition, will consider accepting certain legislative proposals. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43989	Dear Vice President, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers and other members of the government. In my presentation, I will refer to one of the legislative proposals that I consider to be of the utmost importance in this united debate, which is the proposal for a law on cooperatives. Co-operation in Serbia has a great tradition which is witnessed by the fact that our first cooperative law was passed more than a century ago. Unfortunately, in our country, over time and under the fact that various unfavourable, social and economic factors, the cooperative institution, were suppressed on the very margins of economic and social life, bearing witness to the detail that the legal solutions that were made more than two decades ago were in force in this area, even though it was an institution that was of great importance earlier, especially in our agricultural production. Therefore, the new Cooperative Law, which we are discussing, is an attempt to create a quality, modern framework for the establishment and operation of cooperatives, and I think it has succeeded. First, at the very beginning of this law, a very important newspaper was made, which is that, apart from the current forms of cooperatives for certain business and social activities, agricultural, crafts, student and other cooperatives, the legal possibility of establishing a new type of cooperative, which is social cooperatives, is now envisaged. They would carry out a variety of forms of work, and their main goal would be to work towards the social inclusion of members of various social groups. The recognition of social cooperatives, as the new type of cooperatives on one side, will create the possibility that members of different socially endangered social groups, on the one hand, will be encouraged to be active, to engage in society, to commit within their capabilities, and on the other hand, they will be able to reach certain own incomes and thus facilitate their own material position. In the section relating to the establishment of cooperatives, a reduction in the minimum number of natural persons needed for the establishment of a cooperative, from the earlier 10 to the five, which I think is a good solution that should give an additional impulse for cooperative association, especially in our villages where there is an increasingly less working-age population. The rules laying down the founding assembly and the contents of the founding act and the cooperative rules are now significantly more detailed in the new legal text, which will help to avoid all disputes on the internal organisation of the cooperative itself as much as possible. The new law contains earlier bodies of cooperative management. The Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director, but certain repairs of the earlier legal text have been made here. Thus, the law now lays down the necessary majority of votes to make the most important decisions in the domain of the cooperative assembly, for status changes, changes in assets, changes in the founding act and in the rules in charge and initiating the liquidation process. It is predicted that all cooperatives must have a three-member board of directors, which has so far not been an obligation in smaller cooperatives of up to 20 members, and I believe that the good provisions in the proposed members 42, 46 and 50, which strengthen the responsibility of members of the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director, are for any damage they would have caused by their work in accordance with the bonding law, as well as the provisions of Article 56, which introduces the responsibility of the cooperatives in cases where they would have misused a cooperative for fraud or if they used cooperative property as their own. The new law introduces some completely new institutes such as the possibility to launch forced liquidation on the basis of a decision by a court or another state and in other circumstances which are tax-listed in Article 63. It's a bill of law. A significant newspaper is also the introduction of the possibility of forming a complex cooperative as a type of integration of two or more cooperatives, which would be regulated by separate rules and should certainly be welcomed as a possibility to perform together in private life, which improves the chance of better results towards the market and the survival of cooperatives. Finally, and the provisions relating to the revision process are now significantly more detailed and more rigorous rules are foreseen for these control procedures. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS Parliamentary Group, sees the Cooperative Law proposal as a very good legal solution aimed at introducing order in this area after decades of desolation and stagnation. Quality solutions have been proposed, and we hope that the new law will lay a stable basis for the development of cooperative society, which would have a positive impact on our economic life as well. The return of cooperatives, primarily agricultural cooperatives, is a brand for Serbia, because it will suppress the influence of shoppers and buyers who took from farmers a wake-up call for a very difficult economic situation, because our farmers and producers, because of their poor position, were forced to sell them at the last unfavourable prices. Therefore, the PUPS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will give its support for this legislative proposal, as well as for the other draft laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43990	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43991	I do not belong to that type of people who deceive citizens and deal with marketing tricks, and TV subscription will be cancelled, Deputy Prime Minister Vukic said in May 2013. Today, we are again discussing the introduction of a subscription which is no longer called that, but is a tax, with the same system of payment as we had before, without any explanation why the subscription has been suspended, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, if the proposal for a bill on the temporary adjustment of the fee for public media services, since 1 January 2016, our legal system will have two valid and mutually opposed laws governing the same matter, and in the opposite way. Moreover, the law that you are proposing today is contradictory, as it states that the level of the public media service fee, their total amount and scale are determined in accordance with the law governing public media service, means the Public Media Service Act, in order to later determine that the amount of the tax will be 150 dinars, and thus determined that the Public Service Act will not actually be respected. At the moment we speak and celebrate the accession of Serbia's EU accession progress, it is very important to remind ourselves that in the latest progress report, it has been found that progress is missing and that Serbia is asked to properly implement the laws, new media laws adopted last year. My question to you is therefore, which law will apply from 1 January 2016, since in the legal system we will have two laws that are completely opposed and completely different from the same matter, which is why you decided to rule the board of directors, except we assume that because of the statement of one man who owns life and death seems to be here in Serbia, so it decides everything, including public service fees? So what law will apply in the Republic of Serbia, and why did you not comply with the laws you propose in the Assembly today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43992	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic, head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43993	Member 107, Mr. Chairman. These are small hours, and it is that we entered now at 13 o'clock debate, but you had to react to the words of counterpart Marjanovic, that one man in Serbia is the owner of life and death. Those are big words, Mr. Becic. Those are words that can make a normal man in Serbia, scare, worry. Was it Mrs. Marjanovic's wish or just political hatred? Anyway, whatever it was, we didn't hear the solution, we didn't hear the proposal, except someone juggling whether something earlier was called a subscription, and now it's called a tax. Let's juggle a little bit, and how much of that subscription was in your time, and how much tax at this time? So how can 150 dinars be worse than 500 dinars? So how can 150 dinars be more than 500 dinars? What's this about, Mr. Becic? What masters? Is it an auto projection from a time when one man was everything, and the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister, and the President of the Assembly, everything, and the model, and the negotiator, everything, fear and trembling, but it never occurred to us to say that he was a master of life and death. Do you know what time that statement reminds you of? I think that's the kind of words we should all avoid in the National Assembly, and if someone really wants to use them in the lack of arguments, in the absence of a proposal, I think it's at least necessary to intervene and warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43994	I thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear that word, sentence. I don't usually listen when someone's talking about themselves, so I haven't heard that line. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. No, thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43995	Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 103 because the previous discussion was all but the right to verbally indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly, but was a replica to the presentation of a colleague for whom the previous speaker could not ask for a word, because you interpret the Rules of Procedure as you interpret, that the replica can only be obtained if the name and last name is mentioned, and not if someone misread what the Rules of Procedure unfortunately acknowledges. And then this whole discussion today, instead of the right to replication, is used to indicate the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so that even in advance, it is said that no statement will be required, which in itself speaks of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure in Rule 103, which is quite long, if you do not know all the views I can read to you. He also speaks of what happens if the MP abuses his right to indicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure and who take the chair in that case. You refuse to respect the Rules of Procedure and have different arches in treating MPs from your party and MPs of the opposition. Of course, this is not your first time, I do not believe that you will stop, but it is my obligation that whenever I am in a position to draw attention to your behaviour, to ask for the conduct of the Rules of Procedure, that the MP who has misused the report on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or his MP group, be punished by two minutes from the time of discussion, will be taken away from this parliamentary group in order for this debate to be governed by the Rules of Procedure, which should apply to all and to me, and to other MPs alike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43996	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. I would certainly react if one of the MPs said the same thing that you said and I would worry and I would think that I was wrong, but when you do it many times and in today's debate and in the debate these days you have done the same thing and abused the Rules of Procedure, you abuse it all the time, throw it away, threaten, insult the MPs, all of it, and then report back and say that someone has abused the Rules of Procedure. That, you know how it's said in our people, but that's not how I want to replicate it with you. I let you point to my injury. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. In any case, when someone in the harshest way hurt the Rules of Procedure, I took away two minutes and I've done it before, but what Mr. Babic said and the situation that I didn't hear Mrs. Marjanovic say it, I had to listen to it until the end and hear what was said, and it's certainly an ugly thing to use a dictionary like that in the National Assembly, in the large hall of the National Assembly, as one of the MPs here says. So, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: I answered by replica. ) Mrs. Marjanović, if you knew the Rules of Procedure as well as my colleague Djurisic likes to say that he knows the Rules of Procedure very well, you would know that you can't, you just pointed it out to me, so now I comment, you would know that there is no replication to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: He mentioned me twice. ) Mrs. Marjanovic, Mr. Babic reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure and there is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Isn't that clear, too, Mrs. Marjanovic? I repeat once again, if you knew the Rules of Procedure, you'd know that you have no replication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Replica? You have no right to a replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why? How do you have the right to a replica? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You mentioned me directly. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43997	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Parliaments, in a set of laws in the economic sphere that are set before us in today's debate, there are laws on privatisation, on the capital market, the tax procedure, the tax administration, the corporate income tax, the chambers of commerce, cooperatives, laws that affect the improvement of competitiveness and employment in the form of a loan agreement for the realisation of an important objective, and above all the employment of unemployed persons. We also have before us a proposal for a law on contributions to compulsory social security. The set of these laws regulates a number of issues, regulates themselves in a new way, or amends them, and all aim to change the climate and conditions for the development of the economy, connect business entities through a new organisation of the Chamber of Commerce, organisation of cooperatives, etc., which contribute directly to the creation of new jobs, the employment of people and the application of various incentive measures that should, in any event, strengthen the economic miles in which Serbia is located, linking all entities, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, bringing foreign investors, and all this as a result of an increase in the number of employees. Today, there are a number of unemployed people in Serbia. I highlight groups of educated, young women. During the previous period, a period called transition or we call transition, we all hoped that this process would improve the economy and businesses and will live better. The sale of companies at any cost, the orientation of services and other secondary activities led to the closure of companies, but to the deities and domestic banks, the workers are fired, the assets of the companies stretch and destroy, and the workers are out of work. Many tragic consequences are also known. This, unfortunately, was a necessary, absolutely necessary and natural consequence of all the previous measures that led to such a tragic condition. It has come to almost one-third of the working population in Serbia being jobless. Elderly without being able to get a job, young people who finish schools and colleges without being able to get to the first job or any other valid work experience. The necessary consequence is the loss of hope and perspective, long-term poverty of individuals and families and finally the great departure of young and professional people to work abroad. In this way, Serbia lost one city each year, and one city and, on the basis of a lack of population renewal, which, with all these economic conditions, has, of course, a direct and necessary consequence. In all these processes, women were particularly threatened. Back or forth for a year or two, these processes seem to have stopped, though not enough. The problem is that Serbia still does not have enough jobs in line with what is being sought on the market, which means there are not enough businesses, enough investors, not enough small or medium-sized entrepreneurs to give new opportunities to the necessary extent. Therefore, the measures proposed to this occasion are of great importance in this area. In particular, I will highlight this project to improve employment competitiveness. Its goal is to improve what it says is the effectiveness and coordination of selected public programmes, to mitigate the obstacles that exist in employment. The aim is to promote investment, work and employment, exports, innovation and, in general, to restore the labour market and better provide social assistance users, above all, by moving to formal jobs and thereby exiting the self-dependent social sphere. This project is supported by the International Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Loans, under very favourable conditions. That's what a special law is about. What's important here and what's specific? The loan agreement was signed on 7 October 2015 and was approved by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. The loan amount is hundreds of millions of US dollars, i.e. 89m and 500 000 euros. The objective is clearly defined, as well as dynamics and rules for withdrawing funds. The duration of the loan is 25 years, with a grace period of 10 years. The interest rate is a six-month Eurobor plus a variable margin, which is currently 0.73%. Serbia's debt will return to 30 consecutive half-year wars on March 1st and September 1st of the year. This shows that credit conditions are very well and clearly defined, objectives and deadlines are specified, clear measures, and it is also natural to expect a very clear result. The project focuses on a set of reforms, especially on training and expansion and new labour market dynamics. New employment is a great priority for the government and it interests all citizens. The whole project focuses on more effective demand for existing funds, not on increasing the expenditure of the state. This project should be implemented over the next three years, and the direct effect is, of course, greater employment and better life, i.e. to enable the socially endangered population to play an active role in the labour market, not just passively, using social programmes and providing, unfortunately, life in poverty. It is better to develop employment, and thus also mental security and stability, than the army of poor, dependent on social assistance. Also, in order to ensure conditions for the implementation of comprehensive business environment reforms and the creation of conditions for investment inflow, employment and economic growth, measures are envisaged for further discharging economic operators. That is why a special law on changing social security contributions is proposed, and this means that new reliefs are proposed in the employment of workers. This measure will continue to encourage legal employment, reducing work to black, reducing the total number of unemployed, and thus increasing the social security of citizens. The proposed legislative solution, in addition to the existing relief for the employment of new workers, is another measure related to the continued employment of new people and small businesses, not only for those with more employees, but also for those with one or two employees. In any case, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group and, in accordance with its programme, supports all the measures and proposals of the laws that go into terms of developing the labour market, developing new employment and thus ensuring social security of construction and exiting them from passive to an active sphere of work. The Socialist Party's parliamentary group also supports the proposed laws from this set and will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43998	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u43999	Article 108, Mr. Chairman, paragraph 1. And where are the MPs? And where are the MPs of the former regime? Empty benches, sir, chairman. Well, there are more ministers than MPs in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44000	Don't do that, Grandma. There's Mr. Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44001	Two colleagues, I do give them credit for being here, but where are the other MPs? We listened to it today - here, we'll kick your ass, here, just so we can tell you something. See, for all MPs, the subject of the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Co-operation, the Law on Chambers and other sets of laws is important, or perhaps some other activities are more important now at ten o'clock. Here, where are the MPs of the DS? Here you go, Mr. Djurishic. Good evening. I am pleased that this breach of the Rules of Procedure has been initiated by a fellow MP, Mr. Djurisic, to return. That's good, that's success. I will report every time by the Rules of Procedure and every time a member of the People's Parliament returns, I will be very pleased and this National Assembly will be much more successful. Here's another one, great. Let's go, let's go, Mr. Becic. You can see it was worth checking in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44002	You forget Mr. Babic, Mr. Djurisic is no longer an MP of the DS. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44003	Of course, it would be good for the camera to show how many other MPs are in the O.R. and how much they want to participate in this farce since the debate, where it is the government's desire to hide a lot of bad things waiting for citizens in 2016, all those amendments to the law... Let's talk about the citizen income tax, anything with the intention of introducing a new imposition... [[off microphone]] What's this about, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44004	It's about that, Mr. Djurisic, that you just warned me that I couldn't let the MPs use a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you're doing it right now. No, like Mr. Babic who pointed out that there are no opposition MPs in the O.R. and nothing more out of it, and you're talking about laws, about government, etc. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, I answered the line.]] You can't talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I didn't report for the injury. Mr. Djurishich, don't, I'll have to give you a warning. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I did not report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I picked up the line. ( ) How can you injure the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Djurishic, don't make a circus out of the National Assembly. You've been trying to do it all day. That's why you got a warning today. I don't want to be convinced with you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Show me, read where it stands that you can't replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's good in the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Show me, read me this article. Mr. Djurishich, the next thing I know, I have to give you a warning. Mr. Kiriq, would you like to use your time? (Goran Ciric, from the place: Not the time, the MP group DS was mentioned. ) Here, you have the right to replica two minutes. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: How is he right? Let's just focus a little bit. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Cirich. I didn't expect you to know the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djurisic throws all the time and I can't concentrate. So you don't have the right to replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I just said to Mr. Djurisic, and I didn't expect you to... (Goran Ciric, from the place: Well, he spoke offensively... ) Mr. Ciric, the Rules of Procedure do not allow a replica to be broken by the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well as an MP, and we have been repeating it for months, for years in this House of National Assembly. That's the kind of Rules of Procedure you brought. Unfortunately, you brought it when you were a force and strength. That Rules of Procedure must now be respected. Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44005	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, this government has nothing to hide, it comes with high-quality bill proposals and works full capacity from the day it was formed, headed by Aleksandra Vukic and all that the representatives of the former regime have failed to do, I guess now they are wrong to see this government carry it out very successfully and vigorously. Today, I will remain most of all of these proposed laws in the joint principled single search of the Cooperatives Act, since I consider it to be one of the most important laws, especially in the area of agriculture, since this Law on Cooperatives and how it will affect the organisation itself, the increase in employment and the increase in gross domestic products. This law in itself regulates many things and brings newspapers, according to the laws in the EU, where cooperatives and how they are developed and where cooperatives play a significant role in the economy of most EU countries, which we are seeking, and where we are on the right track, since we are witnesses that we opened the first chapters just on 14 December 2015, and are open to the work of Aleksandr Vukic, the government that he leads and not many promises. In a short time, as much as Alexander Vukic is at the head of the government, he has done a lot, and I guess that bothers someone, which is exactly who is strongly leading this country to the EU. Also, this Law on Cooperatives has brought many newspapers in a positive sense, so that only from now on they will be able to establish cooperatives of five members, but those who are not members of the same household. This was particularly true of our central parts of southern and eastern Serbia, as well as the border villages in Vojvodina, and they are actually a target group where cooperatives should be established to improve the economic environment and to make our people come to work and to live better. The existing cooperatives with decades of legal continuity also had a problem with the resolution of social property and this law is currently resolving and this very important segment, where somewhere around 50,000 hectares of land conducted as social property will be returned to cooperatives, i.e. They will return to the joint property, and thus they will reach certain areas where the cooperatives will be able to deal with what is their primary purpose. Let me also mention other cooperatives, where this law, which is the roof law for cooperatives, has also taken care of youth cooperatives, housing, craftsmanship, and also, are newspapers and social cooperatives, which will also bring a good, humane and, I would say, a very important organisational structure in solving social problems. If strategic and not only had this law been insulated for itself, this law is also a strategic basis for the organisation and development of cooperatives and cooperatives in the Republic of Serbia, it is contained in the Small and Medium Business Development Support Strategy, Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness for the period 2015 to 2020, with the Action Plan for the implementation of the said 2015-2016 Strategy. Also, the important thing is that for the first time, cooperatives know, which is that special protection in Article 12. The law states: “The cooperative enjoys special protection from the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government in the pursuit of its weighty performance.” The special protection provided for in Article 1 shall be reflected in the promotion of cooperative activities by economic, agrarian and housing policies, as well as other development policies, including the provision of appropriate reliefs and benefits, which shall be determined by specific regulations, as well as the possibility of establishing specific funds for the development of cooperatives by units of local self-government or AP Vojvodina or the provision of funds in the budget of units of local self-government, AP and the Republic. So this makes it clear that this law is not isolated for itself. This law is only part of the system of laws that some have passed, some will be passed these days, precisely to send strong support to all who are already members of cooperatives and newly founded cooperatives. Also, the link between this law is with the Investment Act. Why? Because in the Investment Act, we have evened out domestic and foreign investors, and in this law we also see this Cooperative Act, where future cooperatives, as a legal person, will have the same treatment as foreign companies established here in the state of Serbia. I can't help but feel that I'm going back, how much cooperation in Serbia's country meant not only as an economic subject, but the cooperative was also a cultural and social and sports center of what was happening in the villages, where it is actually the role and the greatest domination of cooperatives, which we want in a modern and modern way through this law to return. The role of cooperative alliances is also important in the organisation, merger and management, the introduction of new technologies and all that would improve the business of cooperatives. In particular, I would like to highlight the role of the cooperative alliances, the largest cooperative alliances, the Association of Serbia and the Vojvodina Association, which are truly dominant, in addition to the 24 active cooperative alliances in the Republic of Serbia. All in all, I expect from this law, as I have said, that this is only one segment of what this government does, what the Ministry of Economy is doing, and how significant shifts and effects of this law through increasing employees, through increasing the number of cooperatives, and that our annual gross turnover of cooperatives is not about 59 billion dinars, but to be at some time and 10 times larger, which is certainly potential and many major states of the Republic of Serbia. I think the Ministry of Business has taken one significant step with this law and all those upcoming laws online and a series of those laws that will and how to improve the economic environment. I would also refer to this Chamber of Commerce Act, given that Minister Sertic has great experience in the chamber system and it is indeed commendable that an extremely high-quality law has been passed, that economic operators no longer pay three membership fees, that they no longer have three addresses, etc., but that this law also regulates the chamber system in one quality way. The chamber system, which is extremely efficient, can be... Unfortunately, we haven't had anyone in this section in decades, but I say again, Alexander Vukic, headed by the government, you ministers, and how he showed that only when he wanted everything to be changed for the better, as it is. Of course, in voting day, I will support all these laws that are on today's unique search. We're not secretly doing anything. All of this is being recorded, we're doing it in public. All of this will be seen by the citizens of Serbia, to hear. All these citizens of Serbia in the next election, local and rural, will evaluate, assess, so that we can have this chamber that each of us speaks by one or two laws. What do we do when citizens have given us so much trust that we can split up and adequately explain from the domain of our profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44006	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44007	Mr. Chairman, member 27 has been injured. I won't ask you to vote, of course. I think it's the obligation of every MP when he's missing from the National Assembly session to report to the president of the National Assembly. Have any of the MPs of the DS come to you that they will not be present? Has anyone come to you in the meantime, Mr. Chairman, from DS MPs not to attend? I really don't see, except for Mr. Ciric, I really see here a final demeaning of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia by the DS, because if they are tired of writing amendments, it's time to say MPs are tired of writing amendments, but I don't think citizens are paying us for fatigue and rest, but for work and for engagement. So, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to see with the President, have you heard from DS MPs today that they will not participate in the work and that they will not debate with us and with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the very important draft laws that are on the agenda today?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44008	Mr. Babic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and how do you expect me to hear from the MPs who asked for my shift? Thank you, do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Ziric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44009	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. So the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People's Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to bring out facts, etc. So you had and you were wrong, you violated the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn Mr. Babic when he personally addressed me with this advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, that question can be referred to the SNS group and you are right, you gave a great answer to Mr Babic. DS MPs have shown their attitude towards the way you run the Assembly, Mr. Becic, because you have double arches for representatives of the opposition and representatives of the ruling coalition. I think it is very important that you remind Mr Babic, because we see how many MPs and SNS are in the hall, because that list of those who are missing in this assembly hall would have been much longer if they had come forward and reported their absence from this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44010	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. If I understand, you're saying that DS MPs aren't here in the debate, because, as I understand it, they're boycotting me as chairman? Then why are you here? But just before the chairman of the assembly, why weren't they at that moment, Mr. Kiric? So that's your explanation, I don't think so. But, well, your right. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44011	Mr. Chairman, I have not addressed any other MP at any time than you, because you are the only one I can and have the right to address, or the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman. So it's completely untrue that I've turned to anyone, not even a view, let alone anyone else in this room. With the previous speaker, he would agree only on one thing, and that is that it is humiliation and trampling by the dignity of the National Assembly when MPs who have been paid to do the work of the MPs, to debate the laws, to submit amendments, to vote at the end, if not for the legislative proposals, then at least for their amendments they have proposed. E, all of this is not done by the MPs of the DS and the recent criticism, and the recent call to the Rules of Procedure, on Article 107, is more turned towards their parliamentary group, namely the MP group of Mr Ciric, which is DS. I keep asking, and where are the MPs of the DS? What's that? Maybe, a quiet dream, maybe all the charms of Belgrade nights? But in any case, the citizens of Serbia are not paying us for it, but to do business in the Plenum, in committee halls and all that the SNS parliamentary group does.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44012	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Every MP in this room has a duty and obligation and if he considers the laws important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to attend the debate, so that is a sufficient answer. Do you want the congregation to declare itself? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44013	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the government, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Law on the temporary regulation of how to charge public media service fees was shared by the public. One party demands that two media houses be removed from the Republika Srpska budget due to the influence of political structures on editorial policy, while the other side, defends citizens from new costs and opposes taxis. There were also political promises to solve this situation. What is interesting is that during the payment of the TV subscription, there were two groups of users, those who settled this obligation and those who did not. Those who reconciled this obligation after the cancellation of the TV subscription saw that those who did not do so were again stimulated. This raises doubts about the realisation of such a law. Also, such a bill leads to an unenviable position of the EPS, because if it is known that the charge was 25%, I am taking a sample from 2013, is the EPS obliged, in that case, to use its resources for the other 75% and how will it be settled if it does not do so? Mathematically, we come to an enormous amount at an annual level, as much as 18m euros. That is why we have made an amendment to Article 5 to replace the word invoiced with a word. There are a large number of people in Serbia who have signed contracts with cable operators and all operators in their standard packages offer two media services so citizens rightly ask questions – do they pay the same TV channels twice? The public service is obliged to have the independence of editorial policy and the SNP considers that there must be no political influence and control of editorial policy and we hope that there will be no increase in the level of taxis, at least while the Law on the reduction of wages and pensions is in force. On the occasion of the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce Act, I must point out that in the era of general decentralisation of all forms of organization, a system of chamber organisation is being centralized. The efficiency of the existing system is seen in a poor organisation within the chambers themselves, poor staff policy, lack of real co-operation between chambers, strong policy impact on work and decision-making on the chambers themselves. Under the current PKK law, an already proven businessman, regional chambers of commerce and the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce should lose their independence by joining the PKK and can be organised on their own if they have conditions, which is a great rarity or cease to exist. Mandatory membership is also introduced, which so far has been voluntary and of course mandatory payment of membership fees. We see this as the new monthly material obligation of potential businesses, and in the conditions of difficulty in business and the SNP is the opinion that such a serious bill should have been declared by the Serbian economy through public debates. Today it is on the agenda and the debt of "Srbigas" to NIS, amounting to 23.4 billion dinars. The debt would be paid out of the republic's budget by taxpayers' money. Such a way will eliminate all this year's savings achieved by reducing wages and pensions. Can we expect such a scenario for other public enterprises? It is necessary to make a realistic audit of the business of public enterprises in order to avoid such situations that citizens, i.e. workers, pay for bad business or staff inability to run enterprises? And what's the guarantee that next year won't happen the same situation, because we're already on the verge of over-indebtedness? Given the short minute, I can't make an analysis of all the proposed laws, and there are 17 of them today, so I'm going to try to amend them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44014	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44015	Thank you. I'll try to be as brief and precise as possible, given that we've already done a good job in the last hour of this day. I'd like to say a few things about two of the most important laws in my book today. It's the First Cooperative Act. In view of the fact that a lot of what was associated with the existence of cooperatives, related to the period of socialism, for a period of some real socialism, was mentioned in a negative context in the previous period when practically the set was conducted by the DS, cooperatives had a status that could be characterised very negatively, and the fate of all these cooperatives that were, in turn, the mediums in which they existed, especially those rural, rural, rural environments, were practically devastated. Their property was torn apart, drawn, sold, kidnapped, and no one adequately cared or cared about it, nor wanted to deal with the problems that the people involved in the cooperative area were dealing with. I must point out that since I come from a region traditionally dedicated to this cooperative form of business, from Piroth, the area known for its large pastures, the area that may be covered by the municipality of Piroth is one of the largest municipalities in our country, today it is possible to count on the fingers of a mockery cooperatives that are functionally. This draft law on the agenda today is an attempt by our authorities to improve the situation in the area and practically bring into a functional state something that was once a motto of development, villages above all. Today, 12 or 15 years after coming to power, the DS situation with the effects of those measures taken in the areas of economy, agriculture, and especially in the area of agriculture is linked to the attempts and to the foundation of what was once wanted to be done with cooperation. Cooperatives, I would like to point out, are several of the most active in the area of the Pirot Municipality, "8. September," The Topolovska cooperative represented not only forms in which farmers were able to organize for the sake of their product placements but these cooperatives were practically also forms that cared about the supply of basic life-forms to locals of these remote mountain villages, which in the last ten years have been practically left at the mercy and mercy of the harsh conditions of nature in which they live. Sleeping Beauty of the Stara Planina, the great potential for the development of the Pyrothic region, today, I can responsibly claim abandoned. A week ago, I personally visited over 100 miles of road through the desert villages of the Old Mountains where no man can be found, let alone a domestic animal. The former cooperative property that produced the best products such as pyrotic helmets was derailed, decomposed, and no one is taking care of it. The local self-government in which it is in power that once belonged to DS, formerly the URS, and now who knows who it plans to belong to, who has been headed for 12 years by a man named Vladan Vasic, despite persistent attempts by the opposition to the SNS, the Socialist Movement and others to draw attention to a truly catastrophic situation in these rural areas, did not want to pay any attention to the problems encountered by remote villages that were once life-bound and organised through agricultural cooperatives. This time I'm talking about the farming cooperatives I repeat, they used to be the motto of agricultural development in these remote villages. Unfortunately, I mentioned it a week ago on a television show, that there is no bread or human store in Belgrade beside the temple of St. Sava, and that in remote places, the villages of the Old Mountains do not exist. One of the problems that can be solved by this bill, this bill that wants to virtually change and improve this catastrophic state, which is a typical reflection of DS policy that has been led over the past 15 years, exactly ten years while in power, is this attempt that can lead to a better situation, to the organisation of peasants and to the return of young people to the countryside, which can only be the basis for fighting the development of these rural areas, the fight against the white plague and the resuscitation of Serbian agriculture. A peasant who has always been a supporter of the Serbian state can be once again only needs to be provided with real foundations, legal grounds for good association, to function forms of association such as agricultural cooperatives, which is achieved by this concrete bill and we will see the effects very soon. I hope that after the next local elections, we will have the opportunity to gain support in local self-governments and to take on such a stable basis to restore what it was and what is possible for our country to develop and rebuild. In addition, I would also like to say a few words about another, perhaps the most important law of this set of laws, the Privatisation Act, which, since I come from the Socialist Movement, the Privatisation Act is one of the reflections of DS policy, and we can check the effects of this law all in the places from which we come. The success of privatisation I would not like to measure in percentages, but the effects in the area or in the city where I come from, I can say that there used to be over 20 economic entities in Piroth, today there are two or three, among others the largest producer of male suits "1. May" Pirot and where luck is that such an amendment and addition of the Privatisation Act happened long before, that we could boast that we would practically stop applying the Privatisation Act much earlier. Since I am left-wing I will say something that may seem to someone like heresy, the Privatisation Act is one process, and in the other direction there are many other laws, there are many other processes that have shown in the previous period of socialism that they can develop economy and that they can restore economic potentials. What was one of the negative phenomena in the previous period was the fact that in this enthusiasm of liberal capitalism, people who were involved in the business were allowed to protect or shut down their previous companies and without any problem to open new business entities, continue to operate in the same form, add the company's name plus or contact or so on or any new word and continue to work. In that sense, the proposal for a law on the central record of temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered in the APR is absolutely good and absolutely should be supported, given that the conditions are thus created to pre-war the functioning of the negative or poor functioning of those who are engaged in crime or those who have not been fair in their work, in particular, I support the basics of a temporary restriction which contains measures on the prohibition of restrictions or security of the exercise of registered business or business, the prohibition of the availability of general assets and the prohibition of the exercise of duties or calls on a responsible person. So these are the things that have occurred in practice in the previous period as very negative and that have virtually been a big problem for all of us in all of the environments, especially for those people who wanted to deal with the fair economy, working in those areas where they operate. It is also good that this Bill on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods that demonstrates the intensities of this Government headed by Alexander Vukic to practically meet the wishes and needs of our citizens and our citizens. The law on republican administrative fees and what I did not say, and perhaps at the beginning of the Chamber of Commerce Act, since I mentioned the situation in the economy, mentioned formerly the largest male suit manufacturers from "1. May" which today is very much in an invisible situation, which perhaps even the chambers of commerce have not taken care of enough, since the chambers of commerce were in one truly chaotic state and much more in these chamber circles took care of the care of those who may have ended their economic careers. This is an attempt to seduce order and into the area of chambers of commerce, and absolutely such a bill is needed, and we, as members of the Socialist Movement within the SNS parliamentary club, will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44016	I thank you, Mr. Todorovic. You're right, the Democratic Party is mentioned and your authorised representative or head of the parliamentary group or the deputy head of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. (Goran Ciric, from the place: I am authorized, look freely. You're right, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44017	One day, you, as chairman, happen to be right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44018	When I make a mistake, I say it, Mr. Kiriq, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44019	The predecessor mentioned the Democratic Party a dozen times and I don't see why he mentioned it, really. True, the DS was in coalition with Mr. Vasic, the mayor of Pirota, who has been mayor for ten years and one of the most successful mayors in Serbia. This preparation and the way to recommend yourself to your voters in the upcoming local elections in the debate on all these laws may be interesting, perhaps productive now at half past 12, in some delayed transfer, and I don't see why you haven't mentioned besides these criticisms that some villages on the Old Mountain are being put out, you didn't mention that something the previous government did to change this process on the Old Mountain that doesn't last for the last five years, but it lasts especially since the 1990s and the failed economy of the Pyroth is in the 1990s and so on. You didn't mention it, it surprised me, you didn't commend the investment of previous governments on Baba's tooth, on the Old Mountain and on the way you can go through such a cluster project, to encourage the development of both Piroth and Književec and Svrlig and surrounding municipalities, and I think it would be more correct for your exposure to have just said that. And here, next to the minister of the seven people who were both in previous governments and in the cabinets of previous ministers that you now support, and I think it would be correct to support their work at the time, just incentivising that part of Serbia, which is personally very important to me, because my parents in the area and I know very well what Pirot looked like 10 years ago, 15 years ago, and what it looks like today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44020	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44021	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will, in my presentation as well as most colleagues so far, look back at the Cooperatives' Bill, perhaps the most important reason for that was this law, because in the conversation with us MPs, what citizens are often interested in, is when the area of cooperatives will be arranged. This is particularly interesting for people from the village, which is quite normal, because when cooperatives functioned the way they should function, they had something called certainty, something they could count on, which, unfortunately, is not the case now. Otherwise, when you mention cooperatives and what they are to each of us associations, it's that agricultural cooperatives. Of course, we are all aware that there are many other cooperatives, and we can only remember how cooperatives, such as youth cooperatives, student cooperatives, that allowed some young people to study on their own. Of course, these cooperatives still exist today, but far from that, unfortunately, they function the way cooperatives should function. Co-operation in Serbia today is in a very difficult state and I deeply believe, and I believe that perhaps the Serb village felt the most consequences, and this will definitely be the most in my presentation, that the Serb village may have felt the most negative consequences of the poor organisation of this area. Yes, the cooperative has gradually collapsed, for years and now it is in the state it is, perhaps most of all led to the fact that this area is currently governed by two laws, and unfortunately by two laws that are in complete contrast and as such, of course, that practice is causing one confusion, one misunderstanding of what to do and, of course, the general atmosphere of legal uncertainty, which has led to cooperatives today looking the way it looks. It is this law that we are discussing today that will again affect the country, most of all in the country, that I would especially underline, but this time I deeply believe in it, in one good and one positive way. What is the basic goal is for the cooperative to briefly recall, is that in this way agricultural producers join together, by association with cooperatives, they stop being small and, of course, they become more and more powerful. It's just a brief reminder of what the cooperative's primary goal is. That is the point of everything, and I believe that just by the proper application of this law, it will return. What can it all lead to? This can lead to a truly large agriculture, unfortunately so far, far from using enough potential, that agriculture will really be able to develop as it should. What's important is to break up with one practice we have so far, but it's no longer a practice, it's in the current conditions of more than one must, which is that Serbia places the highest quality, best, healthiest raw materials on the world market. Why not turn this good quality raw material into a good quality product and place a product that is much more expensive for a change, but raw materials on the world market. Of course, we couldn't do it so far, because something like that requires a lot of money, and therefore small agricultural producers don't have the kind of money that is needed, but it's exactly where the cooperative goes, and that's why these cooperatives are just opening up some new doors, new opportunities, as I've already said, as soon as people are united, they're not so small anymore, but they're opening up some new opportunities, which I believe will lead to the full development and the growth of our agriculture. Something very short only on the law, since a sufficient number of my colleagues really spoke in detail about it, this law will finally solve a decades-old problem, and these are property legal relations, and this is more than positive and also, every good law is a simple law and it is a fundamental feature of everything that is quality, so that this law, by establishing the work of cooperatives, will be maximumly simplified. Now to form a cooperative, it takes five natural persons, and unless I'm wrong, the minimum amount of money needed is 100 dinars, which further simplifies things. In detail, very precisely, everything is defined by this bill, how the cooperative works, how they choose which members, cooperative funds, cooperatives, which are international principles, which are cooperatives, everything is very detailed and precise, there is no place for any abuses, and therefore it is always necessary for the law to be such, simple, but clear and precise and precise, that there is no place for any possible abuses that would lead to legal uncertainty, and all of this which I have so far listed and listed, very briefly, I would say that enough is to be said about a law that is high quality and modern and that will definitely be regulated, if it is properly and adequately accepted by people. But not only in the economic sense of which there was talk, but, therefore, the economy is the base, without it there is nothing to talk about, but that it will affect that social cultural aspect that is both important and that, I would say, is determined to stop migration from the village, because we can't expect people, especially from young people, to stay in the country unless we offer them anything. I believe that the law on cooperatives will come to life successfully, that it will change some things, especially when it comes to the village, that it will prevent migration and that it will really mean a real good start and a rebirth for Serbia. That is why I am convinced that this law should be supported, as of course other laws that have been spoken of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44022	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The People's MP Boban Birmancevic has the word, and let the MP Marko Atlagic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44023	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow respected citizens, is now 20 to 12, I would like for citizens who may not know it, I would like to commend at this point we have three ministers who help to present this set of laws in the right way, to answer the questions that are being asked. It just shows how seriously this government is committed to the reforms and changes that are needed to finally have this environment, the environment that foreign investors need to first, but not just foreign investors, but our citizens to understand that they live in one orderly state. It's been a long debate, but what I wanted to point out is that after 120 years more precisely in 1894 in the village of Vranovo near Smederev the first cooperative was founded, a credit agricultural cooperative 121 years ago, and already in 1898 was passed the first law on crafts, agricultural cooperatives. I repeat, in 1988, we had the first law on agricultural cooperatives, and now, almost 120 years later, we will have one law that will restore order into matter, that is, cooperatives that simply lost their goal and purpose of existence. All these laws together, including the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which also restores faith that economic operators operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia can have their own house again, which is the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia. Also, a very, very long history of the existence of the Chamber of Commerce, i.e. the association of companies and the far 1857s, was founded the first association, so called. It's a trading committee. As early as 1870, commercial committees were formed in Šapac, Valjev and Smederev, and in 1910 it was already similar to commercial chambers. The Chamber of Commerce and Labour Chambers was established. So, after 100 years in 2009, the law that totally destroyed Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, which divided the Chamber of Commerce into some 19 different chambers and simply totally broke everything that could have brought good business to businesses, all that could have protected businesses and led to better business. It is extremely important to say that these laws are now leading to the creation of this positive climate, and all those who have preceded these have just united everything the government has managed to do in this time, which is to finally stabilise both the economy and the economy and restore faith in the future of this Republic of Serbia. That the government thinks about everything right now shows one law that may have been unjustly neglected, which is the proposal for a law to rebuild after a natural and other accident. Indeed, when it was 2014, it was clear to everyone how many problems these were and how much damage we suffered from it, but of course this government thinks about what it would be like to be. I will read only two members of this bill that clearly state what the Government wants to achieve by adopting such a legal act. Article 1. I quote - this law regulates the process of restoring and providing assistance to citizens and economic operators who have suffered material damage due to natural and other disasters, in the text below; the end of the quote. I quote Article 3. – State aid and reconstruction programme lays down measures and criteria for the provision of assistance, or criteria and procedures for the renewal and resolution of the consequences of the elemental and other disasters; the end of the quotations. The government has made clear in 37 members what happens and how it regulates if there is an elemental and other disaster, and therefore citizens can be calm in the part of the fact that if an elemental accident occurs that they will know what and who and how they are doing and as the best possible, the most honest way for both citizens and the state to help those who need help. In the voting day, certainly SNS and all those who wish well to this country must support these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44024	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. The People's Messenger Marko Atlagic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic be prepared as the last to be declared. Here you go, Dr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44025	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, Mr. Verbic, the esteemed Mr. Minister Sertić, Mr. Vujovic, the esteemed Mrs. Vera Dondur and other associates, my smallness will say only a few sentences on the Law on Privatisation and perhaps two sentences on the Law on Scientific and Research Work. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the privatisation process began as a global process more than twenty years ago and caught up with all the former Socialist countries of Eastern Europe and developing countries, and even some undeveloped countries. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all of the governments of the former Socialist countries were in a hurry to carry out the privatisation process as quickly as possible, which means turning social and state-owned into private property. Real Socialist countries have completed the process in time, only the Republic of Serbia has not completed the privatisation process so far. I believe you all agree from your position and you from the opposition with these findings, but why? The answer should be given, precisely because the previous governments of the former regime hesitated to do so, in order to make as much use of these companies as possible for their own wealth. So the full 15 years have passed, and the privatisation process has not been completed, and it should have been because the former DS governments, the former regime, have drawn financial resources for their own wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and this proposal for a law on privatisation and amendments to the Law on the right to free action have its stops in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he submitted to the National MPs of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2014. And, let us not forget, for all those concerned, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Aleksandr Vukic is the most comprehensive, most accurate, largest, 52 densely knocked sides, the most concrete and best of all 72 previous exposés of the Serbian Prime Minister, from the time of the first Prime Minister of Modern Serbia, Mr. Prota Matija Nenadovic, to this day. Gentlemen, on the page of the 10th Exhibition of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, I quote: “The government will also take care of our state-owned companies that bleed, some of these companies have a sustainable business mode, but they are being mishandled, some of them used to make certain powerful people rich through the waste of funds. Over 20 years, no one has even dared to touch these companies, everyone's been pushing things around the carpet, lying to people, and they're rarely waiting for themselves, waiting for the state to pay for the cost of all the citizens, something they didn't really earn. Each government moved the ball to the next one." Done, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, quote. Anything that has not been completed in the privatisation process for the past 15 years, the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Vukic, must end in a very short time and you do not doubt it will end. The former regime essentially left the important economic leverages of our country to foreigners by privatising the banking sector and handing the banks over to foreigners. The former DS regime sold all companies that had their profitability drained from Serbia's market, as they had previously been placed on foreign markets, such as tobacco industry, cementers, beer industry and banks. On this last few sentences I'm going to say. The former privatisation regime destroyed the country's banking system. The 11m-euro Duke of Meridian Bank, former Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, is one of the DS's perjanicas, introduced four largest banks into bankruptcy and thus privatised "Beobank", "Investbanka", "Jugobanka" and "Belgrade Banka", gentlemen of the people's MPs. These four banks were developmental, credited with their own resources, on favourable terms, these banks were to be the moto development of the domestic economy, and should not have been closed. Djelic Vojvoda of the Meridian Bank with 11m euros closed them down. So, gentlemen of the DS, you've privatized businesses. My smallness has no intention of giving you more mass, not to say hundreds of enterprises you privatized in a robbery way. I have to say for the sake of public, truth and justice, then Djelic didn't tell these banks the truth, not to say he lied, in fact, that the debt of those four banks was 8.5 billion, and it was only a billion and 700 million euros. The total bank claims were 6.7 billion euros, so four times their debt and that destroyed the country's economic base. So, gentlemen of the DS, you've been doing the privatisation. I am convinced, honourable MPs, and the citizens of Serbia, if you watch this transmission, that Mr Djelic, among other things, will catch up with the hand of justice because of the bank's robbery privatisation, and will be responsible for his dishonest work. He is one of those who, through robbery privatisation, undermined the country's economic power. I personally think that law enforcement should be on the move. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on privatisation is abolished by the Privatisation Agency, and the business is taken over by the Ministry of Economy, which contributes to the rationalisation of the state administration and consolidation of the country's financial system for which the government has not only been defined, but also very successfully implemented. By robbing the parties of the former regime, not only by this example, but by many others, they may have destroyed our past, destroyed our present, destroyed the future of our children, and if they had remained in power on a republican level for just another year, they would have destroyed our roots. There, you respected citizens didn't let them, you drove them away into a political past from which I hope they'll never come back. Two sentences at the end of the Law on Scientific Research Work. Mr. Minister Verbic, an excellent law, a modern law, a modern law, a European law, on the basis of it has already made a strategy that will be the first time in Serbia's history in ten years, the first question of researchers will be resolved in a valid manner. For the sake of truth and justice, there are no ones, Mr. Verbic, who have been criticizing you today and who have been wrong, because they have spoken a sentence that catastrophic health and science has been in the last year and a half. Just one sentence. Of course, that grade is flat, even if it came from academics. I have to say for the sake of truth, the Law on textbooks, for the first time in 15 years, the most consistent and the best according to the assessment of gentlemen of the opposition, not just from the position. Two more sentences. You, Mr. Verbic, have solved the issue of out-of-state wards in colleges. Fifteen years ago, no one solved it. The question of the dean's third term was five, ten terms each. You, Mr. Verbich, have managed to resolve it. No one has been able to solve the student deadlines since my day. You, Mr. Verbich, have left it to the colleges for the pleasure of our students. I can count on it. I wish Mr. Academyman was here to cross the facts, but it's not worth it. Allow at the end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to invite you to give your vote in voting day. I especially invite you from the opposition benches, even if there are two of you tonight, to give your vote, even if that is the case, and you will at least make a little contribution to the modernisation of Serbia, which is so strongly advocated, not only by our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, most of the MPs in this National Assembly, and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, almost without saying plebiscitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44026	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Goran Ciric, a replica, the mention of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44027	A respected colleague failed to contribute to the truth tonight, as he spoke about the privatisation process and mentioned a name. He mentioned Bozidar Djelic. You forgot to mention your partner, Mladjan Dinkic, who participated in the process yesterday. But, referring to Djelic, you forgot that your prime minister had much more confidence in him and hired him in the key privatisation process of Telekom, because he works in a company that is currently in the process, most demanding. So this trust was obviously directed to him by the prime minister, not to you who in this way criticise the whole process. To talk about the truth, about privatisation, I think you'd be much more convincing if you hadn't talked about a party to the former regime. At one point you were kidnapped – parties of the former regime. Yes, you would be right there, because the parties of the former regime and those of the 1990s and so on, so one of the ministers of privatisation was Beko, so one of the ministers of privatisation was Yorvanka Tabakovic, you forgot it, and some of the ministers were Mladjan Dinkic and had a privatisation process where, as you call the EU, one of the key privatisations, the robbers, as you call them, or suspicious privatisations, because I will not accuse anyone in advance, of those 24 privatisations at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. There was no DS as a former regime anywhere, as only Sartid is mentioned among the 24 privatisations at the time of 2003. Everything else was in the government of Vojislav Kostunica in a coalition with the G17, minorityly supported by the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44028	Time. Thank you. Mr. Atlagic, you have no right to a replica, you are not mentioned. Mr. Granny, you have the right to a replica. It's not him, but he's also the head of the parliamentary group. [[Goran Ciric, from the post: Why is he entitled to replication? Not mentioned.]] (Goran Ciric, from the place: And who did I mention? I didn't mention SNS, I didn't mention anyone. ) If you think you are not, just as you are entitled to a replica, so is the head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44029	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have now heard an interesting finding that Bozidar Djelic owns Lazard. The RS government did not hire Lazard, but rather hired, according to previous speaker Bozidar Djelic. This only confirms exactly what Mr. Marko Atlagic said about the millions in the aunt's couch, about the many things made and earned during the ministry and during the time he worked for the RS government for a modest salary of hundreds of thousands of dinars. If according to the previous speaker, he was hired, Mr. Djelic was hired as a Privatization Advisor in the sale of Telekom, then that's fine. Now we hear Mr. Djelic owns Lazard. But what else can worry, not me, which should concern the previous speaker is one tendency -- why won't anyone go with them? Why won't anyone go with them? Because when they share power with someone, then it's okay, then they're best friends, then they equate the victims, then they settle, then they play basketball, then they're best friends and with their colleagues here in the O.R. and with those who are no longer in parliament. From the moment they no longer need them, they become the worst enemies, so you can't be ashamed of the time of co-operation with the G17, with the URS, the time of reconciliation with the SPS, and then when you needed to form a government and then when they helped you form a government, you even the victims, and now you don't miss a chance to visit them in the 1990s. Why didn't you remind them of the '90s in 2008. Why didn't you mention the 1990s when you were given minority support in some governments? No, you're not because you needed them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44030	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been given by MP Nevenka Milosevic, as the last reported debater. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44031	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with associates, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my honor to speak to you in these midnight hours. A set of laws from, I would say, three important areas for the development of the Republic of Serbia, which are economy, finance and science. I'm going to start, very briefly, from the draft law on cooperatives, because it's a new law and it's really new news, good news for our citizens, above all for agricultural producers. I come from the Ivanica municipality, where there is a long tradition of cooperative. In the last period, the cooperative has been extremely ruined. We had a good cooperative, an alien cooperative. Today, although it has hectares and forests and land, it simply does not work the way agricultural producers wanted it to be. They put all hope into this law and we believe it. And to commend a group of enthusiasts from my municipality, from two villages, let's say, the Medregje and the Chances, who founded a cooperative and in these present conditions, when we had valid two laws that we heard were creating a certain and great confusion in the functioning of cooperativeism, where we actually had a legal dualism... All of these negative consequences of the poor functioning of cooperatives reflected, above all, the development of agriculture, primarily small and medium-sized agricultural holdings, as well as the comprehensive development of villages where large evictions occurred, population migration. This law, of course, will solve a lot of things. This law is the result of a fundamental public debate and many suggestions and proposals have just been adopted and are part of this law. He has, of course, a priority and economic aspect, but also a social aspect. In this way we will have simplified procedures, one simple law that is understandable to everyone. What is the fruit of the debate and what the citizens simply pointed to and what is an integral part of this law is to introduce, say, a cooperative review, because there have been many abuses that have been recorded, and now we have sanctions that will follow for unconscious business. It is certain that this bill is in the best interests of our citizens, above all agricultural producers, and we will surely support it in the Day of Vote and Support. Tomorrow we have a further debate on agricultural laws, which is the Agricultural Land and Land Protection Act, so I wouldn't talk any further, because we've already heard a lot about this law. I just briefly want to focus my attention on amending and supplementing the Law on scientific research. They boast once more, Mr. Minister. We are also on the Committee on Education, Science, talking about this law, but I would like to express my position that, regardless of these amendments, amendments to the law, we need a new law that should be tasked with changing the financing of our scientific researchers, that they are not only funded by the project, but that it is in some way institutionally solved. I think that's the basic problem we're going to solve with a new law. However, these changes and additions to the Law on Scientific Research Work, of course, eliminate many shortcomings, and what scientists have shown, which are only 13,000 in Serbia, are that they lack these basic material resources. The newspaper of this law is also in this regard. With projects, at least 20% of the funds will currently be allocated for material assets, which will certainly overcome this problem. We heard the other newspaper. I won't repeat myself. We'll have a chance to talk about the amendments to the discussion in detail. Finally, to conclude, I believe that all these bill proposals are in the best interest of our citizens, in the best interests of the Republic of Serbia and I will certainly support them along with the SNS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44032	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44033	From tonight's marathon debate, I think there's been some issues, there's a lot of laws, and we could have been more efficient if we were more willing to listen to each other and give each other an opportunity to make arguments. I think there's been an important question. It's a matter of responsibility for a spoken word, of a promise, of a political promise. One of the topics that has been mentioned and which has not remained clearly clear enough, since I feel nervous and attack on colleague Vesna Marjanovic, when she spoke about it, said nothing terrible, and I will read something that will probably clarify this law that we are adopting tonight. A statement by Aleksandar Vukic on 24 May 2013 -- "TV subscription, as promised to Serbian citizens, will be lifted because I do not belong to that type of people who have cheated on Serbian citizens for 12 years and only dealt with marketing tricks. It is our obligation that we will not give up." He wrote a Wolf on Facebook yesterday. It is news that can be checked and can be checked by all citizens of Serbia. Today we are witnessing how that word is held. Today, we are likely to pass a law that will show how it adheres to this word. The second thing is that there is a lot of public talk about whether agricultural land can be sold to foreigners or not. I have noticed with you, Mr. Chairman, that you have approved when I spoke in favour of this argument, that a member who says in the Privatisation Act to Article 4 of the proposal relating to Article 12 of the Law says – a buyer in terms of the provisions of this law can be a domestic or foreign legal person or a natural person. Only a domestic legal or physical person can be a buyer of agricultural land. So, with this last sentence – only a domestic legal or natural person can be a buyer of agricultural land, as if we are sending a message to all domestic farmers that only they will have the right to purchase land, but it is obvious that both a foreign and foreign legal person can be the owner of a domestic legal entity, and thus also the owner of that land. I think it's important to tell that truth and I think it's important to expose the way and be much clearer in these messages and stick to those messages. Something that Minister Vujovic himself accepted as a good remark, I respect his honesty and a clear view, so there is no ideal law and there is no full justice, and especially when it comes to the Law on the Obligation of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad according to the NIS business and transforming these obligations into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister asked the question – well, here, we have this debt, it was achieved by 2013 and yet we will remember we have current leadership from that period and today. Obviously, you've respected the work of this leadership and that you should stand behind both those decisions and those moves today. So it's hard to respect some former regime now because these are people who are sitting in parliamentary benches today who are responsible for the system. But what I should have done and what I insist on, and I would like to get an answer, I have no doubt that I will get it, which is that at this point it is really important to look at the total liabilities of "Serbigas" and the review of investment investments during that period, especially the review of debtors and creditors, because if you follow, and I believe that you are following, the information only about four to five months ago, Serbian Director General said that the claims of "Srbiagas" are higher than the debt and that they are higher by about 300 to 400 million. That's what he said back there in the middle of the year. Three hundred to four hundred million more than the debt. The biggest debts are mentioned directly to the NIS. Back then, 220 million, we heard that some interest was written off, so it probably came to 200 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44034	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44035	I think we're looking for an answer right now. It is necessary to collect the claims more effectively so as not to bring into an unfair position and other creditors, both as a state and as a result, to bring serious consequences, especially financial consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44036	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44037	Yes, of course. No matter how many times the false is not true, because the MPs of the SNS will always respond to such things. Subscription for public service for RTS cancelled. A subscription that was charged at the time of the former regime by 500 dinars and no one even thought to allow citizens to have a smaller amount, to cancel the subscription, anything. Now, you and those, Mr. Chairman, who have been charging 500 dinars from citizens, are now criticizing why the tax on public service is 150 dinars. Now, explain to me, what logic makes 150 dinars bigger and harder for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia than 500 dinars? And they haven't offered us a single sentence, and what's the alternative, and what's the solution? For public service, what's the solution? What are they offering as a solution? Are we having a debate here? What are we discussing? About mere criticism? Without any suggestion, one single suggestion. I haven't been out of this room all day. I haven't heard a single suggestion. Next, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Chairman, who signed the Stabilisation Association Agreement? You remember that inflow of feathers that, at least a thousand times more expensive than this plastic pen, because it was branded and cost about how much average salary in Serbia, but it was in the hands of Bozidar Djelic when he signed the Stabilisation Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44038	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44039	The Stabilisation Association Agreement was the way it was accepted, he meant that the country in Serbia could be sold to foreigners. So who now honors us with those things, what they have done now honors this government of the Republic of Serbia. Please, it's inconclusive, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44040	Thank you. (Goran Ciric: Replica. On what basis, Mr. Kiric? He hasn't spoken to you for a moment. (Goran Ciric, from the post: He asked for an answer. To me as chairman. He asked me for an answer, not for you. He's been talking to me the whole time as chairman, and there's no moment you've mentioned him or the DS, or you yourself. So you don't have the right to a replica. (Goran Ciric, from the post: He asked for an answer. He asked me to. Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? The word has been issued by MP Nevena Stojanovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44041	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning. I'll try to be as concise and pragmatic as I am in this presentation, given that we've lost a lot of time at a discussion that wasn't on the agenda, but good. We're back in progress. I would like to say that the JS parliamentary group will always support those draft laws that represent a continuous process towards adopting, that is, implementing reforms aimed not only at attracting foreign and domestic investment, but at creating favourable conditions for the business of domestic businessmen and entrepreneurs. One such law is exactly the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We can say that this law continues to be a positive practice of stimulating legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs on legal employment. This law allows all economic, legal entities or entrepreneurs who employ two new persons, i.e. to increase the number of employees compared to 31 October 2015, have the right to return 75% of paid contributions to compulsory social security on the employee and on the burden of the employer on the basis of the earnings of the new employee. We will certainly support this law in the voting day, precisely because it represents a positive practice in creating favourable business conditions. The next law I want to highlight is the first Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. Since JS is particularly known for its socially responsible program that fights against the white plague, so we advocate a systematic resolution of the problem of decreased birth. We therefore particularly support this law on commending the MUP, which has also provided an initiative to amend and supplement the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. It is included in the implementation of the project "Bebo, welcome to the world" aimed at facilitating the administrative procedure of future parents in the application of the newborn child to official records and is proposed to prescribe the exemption for the payment of the tax on jobs and shops and to report the residence of newborn children in the sense that the tax is not paid for the certificate issued for the application of the residence of the newborn child. I don't want to focus on harmonising the provisions of the laws relating to the taxation of weapons, but precisely in the part that leaves the possibility of fosterers exercising parental rights over adopted children, who are multiplely distracted in the development and which leaves them with the possibility of releasing taxes on the use of motor vehicles. Since we all know how difficult it is for a family to have children with developmental disorders, I think that any relief and any help from the state is and how welcome it is. When I talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, we are talking about one goal towards faster implementation of the tax procedure and more effective work of the tax administration, as well as greater consistency in the application of the law. We all know that the biggest problem in our country is not laws, but exactly the implementation of laws and a long administrative procedure in many fields, so that Unique Serbia particularly supports the transition to the electronics administration in the tax administration. We believe that we are living in a new era, in an era of information, in an era of technology, and that Serbia is now a helmet towards all these innovations, but here we hope that we will soon make real shifts. The same thing that I want to point out, which is positive with this law, which he supports is this transition period, at a time when we have to keep in mind one inequality and a gap in the education of our population, which in most rural areas does not have the availability of the Internet, so that it leaves them with the possibility that tax returns should also be delivered in paper form. Speaking of a new era, information and technologies and science, we must say that today's science is exactly the technology of the future, and we need to view science as an instrument of development, not as a cost-effective side of the budget, which is unfortunately not big. That is why I want to support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Action and to commend all the efforts of the Ministry, particularly Minister Verbic, which I know has just contributed to the writing of such a law, which is just coming from this field of scientific research. I would like to point out that this law and similar laws are just preventing the outflow of young talented brains and our countries, not only developing science, but the Unique Serbia will, as it has always been, advocated that all talents remain in the country. What I don't understand about this law, exactly the public procurement process, which is why we need to extend this project cycle until 30 June 2016. I only care if perhaps the minister can answer – how will we prevent similar kicks from happening in the next project cycle? As far as the Cooperative Act is concerned, he's had enough already, I just want to say that a person who comes from a generation who doesn't remember this beautiful great time of association, from the experience of his older colleagues and what I've heard from my environment, from his parents, I can say that it's extremely good that he leaves to our citizens, our farmers, now the possibility of reuniting, especially at the moments of a new liberal capitalism that tends to destroy less and less agricultural producers. I would like to say that in the day of the vote, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will speak positively of all the proposals of the law, from tonight's united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44042	Thank you, Mrs. Stojanović. The word has a minister, Dr Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44043	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, here's to clarify what public procurement is about. Of course, that everything scientists get for their own needs is done through some public procurement, they're always asking for three offers for what they need, and so they've always done, but when they're taking money out of a loan to get a re-promaterial starting with paper and tubes to the biggest capital pieces of equipment, then the process unnecessarily fits. Today we have a situation where money that should otherwise be determined for the material costs of the budget is derived from loans that are subject to different public procurements, different procedures and which results in a united public procurement. Public procurement containing several hundred or several thousand items that are purchased in one and the same tender and in that same tender we have everything from a needle to a locomotive. It happens very often that such a tender does not pass, because simple equipment is not obtained in such a way. I hope that we will correct this 2012 mistake in due time and that what is the re-promaterial will be obtained as previously obtained and that the loans will only be used for large capital equipment for laboratories.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44044	Thank you, Mr. Verbich. Mr. Djurishich? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I have time for an authorised representative. Yes, but before that, there's Mr. Marinkovic, so then you. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44045	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this discussion when it comes to these very important laws for the economy of the Republic of Serbia and for its finances, I will begin with some fundamental aspects that these laws promote in the context of this debate. I would primarily mention that since 1 January 2016 Serbia has finally become a country of real market economy, therefore, a market economy in full capacity because total social property is abolished on 1 January 2016. I think that Minister Sertic will be written down for good in the history of our economy as someone who broke up with the reflexes, so, the remains of that self-government socialism and the socialist system when we came into the situation that even after the constitution we voted in the 2006 referendum on the abolition of social property and after nine years we had it. That's great news for Serbia, it's great news for the citizens, for the economy and of course for the business environment. What he would then point out is that finally in this country, those who are party to political authorities take responsibility are making decisions. It is a very important decision that the Ministry of Economy will take over the activities of the Privatisation Agency and that since 1 January 2016, the full responsibility for the completion of privatisation will be shifted to the Ministry of Economy as well as to the Minister of Economy itself, which is one serious improvement in the management of the state, when it comes to leadership and governance of the economy and the creation of a business environment in our country. A short time ago, counterpart Babic mentioned that there was not enough debate, there was not enough proposal and there was not enough arguments when it came to the particular laws on chambers of commerce, the laws on cooperatives and I agree with him. I think we haven't debated enough whether this system, the chamber system proposed in this law, is it good, is it compatible with the German system, the Austrian system, the American, Japanese, whether the model of the cooperative system proposed under this Cooperative Act is compatible and in accordance with the experience from Italy and other successful countries in which cooperative systems function very well, create jobs, create a good part of the gross domestic product. What is very important when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce Act to point out, this is the aspect of taking over business of economic diplomacy by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and implementing the process and system of dual education. Already decades ago, serious states, developed countries, adopted the doctrine of diplomacy itself, a new doctrine, putting public and economic diplomacy into the main focus, so 10 or 15 years ago in Brazil, in the highly growing economies of the world, as the main result and parameter of the ministry's results, not only in economy but also in foreign affairs, you had the result of economic diplomacy and had as a major aspect of their success in exporting one country. So, the main founder, the main priority of diplomatic action, is exactly what the performance of domestic enterprises will be in other markets, foreign markets and how much exports domestic enterprises will be. And of course it takes money, and of course it takes resources, and of course the Serbian Chamber of Commerce should be more present in all parts of the world where there is money, where there is capital, which is currently the United States, the Far East, the Middle East, Africa. These are the parts of the world where we can act, where we can perform with our capacities, with potential goods and services that we can sell to these markets, but, of course, on the contrary, attract investment from those countries. But what investments? This is the policy of this government – the investments that have a spilling effect, new technologies, new knowledge, new management. The other day, I had the honor and pleasure of attending with Mr. Sertic the opening of the Korean Chamber of Commerce. It's not an accident. And it is not by chance that Korea opens its trade representation just two days after the opening of the Chapter with the EU. Because it is a signal to investors who are not close to our country that we are a politically stable country, that we are a country in which there is a good business environment and that can receive investment here such as "Jura", such as "Hundai", such as "Kia", such as "Samsung". So, the best and the best-quality companies in the world. We are also discussing these laws in an environment in which the IMF approves, so it gives a positive assessment of the third revision of the arrangement with Serbia and it is an excellent signal to creditors and investors that they can continue to invest in our country in a quality and good way. As for the very settings and financing of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, it has not been mentioned so far that entrepreneurs will not pay membership fees to the Chamber of Commerce. And I'll remind you, and that's what Mr. Sertic said at the Committee's session, that in our country it works and works over 200,000 entrepreneurs. And they will not be burdened with membership and payment of membership fees. So, it's just going to be limited-responsibility societies, stock companies, larger companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, but that's why we're going to have a chamber to implement our economic policy, deal with economic diplomacy, introduce ourselves into our system, along with colleagues from the Ministry of Education and the sciences of the dual education system in secondary education, and we're going to finally educate the staff, when it comes to secondary vocational education, in line with the needs of our economy. Finally, we will have a clear strategy, which is our profile, which we will need for young people's qualifications in the coming long term so that we can develop our economy in the overall sense. When it comes to a set of these financial laws, what is very important is that we have continued the process of encouraging investors and people who want to hire new people and we have brought that threshold down even to companies that employ two or more people, which is very important. These are micro-enterprises, these are enterprises that have the potential of some additional employment, and of course all others – small, medium and large enterprises and that is one huge and good incentive to what is the main objective of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also of us here in parliament, which is new employment and resolving the problem of unemployment in our country. In this way, through these incentives, we will encourage investment, we will encourage foreign investors to hire, but what is also important, we will encourage domestic investors and domestic businesses to have extended reproduction, to hire people, to expand their business and, of course, to be more competitive, to be better on the market, but also in the country to solve the biggest problem there is. When it comes to the Cooperative Act, the fact that we've been without this law for 11 years tells us how much it really took. And it covers agricultural cooperatives, something that used to work, works in developed Western countries, and I hope that this law will be a quality framework that will encourage the association of farmers, but the association of all those who can work together and thus be competitive on the market, to have a lower price of their products, to export more and, of course, to sell more. In any case, this will be another good and quality additional incentive for the economy. I'm going to end up just by mentioning that more models have certainly been considered when it comes to the chamber system and that I would personally always advocate the adoption of an American chamber system that is voluntary. But what is the essence of our story is that our chamber is working and that we have to act in line with the specificities of our market, and our market is such that it has to be compatible with the markets in the region, with markets like Austria, with industries like Germany, and this model will be applied. Even these models include subsidisation by the state when it comes to the consulting role of the chambers of commerce, when it comes to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We are aware of this and the parliamentary group that I belong to, the SDPS Group will strongly support this set of laws, of course, their implementation and strong Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce that will help our businesses to be more competitive and that they can find the best and most qualitative way to get to new markets, the way to new customers, the way to new consumers, which, of course, will have positive effects on the lives of Serbia's citizens, on new employment, on all Serbia, on modernising it, on its organisation, on its faster and more dynamic European integration and on everything that is needed for our country to be what it deserves – a developed country, economic leader of this region, we have already become, someone who is committed to regional co-operation. Prime Minister Vukic has contributed greatly to being one factor of stability in the region, political stability, because we are aware that stability in the region has a positive impact on the Republic of Serbia and on our economic development. But we'll also be a country where science develops rapidly, where innovative technologies develop and, of course, where young people will have the ambience to work, to develop their business ideas. So, Mr. Sertić, I want the best in 2016, the year of entrepreneurship. The Ministry of Business and the Government of the Republic of Serbia declared 2016 a year of entrepreneurship and I want us to finally become of the official society, an entrepreneurial society, that Serbia deserves, that its young people deserve to be competitive and to be and to be the best results in the region, but also beyond, so across the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44046	Thank you, Dr. Marinkovic. The word has been authorised by Parliament's representative, MP Marko Djurisic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I give up. You gave up? Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Authorised representative of the SPS Mr Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44047	Thank you. Dear Minister Sertic, respected Minister Verbic and respected Minister Vujovic, with associates and distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the most resilient and perseverant, is a long day, I don't know when this delayed transfer will be and when we will be in front of Serbian citizens, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44048	At half past seven this moment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44049	Don't interrupt me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44050	You asked Mr. Radenkovic, I tell you that at half past seven.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44051	I didn't ask you anything. Don't interrupt me. This year seems to be reformal, not only by good estimates of international institutions and organisations, but also by the recovery of the economy and growth of the optimism of Serbian citizens, but also by the fact that the legislative authority is more than ever making a full contribution to the adoption of key economic and system laws and the very up-to-date preparation of existing laws. And with that, it's no wonder that the end of the year, unlike some of the earlier times, we don't welcome with two rebalancing and the adoption of the budget at the last minute, but with an arranged funding for the next year and with a clear idea in which direction we're headed. The solution, of course, is not controversial. Today we have a set of laws and amendments and additions to the law and some of them are needed for the implementation of the budget, some of which concern other economic areas. If I continue with a positive tone, and there is no reason not to, it is nice to add the fact that we are trying to resolve the "Gordy knot" of law-making practices without proper changes in other laws, and that the Government is making maximum efforts not to remain without proper sublegal acts. However, before I move on to these technical changes, I think we should go, first of all, with changes that have a fundamental fact. The Privatisation Agency is going down in history. Whether history is famous or not, it's hard to give a single answer. Did we succeed in privatisation, especially in the socially responsible and efficient? The answer is of course we're not entirely. Could it have been better? Well, of course it could, most of the time between 2000 and 2008, when we had a great environment, but a great lack of courage, determination, and very often the congratulation mentioned here. Perhaps some of the fellow MPs who, unfortunately, are not here could better elaborate on what prevented Serbia at a time of unrecorded prosperity and optimism in the world from doing their job. However, the result of this irresponsible relationship is the transfer of hot potatoes to this majority, which has done as much with companies that have been knowingly sacrificed at the altar of demagogy and indecision. In 2015, most of these companies turned out to be bankruptcy candidates, and on this majority it is that bankruptcy use as a healing instrument. It will likely work to improve the framework for this important process, since the company's top interest in bankruptcy is to find a way to resuscitate in a healthy form, not for liquidation and sale, as some assets. To us it is, rather, the Ministry of Industry remains very difficult tasks in 2016. Not only difficult when it comes to the economic dimension but also difficult when it comes to the social dimension. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, we can say that these changes and additions are in the spirit of two strategic definitions, both from the SPS and the congregational majority. First, we do not clothe ourselves with sublegal acts of possible indetermination or the need to modernise procedures, but we do so through legal changes however it makes sense, there has never been more of a negative impression of the opposition to the laws and acts of the executive authority than those who loved the regulations very much. That's how we got into a situation where several years ago in the IRS, sublegal acts were applied that no one knew the sources of law. Secondly, these changes and additions are heading towards a faster tax procedure, easier processing of data, logic in the collection process, protection of those who respect the laws of this country and good business policies. Also, we continue in the direction of the administration and true opportunities for the tax administration to focus instead of on day-to-day and almost exclusively on tax accounting and on the mechanisms for better service of regular and fair salaries and effective destimulation of those who see tax evasion as a legitimate way of dealing with business, and sometimes on medium and even large businesses. It is also a very complementary law on the central record of temporary restrictions on the rights of persons registered at the Agency for Economic Registers. This is about a law that allows us to establish a higher level of trust in the market and information of all business entities and citizens, whether there are restrictions that result from the proper actions of natural persons disqualifying them to occupy certain management positions. This law is in line with EU legislation and represents a way to make the situation on the market more secure and transparent in both private and public enterprises and to improve the overall quality of management of the manager's responsibilities. When it comes to the Law on Cooperatives, it is one of the longest expected laws in this recent history of Serbia. This law removes legal duality and introduces clearer and simpler rules of application in the 21st century market economy by reducing the number of founders and reducing the number of mandatory bodies. Obstructions are removed to facilitate the establishment, capitalisation and the creation of property-legal relations with external financiers. Finally, we have a solution to the mechanism that a relic of social property, a cooperative economy in this segment of the economy and a mechanism that will prevent a fictitious cooperative from being recognised as an instrument of acquisition of property. Also, this law is very interesting and very understandable in accordance with other laws, since the existing law has long ceased to be adequate to this reality in which our country is located. Finally, maybe the law that causes a lot of public storms like this is the Chamber of Commerce Act. The law on chambers of commerce finally corrects the great illogicality that happened when we left the system that had successfully functioned in Serbia for decades, independent of social order. This bill corrects the illogicalness established by the previous chamber law. The chamber system with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, as a national chamber, was established in line with the needs of Serbia's economy, and when it comes to chambers at regional and regional levels, there was a strong resemblance in organisations and a way in working these chambers with chambers of the same level, organised in a large number of countries around the world. It was the legal regime of the chamber system in Serbia, which has a very long tradition, and I will repeat what many colleagues have said, that there is this legal legacy dating back to 1857, when Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic established the Trade Committee and whose jurisdiction applied to the entire Principality of Serbia. There are few institutions in Serbia who can boast of such a long and rich tradition. The membership on that committee was mandatory then and did not change until the moment someone thought to implement an Anglo Saxon solution in the continental legal system. Experiences are very clear to anyone who really wants to see what a successful chamber is. I warned about this at the time of 2009, when the long-term system was replaced, unfortunately, by an existing system and has not in any way made the chamber system better. Not with us, we have similar cases in Romania and we have in some other countries that have gone through "imposed modernisation". The new law should strengthen the role of the chamber so that it is an initiator and promoter of economic laws, a critic of the government in economic and social policy, a service of economy and employers, an organised educator, a representative of the economy in front of the country and a representative of the economy abroad. The position of the chamber in terms of influence of strength and quality is far more pronounced in the environment of mandatory membership and legal establishment than in the environment of voluntary membership and contractual establishment. If you want to learn something from us from the MPs' group, I'm a little tired, since it's hard to spend all day here. Isn't that right, Mr. Granny? I see you're tired, too. If you want something from the SPS parliamentary group, you haven't reported to the Rules of Procedure in a long time, we said this in the period of 2009, when this model that proved inefficient was adopted. Now I would quote myself what I said in 2009. That might take a little while longer, but I can see that we're all already tired, so I'm going to skip that part of that particular quote that says why we were then in principle against the introduction of this system when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce. It was common knowledge at that time. The quote lasts a little longer, and counterpart Nedjo is familiar with that quote, so I'm going to skip it, because there's also a quote and a sequel to the quote and the end of the quote. This time I'll skip it. I think it's a good thing we have a majority now that's rejected that bad concept of the chamber system. Our views are unequivocally clear and firm, unlike some who change attitudes and opinions depending on whether they are in power or in opposition. We are not glad that time usually shows that we are right, for one reason only, because in that period we all suffer the consequences. We hope that we will always have the opportunity to show this as a parliamentary group as little as possible, and that we will almost always adopt valid laws based on the real need of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44052	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr Radenkovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44053	Thank you. I'm really not going to quote myself. That's a little weird when you call your quotes, but it's okay. In order to show that I am not tired and that SNS and the MPs of the SNS are not tired, anyway, it will not be the first time we have come here in this room, so we also came to the debate on amendments to the Budget Law for 2015 and 2016. Here, I call for us to proceed, Mr. Becic, with the work. I think we have another set of laws. I suggest we continue to discuss the Agriculture Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44054	Like some people think it doesn't matter if they don't mention the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44055	I have no problem, here, showing that we are really tireless when reforms are and when change is for the better of our countries, we can move on. I believe Mr Radenkovic will also draw that last atom of strength from himself to join us in this debate on the Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44056	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic, a replica of Mr Babic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44057	Of course, we from the SPS together with you from the SNS have shown that we can stay until the morning and when the debates were being held and that some times they didn't make sense, and when they were meaningful, there we are, the MPs, to exchange arguments, opinions, attitudes. I don't think I mind, here, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to continue our work and to keep the third set of laws united, because now the second one we crossed about seven, half eight, had 18 points that we had united. We don't mind continuing our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44058	I thank you, although I think all the debates in the National Assembly are meaningful. We'll continue before you know it. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44059	I would ask, it is five to one, and it is that we are in the thirteenth hour of the debate, but I would ask my colleague to be a little more specific, because when he says - we from the SPS are used to staying until morning, you might think they're used to staying in the pub until morning or somewhere else, but I think it was still an invitation for us all to stay in the National Assembly in the Pleum Hall and work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that's what Mr. Radenkovic thought, but he was caught up with a little tired, so for the sake of precision, I believe in the word that they're ready to go on and on after the next set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44060	Do you, Mr. Jovanovic, as the second SPS MP in the O.R., want to replicate? You have no right to be deputy head of the parliamentary group, but you have the right to have someone whose last name was mentioned to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44061	It's when you called me, otherwise I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44062	I wouldn't have called you if you hadn't answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44063	Thank you. In any case, given that we have been working for a long time, I would not want to waste our time and energy on unnecessary conversations and controversy, it is not disputed that MPs of the SPS Group are ready to work. They don't know the cafes or the birdies or anything else. When they are here, they work zealously, along with their coalition partners, which they have proven several times and will prove further. If there is a desire and will to continue working, of course we are ready to accept it and of course we will respond, as we always respond to every call to contribute to what Serbia needs, what Serbia's citizens need, what the government is seeking, what are the objectives of the government. We show it and we show it, so there's absolutely no reason why the SPS and its MPs don't participate in this work anymore in the most pragmatic and qualitative way, which they always do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44064	I hope not too long. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44065	Mr. Chairman, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44066	Mr. Arsic, you have a full 20 minutes. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: on what basis, when did Mr. Babic speak? Please, Mr. Arsic, you deserve more than 20 minutes. The answer to Mr Đurišu, Mr Babic, is a replica of Mr Radenkovic's exposure. He has given him the right to a replica several times. Mr. Babic didn't use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Arsic. You've got 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44067	Mr. Chairman, let them ask the Rules of Procedure to find out why. We don't have to answer their questions every time. Every time they talk, we have to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44068	It's the duty of the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44069	Here, Mr. Chairman, we've heard a lot of discussions here. Many things were mentioned, many governments, many politicians, many presidents of political parties. You must remember that Vojislav Kostunica was from the DS. It was a long time ago, but it's a detail of DS, so as they reproduced, what they're doing here now, but they don't increase the number of votes, they've done some big damage to Serbia. Not a day today will be clear to me two things – did Vojislav Kostunica bring the DS to power or did the DS bring it to the power of Vojislav Kostunica? That's the first thing life won't be clear to me. The other thing that will not be clear to me in life is who has ruined Serbia more, whether one or the other? I think that together and that one letter absolutely doesn't play anything, Mr. Chairman, because the first Privatisation Act was written by Vlahovic from the DS, was an MP, and was conducted by the DSS Bubalo. As the people in the privatisation lost their jobs, the DS gentlemen convinced them that they didn't even have a job, Mr. Chairman, convinced them that their factories didn't exist, that their jobs didn't exist, that their families didn't exist, that they could finish what they started, which is to get hold of those assets that didn't exist for everyone else, except for them, and that was worthless for everyone else except them. Now we're talking, let's say, about a small law that concerns micro-enterprises and says one of the MPs here -- here, you bring tax reliefs for tycoons. They had micro-enterprises in 2000, those tycoons, and now they have big companies. They don't know how much money they have, and they don't know how many people have gotten hurt, but while DS or her children were shaking, they ruled Serbia. They mention, say, the current governor, Jorgenko Tabakovic, and she also said she was the minister of privatisation. According to her law, I'm talking about examples that I know of, not something abstract, only one company was privatized in Pogorevec. Do I have to tell you that only one company is doing this today? This is ‘Bambi’. Anything else privatised by Vlahovic and Kostunica's privatisation model no longer exists. Then someone gets up and says, "Let's see what's up with that famous, say, television subscription?" Then he says, "If you're not ashamed to charge the citizens 150 dinars of television subscription, do you know how much that is?" And when you increase the pensions of 500 dinars, you didn't raise them anything. Make up your mind once. What's this about? A completely mixed system of values, or I guess when you give it to that principle, it's a lot, and when you take it from people, it's a little bit, so you introduce yourself here as a success. I have nothing, say, against Mr. Krkobic. I congratulate him for being a successful director, but I would stop doing politics to make him a better director, as a pensioner, than I am 46 years old, and he turned out better than some. Now they're talking about what we should do, the ones who had their chance. We are talking about "Serbiagas", and one of the fellow MPs says, "Here, this debt came in 2013. It's not. Debt was created in 2008 until 2013. . It is true when a colleague said -- much more requires "Srbigas", than he owes. For example, one of the most fierce debtors of "Serbigas" – Azotara in Pancheva. What did some former minister spend a little time in prison for Azotara, robbing artificial fertilizer? Who else owes the most to “Serbiagas”? You mean citizens who use gas? No, I don't. With them was the easiest, they were immediately excluded, and our citizens paid for it on a regular basis. They owe them the most heat. As the citizens paid for the gas, they paid for the heat, while their presidents of the municipalities and mayors cheered for local self-government. When the citizens paid, where the hell is the money? Where's the money that the citizens paid for remote heating services? There isn't. Gone. As money disappeared from the Vojvodina Development Bank, as money disappeared from Agrobank, as money disappeared from Galenika and all other systems. Wherever you've been and now you're taking care of the citizens. You were so worried that you stayed for a few more years in power you would have continued that time since 2000, when we were the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so we were the State Community in 2003, so we became an independent Serbia with KIM, so we came to be independent of Serbia and to fight for KIM. What's next? Let's move people out of Serbia and say, "Here you go." She's worried about the chamber. The system, which was established by the same former regime in the case of chambers of commerce, was only that those good and healthy enterprises were forced to pay their officials with whom they did not know what to do, membership fees. That's why we're changing that law. The Cooperative Act must change. Yes, one colleague said that the first concept is thought of agricultural cooperatives and that there are other cooperatives, but farmers are the most important ones. They're the most important. Serbia is a agricultural-agrarian country that has lost its processing industry, such as your former director of the Republic Veterinary Authority Micovic and has now tried to shut down a slaughterhouse. So you destroyed, through a slaughterhouse, complete and cooperative and livestock and primary agricultural production, so that the tycoons, which financed you, would buy grains for little money, because Serbia is one of the largest producers of cereals, and sell on markets around the world. That is why we need to have a new Cooperative Act to facilitate this tiny, small agricultural producer to join and compete on the market. Since these cooperatives you have left us, as they are, are no longer used for the purchase of repromation in agriculture and for the purchase of agricultural products, they have become the most common independent trade in 99% of the cases. So we need something new. Whenever there's a debate like this, someone touches the subject of choice. We are not afraid of choices, nor of these congregations. We don't mind the entire election campaign being here in the Assembly. As much as you talk and conduct your campaign, our discussions will go that way only to remind you of the state we have found and how much we have changed it. When it comes to EU accession negotiations, we have achieved more in two years than you have in 12. That's how business works. You've only ruined the economy so much that it'll take a little more time to finally see tangible results. These tax laws, which are now passed before the end of 2015, are not in the sense that we are not allowed to hold meetings of the Assembly in 2016. It is a purely technical reason, which is that taxpayers also start using the benefits of the laws we give, because it is not true that taxes are increasing, but are shrinking, especially when it comes to employment. There is an opportunity for small, or micro-enterprises to employ two new workers and that 75% of taxes have the right to return. It's not an increase. It's a reduction. When it comes to this famous tax on use, holding and carrying goods, which is also your invention, and which, when public finances are finally stabilised, should be abolished, because it's the only law where you pay multiple times for the same thing that we talked about doing. Also, the tax on goods, which are taxed, will pay as much time as it uses, and not as it is now – pay now, so for a whole year, whether it uses it or not. So I'm sure with this set of laws, we are finally entering certain tax reliefs towards the citizens of Serbia. There is no problem with continuing to work in 2016, and in 2015 this business of rounding tax rules must be completed and we will vote in the voting day, as well as for these tax laws, as well as for those who regulate both chambers of commerce and cooperatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44070	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. You'll get the right, Mr. Kiric. I thank you, Mr. Arsic, and the answer to your question – that you are right, I remember a lot about these 20 years in the National Assembly as much as you do. The word has been made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica of Mr Arsic's presentation. Here's two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44071	Yeah, I was looking for a replica, because the children of the DS were mentioned, so all the parties that came out of the DS and that was the reason for the replica. The way I'm here in the Assembly today, I'm looking at the children of the SRS. When you ask – and what did those DS children leave for this country, here I will tell you. Zoran Djindjic and Kostunica, if you think of them, first of all, and remember those 20 years, or more, they've brought the country out of the '90s and opened up that road that you now support, fortunately, you've accepted as your own. And we heard from the prime minister here, here are the last days many quotes he likes to mention by calling for Serbia on the right track, and in 2001, the late Prime Minister Djindjic led the campaign Serbia on the right track. When we hear everyone here together 10 times from Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic – Serbia on a good path, Serbia on a good path, apparently the SRS child has accepted something from children you have now mentioned as people who have destroyed this country. And in 2000, they inherited a country with 300m euros in foreign exchange reserves, you inherited the state with 11 billion euros in national reserves after these years. With an average salary of 30 euros, they inherited 240m euros. Now, that's what you're talking about. And when you talk about the first laws that the minister was then, you said Vlahovic, suggested, and first I guess it was brought by Minister Beko and Jorgenka Tabakovic, you mentioned it yourself. I don't know why so many roads, but you've continued the path of those you've most criticized in this attack.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44072	When you mentioned it, you forgot to say both destroyed Serbia and Serbian citizens through privatisation. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44073	First of all, I'm not ashamed of being in the SRS at all, but obviously to you. You have one problem, which is that you think and think that you have the deed to introduce Serbia into the EU. That's not true. That's not true. When he says, you quote the prime minister who says Serbia is on the right track. It is, but not yours, but the way that Aleksandar Vukic leads Serbia, and the road you led Serbia was the way for Serbia to become the property of two or three people. They were on a great path to achieve this until there was no government of Alexander Vukic. When you realize that, then we can talk about some other results and mention some other names.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44074	Thank you. By your rules of procedure, please welcome Mr. Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44075	Article 107. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament. You should have reacted and warned the MP, since he was talking to me the whole time, and I immediately drew your attention. So, I'm looking forward to you taking that trip. I look forward to you changing your mind all those years from 1990 to 2000, and I look forward to it because of you, Mr. Chairman, because you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-21-0.u44076	I'm just answering your question, you can't use a breach of the Rules of Procedure, especially if you're showing up on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Exactly what you're doing right now, I'm sorry, Mr. Kiric. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the common, principled, uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 54 to 71 of the agenda. Resumption tomorrow at 0900 hours. I'm sorry, today, at 9:00 p.m. on Tuesday.
