ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29640	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29641	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I'm advocating Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which states that meetings of the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. It's 10 o'clock and 20 minutes. So we're 20 minutes behind schedule. So far, if we had worked on the Rules of Procedure, we could have handled 10 amendments. I believe this is a great irresponsibility, a waste of time and people's MPs and citizens of Serbia and all together, and that these things should no longer happen, whether it's about misunderstandings in the coalition, so you can't have a quorum or because there is no minister, it's in the ruling coalition. Well, please, President, as last time you warned the MPs and ministers, that this was no longer happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29642	Thank you. I have nothing to say to you because I can't deny it. It is 10 hours and 20 minutes. I can't tell you you're wrong. It's just, I'd like you all to pay attention to the fact that it's time per article 87. Rules of procedure from 10 to 18 hours, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, by the book. If you want us to vote, we'll be very happy to vote. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. No, no, no, And I thank you for your understanding. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miodrag Nikolic, Branko Ružić, Stefana Miladanovic, Gordana Comic, Mladen Grujic, Dubravka Filipovski. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on item 1 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CITY’S DEFENCE LAW Consent to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session of the Minister of Interior Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Milorad Todorovic, Assistant Minister of the Interior Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Natalija Pavlovic,Ivan Zarev, Head of the Department of Prevention Protection of the Ministry of the Interior, Đorđe Kardum, Assistant Head of Risk Management at the Emergency Sector, Tatjana Zeljković Babic, Head of the Department for Standard Affairs at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Jelena Đurić, Legal Advisor for Standard Affairs at the Ministry of Interior. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29643	Thank you. The PRECRET movement has submitted 12 amendments. We have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this Act, which is to ask that Articles 1 and 1 of the criminal provisions which this law should regulate, therefore, and the liability and criminal provisions for non-compliance with the members of this law, which we should adopt. In fact, the basic problem of this law is that neither the persons responsible for non-compliance under this law nor the penalties for it are known. Then we'll have the same situation as we've had so far, Mr. Minister, that we'll have a city or another elemental disaster, when it comes to this city law, and that responsibility will shift from one organ to another, or from one person to another. I'll use minutes of movement. So, on May 14th, there was huge damage in Ivanjica and Ariel. No one, Minister Stefanovic, was responsible for that. In both Ivanjica and Arilj, SNS is in power, and SNS is in power at the republican level. Here's what the president of the Ivanica municipality says, Mr. Zoric. He says - local self-government has acquired 192 missiles, however, anti-urban protection has not yet been activated, which should have been done by the competent republican authorities, so your ministry, Mr Stefanovic. You or someone from the ministry were supposed to answer why no specific funds were obtained for the shooters. How do you respond to Mr. Milomir Zoric's claims, which claims that you are responsible for the damage of over a billion and 200 dinars, and who will be responsible for this damage? Why didn't you accept this amendment? But first, to give an answer – will the people of the municipality answer or will you or someone from your ministry answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29644	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29645	Mr. Veselinovic said in his address that the president of the municipality said he had won the rockets. This fulfilled the obligation of the MUP, if you have read the legal acts correctly so far, which, I say, are not legally, since we are now the first time to pass, the 1992 law regulates this matter, is the obligation of the MUP to obtain missiles. As you yourself have said, to quote you, that is the obligation of the MUP to fulfill. Everything else you think, I expect you to take some legal action if you think something has not been done in accordance with the law. The Home Office did their job. As far as your amendment is concerned, there is no place where legal acts are done, no one ever begins with criminal provisions. It is always put at the beginning of what the law foresees, and it is now clearly put that it is responsible for both anti-building protection and through these acts or through the Ministry Act, which we will have a little later, that it is the RHMZ, the Republic institution, the institution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government established and with the help of the National Assembly, and that will be done with the will of the National Assembly, if the National Assembly so decides in the day of voting, entrusts the execution of these affairs. The responsibility will be on them, it will be on those who do this job and it is very clearly and precisely defined, and through other legal acts, through the Law on Local Self-Government, through laws that define agricultural land, the individual responsibility of other state authorities in this matter is defined. So there's no need to repeat and perverse this law. All this has been done in a very precise and clear way. All those who believe that they are damaged at any time always have the right to claim compensation for damages and in the administrative procedure, which is envisaged, may request that their right be met.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29646	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29647	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected to Article 1, and for all of those reasons that the Government has put forward in its reasoning, therefore in the light of its opinion, which also proposes that this amendment be rejected, which is that it does not comply with the law's nomotechnics. As you might have noticed, and as we could hear from the presentation of the motions of this amendment, this amendment does not treat the essence of the law. The essence of the law is, in my opinion, the fact that the minister just said that since 1992 we haven't had an adequately arranged area. It's a long period, a period that has caused great problems in the city's defence system, and what the proposer of this amendment has failed to tell us is what prevented them, him and his party, while they were in power, for years they were in power, to pass the law and to apply all those smart solutions that we're talking about here today? Who was stopping them? I think those are the questions we need to get answers to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29648	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29649	I thank you, the Honorable President of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I absolutely believe this amendment to Article 1. The law on defense against the city needs to be rejected. A very good explanation has been given. We heard the minister's argument, because it's not common for criminal measures and provisions to be found in the law. What I would like to point out this way is that the honourable MP, who is the promoter of this amendment, is not well informed. It's not that important, but let's just say the SNS isn't in power in Ivanjica. It's not that important, but just so you know about your information that the SNS is not in power in Ivanjica. What I did in the principle debate, the damages were great, the ministry did what it belonged to, gave rockets and local self-government got a lot of missiles and today President Zoric is in Belgrade and the damages we're talking about have been seen, the commissions have come out and today all the material is available to state authorities. Of course, agricultural producers expect to receive adequate payment of these damages. Once again, I should say on behalf of the citizens of the municipality of Ivanjica – we should not be defended by those who have brought down Ivanjica's economy, which is exactly the former regime. They also brought Ivanzica's intelligence into the raspberries and left people out of work. If there's anything you should have done in the last 20 years, you should have at least tried to have a defense law against the city. I believe this law is good and that in a much better way we will have protection against the risks and consequences of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29650	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29651	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, this is one in a series of amendments that we have been forced to endure for almost a year now, and these are amendments that we are trying to lecturing the texts that the government here has submitted and that we are harmonising with the standards and norms of the Serbian language and that termologically harmonize those laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is offering to us for adoption, probably thinking that they are quite good. Someone would say that these aren't important amendments, that we're dealing with some form, not essentially. The essence here is very simple. The point is that the Government in the Assembly sends us laws that speak exclusively of its surface, about the way it prepares these laws, and that is, after the examination and the way it applies them, and that is one big problem that we have to face more and more often. This amendment, which reads the law, shows that the law mentions an autonomous province, sometimes mentions autonomous provinces, once local self-government, once local self-government. You, Mr. Minister, at least a man of science, you're a doctor of science, you know how important termological alignment is in everything we do, how accurate precision is important. We thank you for accepting this amendment, but I do not know on which path the suggestion comes and asking the Government that these laws, which come into our assembly, be written in standard Serbian language, and in accordance with the rules of Serbian spelling, grammar of Serbian language, and that indeed someone in the government is watching these laws before they come to this Assembly, although we do not have a problem with them in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29652	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malovic... (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I'm sorry, I answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29653	Dear Minister, the President-in-Office, I wanted to report to this member and point out once again that the debate was held in principle a few days ago, where we were many times from the minister, and from Mr Babic, and from many other MPs, I heard that there was no law so far...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29654	Ambassador, if you can, talk about the amendment. It's okay, that's why I came back, but if it's gonna be what you said and we're gonna go back to the debate two days ago, I can't let that happen. So, do you have anything concrete about the correction in the spirit of the Serbian language, the body of autonomous provinces or the body of an autonomous province, then okay? If not, wait for another amendment that will fit your idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29655	I think it's a good thing the amendment was accepted. Our aim was to open the discussion and to coordinate the amendments in Article 1 and the proposal we made in Article 8. We essentially wanted to warn that this law was written in haste, that the mistakes that are here, in the 23 members that exist in the law, are obvious and inadmissible, and that it is very bad that this law did not go through a public debate. A month ago, you refused the bill that you wrote for months. It was a law that passed a public debate, it was supposed to be at the Ministry of Agriculture, and now you've proposed a new law very quickly, I think, just to take off responsibility from one organ and transfer it to another. These mistakes that appear here speak of the inconclusion of this government and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29656	The word has Minister Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29657	Unfortunately, it seems that neither previous nor this law has been read by an esteemed fellow MP. Because if he'd read it, he wouldn't have discussed it like that. First, the law passed a public debate, and if you had carefully read this bill, and the current law would have excluded those standards that oblige local self-government, no new obligation was imposed which was not in the previous bill. So that's absolutely not true what you said. The second thing, the Government gives its authority, which is set up to carry out certain tasks, a warrant. Secondly, the government will not decide for itself, but you will decide, the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly will give some authority authority to do something or not. This will be decided by the MPs of the National Assembly elected in democratic elections, in which Serbian citizens have given their trust to a group of people who believe they can lead Serbia in the best way. As far as these other objections are concerned, I really think since 1992 there's been so much time for wise, experienced, smart, brilliant, wonderful people to write it down, to go ahead and miss it. They weren't interested. They had more important things to do. These more important jobs are being questioned by my Ministry, among other things, and those who had had opportunities. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Which ministry? We're talking about anti-urban protection, so the Ministry I run.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29658	Please, Ambassador Sutanovac, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29659	These jobs are now being questioned by the Ministry that I run, some in detail, some in less detail, but we're doing it very intensively. They used to do, I mean, they started that work before I became a minister, and I see how much work it was, that they'd keep going, and when I'm no longer a minister. Anyway, they had so many opportunities to do this law, all the opportunities missed, absolutely irresponsible, and now they're transferring to us. We did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29660	Thank you (Jovan Marković, from town: Replica. I can give you the amendment, since you got the answer, without causing any further controversy. You want the amendment as authorized? No, thanks. Name a member. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: It's not a replica, but according to the Rules of Procedure.]] (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Article 104) I think I'm being misread. You're not misread. What you consider comments and decisions of the chairman, read the whole article. In order not to sanction it now, accept the Rules of Procedure as he is. Once again, do you want to speak according to the amendment? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) You said according to the Rules of Procedure, but it is an attempt to abuse because you have now quoted Article 104 that you consider yourself to be a replica, and I have explained why not. You don't want the amendment? (No) Then let us move on. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29661	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – Green Serbia submitted 11 amendments to this text of the law, of which four were accepted. I hope I can make it through today's debate to convince you to accept some more. In Article 2 relating to the basic provisions of this law, it stands, in the opinion of my parliamentary group, a word that is not suitable for this text of the law. It is said, among other things, that the city's defence system covers a set of measures and actions for planning, financing, organising and implementing methodological tasks related to radar detection and monitoring of storm-building decisions, determining the degree of urban danger and sowing of urban clouds etc. In our view, this word sounded raving, so we tried to adapt it to Serbian, so instead of saying "cityal", we suggest erasing this word and replacing it with the term "dangerous cityists". In the explanation I received, there was obviously a misunderstanding. The explanation that came from the government says - the amendment is rejected for reasons why urban and urban clouds cannot be synonyms. We didn’t even look for a synonym for the word “urban hazard. ” It further explains that there is a difference between urban and urban, both termological and factual. I totally agree with it being two different things. Urban clouds are such that there is a possibility of action on them, which would prevent or mitigate the effects of their operation, and if the timely action on them remains the same you are turning into city clouds with little chance that the fall of the city can be tempered. We suggest that, at the beginning of this sentence, instead of the word "gradoopsani", the term "dangerous city clouds", which is the same thing. Our MP group did not ask for a synonym for the word "urban danger", but we wanted to bring the text closer to an ordinary citizen. Minister Selakovic said a month ago, explaining one of his laws, that the government's tendency would be to propose laws comprehensible for everyone, for ordinary citizens, and I ask you to reconsider that. You're explaining that we're looking for a synonym. We didn't ask for synonyms, we were looking for adequate words that explain the word that seems to me to be like a coin of crosswords. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29662	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29663	Here's the thing. We've consulted the profession here, so we've consulted people who know more than me and you do, in that sense, because they've been doing it for years. What's the intensity? There is a difference between you here suggesting that the "urban dangerous" be replaced by the words "dangerous mayors", but you are thus indicating that they are mayoral. You're saying they're mayoral, they're not at that stage cityal, laymanically speaking. At that stage, they are able to be created in them, or to become mayoral. They're only able to become mayoral. If we had put – possibly urban or in the stage of building a city, it might be closer to the language, but we would have completely deviated from the terminology used in professional literature. We're simply trying to do something that will be in line with the profession, and I think that, I appreciate your effort, your good intention to get this close to ordinary people is the same thing to me when you're reading some law, so if people can't fully understand, but this is part of professional terminology. It's simple, it's the city's perilous cloud that defines itself in the profession, and it's our job to get that close to people. So, the city's perilous cloud is one that can become mayoral, due to the facts of anti-urban protection we try not to become.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29664	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29665	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected guests and guests from the ministry, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, is always a great pleasure when what the MP proposes becomes part of a law after the bill is passed. I would like to inform the MPs here that the New Party has submitted 12 amendments to these three draft laws, that of these 12 amendments, gentlemen, five amendments have been accepted. We consider it a success in our legislative work here. I want to use this occasion for one more piece of information, I think the MPs know it, but I don't think our guests from the MUP know it, too, and Minister Stefanovic, that in this year and two months, we have submitted, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Zoran Zivkovic and I, a total of 1,275 amendments. Of those 1275 amendments, gentlemen, 81 amendments have been accepted. Then I tried to transfer it to percentages, Minister Stefanovic. It is 6.35% and respected to Mr. and Minister Stefanovic and respected presidents, if, by some analogy, we transferred it to the support of the electoral body, it would mean that after a year and two months of work in this Assembly, dedicated work, hard work, that it has the support of the electoral body itself, 6.35% and you, Minister Stefanovic, seem to be helping us with this. I must tell the MPs and Minister Stefanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29666	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29667	... I'm using those five minutes, too. ... and respected guests and respected guests from the Ministry that our goal is not to stay at these 6.35%. Our goal, gentlemen, is, as I have repeatedly informed the MPs and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, 20%, gentlemen, in the next parliamentary elections. I see here a general approval for that kind of work and approach to acting in the National Assembly. Well done for the New Party, I understand that. This is the first note on this amendment to the bill of defense against the city, gentlemen. The other thing, and this is first and foremost one note to Minister Stefanovic, I understand the number of amendments accepted, Minister Stefanovic and as a kind of silent consent that the government has been inefficient in terms of defense from the city this year. In the principle debate, gentlemen, I reminded you here that the vegetative period during which the city's defence was needed from 15 April to 15 October and my opinion was, I think that every reasonable man thinks so, that we had to be prepared in this sense already on 15 April, and it has proved that we were not prepared and that is why I, Minister Stefanovic, are also very interested, but here also Mrs Milosevic, who comes from Ivanjica, invited citizens and citizens from Ivanjica and from Aryl very interested in this issue and very angry that we were not prepared to defend the city on 15 April. I was in that neighborhood after the town we had in mid-May. These people there have shown me these naked stems, desperate ones, and I have then decided, honored gentlemen, to inform the MPs from all the political groups from all the political parties in our assembly here, and also Minister Stefanovic and the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, that on Sunday I will go to Ivanjic and invite all the citizens of Ivanjica to talk from 20.00 a.m. until sunset to the center of Ivanjica and on this topic and see what their additional complaints are, which are objections and since we are here a very effective opposition, a very good, successful, worthy opposition, perhaps those citizens will be even more trusted, I think that they care about our work, respected gentlemen. So, Ivanica, Mrs Milosevic, too to record, it must be written somewhere, from 2:00 a.m. to sundown. It's June 21st, the longest day of the year. The third note, gentlemen, and here in particular I must tell Minister Stefanovic, not only is there, as I understand it, the silent consent of the government member that the government has been ineffective, but by not adopting one amendment to this bill on Article 23, as I recall, has announced that despite being aware of its ineffectiveness that it wants to preserve this ineffectiveness, because we have proposed, respected gentlemen, to shorten the period for the adoption of the rules that must be adopted after the adoption of this bill. We thought that people who deal with it should get three months to prepare those regulations. When the government orders and when we say three months must here, we confirm it in the Assembly, then it becomes the obligation of people who deal with it, and the government is in our position to explain why it will not accept our proposal that we all together, Mr Stefanovic, not just or me, but jointly directs us to efficiency, wrote – the amendment is rejected for the reason why the creation of conditions for full application of the law will certainly begin immediately and without delay. However, the adoption of the amendment opens up the possibility of breaking the prescribed deadlines. Dear Minister Stefanovic, we could then put on a year to make sure that some deadlines would not be broken. So we can't adapt to what someone's idea is for a deadline. For us, I think, the principle of efficiency for one government of our country must be one of the key principles, and when we discuss here, gentlemen, I also think about it, Mr Stefanovic, not silent consent but open consent in our debate, I mean, here we need to ensure. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29668	The promoter has an advantage. The word has Dr Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29669	Thank you. I would not agree with you if the government had been ineffective. The government is effective in a really large number of fields, than reducing deficits, which is all about this because it provides more significant resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. But she was really trying to find solutions that would be sustainable. Unfortunately, since 1992, we have no law, since 1968 we have anti-building protection, and we have had situations that, for example, only in one day and on 20 April 2009, we have damages of 47 million dinars in only one area where we have been planted crayons. According to the former MP I liked to talk to, Mr. Zahari Trnavcevic, his estimate is that the damage from the city in 2010 amounted to almost 100m euros. That's his assessment, I'm not getting into it, etc. It's not always possible, even with a huge anti-urban protection fact, to absolutely protect crops. What the Republic of Serbia has done before us today is the law, that is, the bill that I hope the National Assembly will adopt, which in a more serious way will provide financing, and, of course, make it more valuable for those people who need to bring sublaws. We'll talk about that amendment, but I suggest they start working from the moment of adoption hard and show everyone that the six-month deadline was too long and that they can do it in a month, two, two and a half months and show that they're really successful and effective. We've left enough time to prepare it. The anti-grader protection won't take it, and I hope they show that we were wrong when we gave them so long. But let me just tell you two things. As far as time goes, don't say you'll be talking to the citizens from 2:00 a.m. to sunset. You left the citizens for a very short time. That's about 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29670	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29671	... If it's measured by the percentages you've talked about on the amendments, imagine if the SNS parliamentary group compared the percentages of how long their laws passed when they were voted on, I think that percentage is somewhere near 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29672	The word is Maria Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29673	Thank you, Chairman. I will also follow this amendment and on these figures about what conclusions we need to draw, and there are different mathematicss that can lead us to the wrong conclusions. As my colleague Pavicevic usually says - I have three things to talk about, so I would like to say when it comes to these two draft laws, the proposal for a law on incendiary and fuel liquids, which we will later talk about and this bill on defence against the city, we will consider today a little less than a hundred amendments and the minister has decided to accept 34 amendments, which is indeed a significant number, but in no way, it does not say that the bill was bad, not precise enough, that it is written at speed because we have to talk about the essence. It is essential that only three or four amendments change the tone of that decision, which otherwise stands in the draft law, the minimum shift of the date, and all other amendments are legal-technical in nature mainly or make some minor changes. So, the content of the bill itself is not significantly changed by amendments, and I would not say good will, it is too free word, but the commitment and seriousness of the ministers and the MUP who have worked on the final adoption of the amendments, it speaks about why this number of amendments has been accepted. We have really worked very seriously in the previous days and in informal consultations that took place before the start of the debate on these bill proposals. A large number of MPs participated, and I think it is extremely commendable, is that it requires a little more effort, a little more time and energy for representatives of the ministry and MPs, but in any case it contributes to such a large number of amendments adopted. I think it is very important that we work together, and maybe that new way of introducing the practice Mr Sutanovac spoke about in the principle that it is good for the opposition and the position together to vote for certain bill proposals in the end, after a very detailed and useful and fruitful debate in the Serbian parliament. I, like Minister Stefanovic, would disagree with the need to associate the number of amendments adopted with your popularity in the electoral body, that sounds a little unserious, especially for you, counterpart Pavicevic. We always hear serious comments from you, but with that, I take it as a joke, I believe it was entertainment and viewers in homes. It is unserious to link the number of amendments adopted or even worse submitted amendments. You said 1,200 amendments you've submitted, and you have to say from that how many amendments are being made - they're being deleted. That's really unserious. You know, if we have one proposal and if we have about 200 amendments and you write 200 times is deleted, it doesn't take much effort and work. Then think, 130 MPs as many SNS times as 200 amendments now, which is the number and how we could link that to the popularity of the electoral body. They're not the relationships we should be dealing with when it comes to math. What I really like is that you're using free media free for this pre-election campaign, that's your resourcefulness, but it's not decent for parliament. In any case, I am looking forward to today's debate and I am glad that you have become very constructive in making amendments, you are taking the law in parliament very seriously. This has changed significantly compared to the previous way you worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29674	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29675	Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests from the MUP, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament. A distinguished colleague who is here, I do not know what mandate the MP has taken advantage of the opportunity to conduct a personal debate with Mr Pavic. I know perfectly well that Mrs. Obradovic knows that this cannot be done. I ask you, no matter what you have now sat down and have not followed, that this session is still in spirit with the Rules of Procedure and that you prevent this kind of thing, because the attempt to charm MPs, the public, the address personally to Mr Pavicevic, where he should now respond to his personal story, I do not think it leads to dialogue on the agenda. So there is no doubt that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, no doubt, and you were obliged to warn. Just don't tell me you didn't hear, see, because then it's really pointless, you can always change when something is going on here, so we can stay out of respect for the Rules of Procedure. Here MPs nod their heads, approve, even colleague Obradovic. So the Rules of Procedure of Defacto is injured, so since you are known as the man who utters warnings here, and when the Rules of Procedure is not harmed, then I ask you to react even when he is injured by a colleague of your parliamentary group, for which I have complete respect, but simply the Rules of Procedure is above our relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29676	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. I'm very pleased and pleasantly surprised that you have finally read the Rules of Procedure. Since you are someone who daily violates the Rules of Procedure, you have begun to advocate the respect of the Rules of Procedure, I am very pleased that we can finally welcome it in the Serbian Parliament. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) You can't answer that again, you know that very well. Mr. Sutanovac, please respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to give an explanation and I'm giving it right now, as you've concluded, we've just rotated at the chairman's post the moment you consider the Rules of Procedure to be broken. I'll take a stenogram and then I'll be able to say something. I'm sure there's nothing I can say right now. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. You can't, Mr. Shutanovac, again, I'm telling you you can't. Does anyone want a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29677	Dear Chairman, I would like to point out the violation of Rule 107, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29678	Mr. Markovicu, the 107th member has already been advertised. You have to call on someone else. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: You have broken it) Mr. Shutanovac, don't throw it away. Behave yourselves, this is not a circus but a high home of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29679	I would like to point out, Mr. Chairman, that several weeks and months ago and you and your colleagues have violated the Rules of Procedure on a regular basis...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29680	Mr. Markovic, have you called another member since you can't follow Article 107 because Mr. Sutanovac has already called for Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29681	Mr. Chairman, honestly, I'm asking you to allow me just two sentences to explain what I couldn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29682	I'll let you when you call another member, you can't go to article 107. I have to respect the Rules of Procedure if you don't respect him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29683	Mr. Chairman then calls on Article 108, and that is your obligation to take care of the order at the session. You may not be aware from that position in which you feel comfortable and comfortable of how much a violation of the Rules of Procedure not only direct discussions that are very bad and ugly, and which are much more loyal to the Assembly and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29684	Mr. Markovic, are you going to say how the Rules of Procedure got hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29685	I'm talking right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29686	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Is there anyone who wants to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? When the application is complete, Mr Pavicevic will be given the right to reply. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: A replica?]] The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29687	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I believe you've injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, when you first made it impossible for Dragan Sutanovac, and then for Mr Markovic to have one not advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, and for the other to call on Article 107. In that direction, would you please tell me where in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly it says that there is no advertising of the same member of the Rules of Procedure? Article 103 states that the MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly he has already pointed out. I don't know what words to explain, the session runs in some real time. This means that you can hurt Article 107, one of the MPs is advertising the injury of that member, you re-injure Members 107, some new injury, and where does the Rules of Procedure say that no member of the Parliament can point out that injury in your actions? Secondly, if you feel that the MP cannot point to the violation of the same member of the Rules of Procedure, please tell me in your opinion, since it certainly does not say in the Rules of Procedure, how long does this ban take? After what time, is it five minutes, 10, 15 minutes, the next day? When can one of the MPs again advertise an 107 that was now at stake? If you are unable, I will certainly address the committee responsible for interpreting the Rules of Procedure to say where the Rules of Procedure says that the same member of the Rules of Procedure cannot be advertised?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29688	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Ms. Jerkov, you have been a folk MP for a long time and you know very well, especially your colleague Mrs. Comic has spoken of this many times. You also have a member of 103, where it is said - an injury committed at a session of the National Assembly that is under way, and if directly after her injury is reported by someone, the MP cannot point to the injury and conduct of the president of the National Assembly that has already been pointed out. So, the member that's already been pointed out. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: It is the same member... ) Miss Jerkov, if you interpret the Rules of Procedure differently from your colleague, Mrs Komic and other MPs, you will have to do so, just as you said, through the Committee on Administrative Affairs or through the committee in charge to simply discuss it. Do you want the Assembly to plead, Miss Jerkov? (Yes) Thank you. The word is Mr. Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29689	I just want you to read again what you started talking about. So the MP can't point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure he's already pointed out. So, I just called to point out that the Rules of Procedure was in violation of the session when Mrs. Obradovic spoke personally. After that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29690	Not an apparition, but an indication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29691	Thank you, sir, you're a man of science, I hear you're about to doctor, so here you teach us grammar... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29692	Mr. Sutanovac, thank you. Mr. Sutanovac, it's not a topic. Please simply report and explain why you consider me as the Chairman to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and do not use this as a replica. You know how you get the right to a replica. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. I just thought you'd set out to respect the Rules of Procedure in the same way as the other MPs do. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29693	Mr. Becic, you're the first among the equals here right now. Just because you flaunt with me and abuse the position you're in doesn't mean you're right. So you just insulted me by realizing that I finally read the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, what gray mass of brain bark did you conclude, and what part did you conclude earlier that I had read the Rules of Procedure? It's an insult to me, and it may not be for you. When I tell you that you're a man of science who prepares a doctorate, it's an insult to you. Well, it's an insult to all of us together here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29694	Mr. Sutanovac, go ahead. It's no problem. When you talk about me, you can talk as much as you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29695	You just took my word and you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29696	Is there anything else you want to say, Mr. Schutanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29697	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29698	No, go ahead, I encourage you to keep talking about me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29699	But it's not your job. It's not your job to encourage MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29700	Mr. Sutanovac, if I say you can't talk about it, you say you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29701	Yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29702	When I tell you to talk about it, you get angry again. I don't know how to communicate with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29703	Now I'm already feeling a dose of nervousness that causes me to get scared. When you start yelling, you understand, from that position, we MPs here think who knows what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29704	I'm not yelling at all, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29705	How come you're not yelling? There's no need. I mean, I'm not saying you're yelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29706	Mr. Sutanovac, you are a man who is known to throw, who does not allow the debate to be conducted properly in the National Assembly, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29707	Mr. Becic, if I were to say... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29708	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: to finish only.) Mr. Sutanovac, I'll be forced to give you a warning. It's no longer worth communicating with you. Thank you. Has anyone reported from the A.R.'s injury? (Yes) Mr. Markovic, what member? Since you want to obstruct the work of the National Assembly and do not want to have a debate on the agenda, I will have to strictly apply the Rules of Procedure from this moment on, Mr Markovic. Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away. You're throwing, Mr. Shutanovac, all the time. Please behave properly in the National Assembly. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29709	Dear Chairman, I call on article 107. The Rules of Procedure and I ask you only one sentence to hear me. All the time we've been trying to explain that the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr. Sutanovac paid attention to all of us, was made by the previous speaker, or Mrs. Obradovic. Later all we've been trying to prove to you is about your violation of the Rules of Procedure by the same member. It is not possible to prohibit us if one replica or one communication with each other is completed in the violation of one member of the Rules of Procedure, if you do another breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is not normal to prohibit us from talking about it. That's what we want to explain to you all the time. We don't think it's right...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29710	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. To continue in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, I must give you an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29711	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29712	Please listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29713	Please, I have called for dignity in article 107. So, for days, I can't come... (Jovan Markovic, from place:... [[Disabled microphone.]] to explain what's going on with the Rules of Procedure's injuries, and that's not right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29714	It's okay, Mr. Markovic, because you say that Mrs. Obradovic has committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, she has done a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Jovan Markovic, from the city: Ali confessed. ) Mr. Markovicu, Ms. Obradovic cannot do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. He can only act as chairman if he did not respond in time to the presentation of the speaker or the one who presented himself in the National Assembly, unless in time he prevented that breach of the Rules of Procedure from being done. So, Mr. Markovic, I've already given an explanation that at that moment I wasn't chairman, that I couldn't know what happened and that I'd look at the stenogram, but you wouldn't let me look at the stenogram and see if there was an injury. If it's done, if I estimate it's done, I'll react. Let the debate continue in the National Assembly on a law that is on the agenda. Mr. Markovic, I beg you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: But in your address to Mr Sutanovac, you have again injured the Rules of Procedure. That's what this is about. Mr. Sutanovac can defend himself, you don't have to be his lawyer, Mr. Markovic. Thank you. Does anyone want to do the agenda? The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29715	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Obstruction is a kind of political struggle, legitimate, but obstruction and an indication that amendment promoters actually have no fundamental objection, so they use the Rules of Procedure only to stop some processes in the National Assembly. It's bad when we turn to insult. It's bad when we go into demeaning. It's bad when someone is commenting on a potential doctoral or any other work. I guess he learned that during his 12 - year study, where he studied more demeaning and insulting than he did on the agenda. But I also appeal to the People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, I appeal to the other MPs, and I appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, if Mr. Stefanovic could come here with his associates and wait patiently for the debate on the proposed agenda, if the citizens of Serbia who are looking at the sky today are going to be clouds that will bring them the city and take the harvest, and we are going to talk here about hurting the Rules of Procedure and whether someone is so silk and doesn't answer him that a very correct colleague in his performances, such as Marija Obradovic, is allowed to address him in such a way if he addresses himself. I ask you, as well as other colleagues and colleagues, let us talk about the agenda point, let us talk about what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has come here today to say, what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect us to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29716	I thank you, Mr. Granny. I am not offended by those who have destroyed Serbia for 12 years. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (No) I thank you. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Pavicevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Bečić, Minister Stefanovic, respected guests and honored guests, I have the right to replication, I think, Mrs Obradovic and one part Mr Stefanovic. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Obradovic for reminding all the MPs and citizens of our Republic that the New Party has submitted 1275 amendments for these years and two months, 81 of which have been adopted, which is 6.35%. Of course, I'm doing some associations here, and I'm transferring it to one analogy and support in the electoral body, and now we can discuss whether it makes sense, to what extent it makes sense, etc. Let me just say to Mrs. Obradovic that we have "cleared out" amendments every time we thought we were discussing a bill that is irreparable and that the amendments "wipe out" wanted us to cancel. It's a legitimate thing. We seem very consistent, respected gentlemen, Mr Becic, just to hear and Mrs Obradovic, and to remind the MPs of the SNS that two of our amendments are "wipes" accepted, honored gentlemen. Minister Stefanovic, Mrs Tabakovic, in one of our discussions here, gentlemen, accepted two amendments to the New Party that read "expunge". I accept the suggestion of Minister Stefanovic, in Ivanjica I will be from 20 hours until sunset, but on Saturday 20th of June in the centre of Cačka, respected citizens, from 18.30 hours to sunset I speak to the citizens, respected gentlemen, to extend the time and that it may last for several hours after this experience we have in Čačka and Ivanjica, honored gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29718	Mr. Pavicevic, please. Does anyone want the agenda, the amendment to speak? The replica wants who? Please, I have registered: Ms. Marija Obradovic, Nevenko Milosevic, Nadica Nikolic, Veroljub Matic, and Mr. Jovan Markovic. Who wants the amendment? (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You're not giving up, are you, Mr. Markovic? Mr. Markovic, I'm taking a five-minute break. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I explain? ) It's not worth it, because you don't want to continue the debate on the agenda. You want obstruction in the National Assembly. I won't let you do that. You can't, Mr. Markovic. Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: It is not up to you to comment on how much anyone has ruined Serbia. Mr. Stefanovic, don't get the chairman. Mr. Stefanovic, you weren't in the O.R., don't throw away the chairman. (Borislav Stefanovic throws out of place. Mr. Stefanovic, don't throw it away. We're going back to work. [[after breaks]] The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Obradovic. Did you give up? (Maria Obradović, from town: I give up. ) National MP Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29719	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for replicas because I've been mentioned by name and last name, and Ivanica has been mentioned most times today. So I want to say that, of course, all the MPs are welcome in Ivanjica, I invite them to come to Ivanjica, but as far as solving the problem in Ivanjica is concerned, there is someone to solve these problems. What you're talking about is 6%, you were, you'll see, I don't think even six citizens are coming. It's raspberries season now. As a national MP from Ivanjica, I know best the problems of the citizens of Ivanjica municipality, I regularly receive citizens in my office and I know quite well what the problems are. Citizens of Ivanjica, on the contrary, and in order to be happy to have ministers from the government, and above all our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. Then we'd have a lot to talk about, a lot of problems. I thank you for coming to Ivanjica, and we will document how many people will be at that rally. That's what I'd like to say on behalf of the citizens of my community.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29720	Thank you. The word has a national message, Nadica Nikolic Tanasijević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29721	Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I think it was immaterial to submit such an amendment, but since he has been given such importance by distinguished colleagues Mr Pavicevic and Mr Zivkovic, I must also say a few words. It is obvious that there is only one written error here, or error in typing the text of the amendments, but it is even more obvious that respected colleagues are using each and every one of them, even the slightest opportunity for their own personal promotion, as well as the promotion of their own minor party. I think, looking at the proposed amendments by distinguished colleagues, that most of them refer only to verbal, spelling and grammatical errors. I also think that this time they ran out of creativity and inspiration, and I believe and know-how, when it comes to the bill, because agriculture is obviously not their strong suit. But to return to the amendment itself. I can also see some reason why this amendment has been submitted, and it is visible in a common common folk proverb that reads – the strangler is also held by straw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29722	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. To whose exhibition, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: At the presentation of the previous pay phone, the name and last name I was mentioned. ) You're mentioned by name and last name? Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29724	Of course, exposure to the predecessor does not deserve any consideration or waste of words, but it would be good for the Member of Parliament to be informed of what the work of the MPs is. The MPs are authorized to write amendments to the draft laws. Apparently, the lady is not familiar with the fact that the amendment has been adopted. This means that the competent ministry, the Serbian government, estimated that the amendment was allowed from the constitutional and legal sides and that it was necessary to bring the text to the level of readability in Serbian, which is the official language in this country. It would also be good to inform the Member of the Parliament that anti-urban protection has nothing to do with agriculture. Agriculture, so far and so far, is something that is protected by anti-urban protection, but only action, the procurement of funds, the training of shooters, has nothing to do with agriculture. It's something that may have more to do with rocket technology, military technology, meteorology, but it certainly has nothing to do with agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture does not sit here, nor are these boys in uniform farmers, nor are these respected ladies agronomies. Generally, this panic fear that now leads to the fact that even MPs and MPs who have never reported to the word were tasked with saying little of their bile to the New Party cheers me up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29725	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29726	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is truly amazing to me that we have spent so much time on a single amendment that treats one letter, so in a literal sense of that word, one letter. And it is amazing to me that the proposer of this amendment who has taken over the role of the on-call lecturer, which is not bad in itself, but there is no need for some leniency now, there is no need for some epic stories about the hard work of his party, and because of Serbian citizens, I just want to read this amendment. The amendment reads - in the Proposal for a Law on Defence against the City in Article 3 at point 12, the word “effects” is replaced by “effects”. So it's one letter. There was a small mistake, and he's doing it and he's wrong. We now have minutes and minutes of discussion, praises, that I do not know what hard work sacrifice and dedication some MPs have devoted to correcting this one literal mistake, one letter is in question. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I had to read, that everyone, that no one simply has any doubt about how hard work was. Everyone in their right mind will accept this amendment, but there's no need now for some epic stories, and I really want to appeal to everyone to get back to the normal course of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29727	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP Nadica Nikolic – Tanasijević, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29728	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word one more time and I must say that I absolutely know my job, what my job is, what is the job of the other MPs. But I must also say that one who is not on his shoulders and on his skin felt what suffering means, misery, which is also the trouble that has been caused by a time-problem such as the city cannot be invited to talk about this subject. I also have to say that I was born in the country, that I grew up in a rural family that has been back in agricultural production for decades and that I can absolutely talk about this. Once again, I mention that I grew up in the country, in my orchards, not in some imaginary pastures and vineyards.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29729	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29730	Thank you, Chairman. The government has accepted this amendment, and this is the first victory, the first success of the PRECRET Movement, but both the citizens of Serbia and you, Mr Stefanovic, and you are a citizen of Serbia, I suppose a loyal and good citizen of Serbia, however, I do not mind saying that you are not a good minister and that the consequences of this work that has happened to your inaction, i.e. your Ministry, we can tell Mr Stefanovic, i.e. you are saying that this is the responsibility of the Izvanica Municipality. You said your Ministry wasn't responsible. Missiles weren't fired, there were no shooters. Who's responsible? Am I responsible? Is she responsible for a colleague who just spoke, said she was born in the country and knew all about agriculture? Is she responsible for this? Or is no one responsible? That is precisely why this amendment, which we have submitted several amendments to, is to define exactly who is responsible, which persons and what penalties will be punished if they do not act, because a billion and 200 dinars of damage from the city is not small money, Mr Stefanovic, not for any state, and not for Serbia that is poor. This is why this is a success that you have accepted to in some way prevent someone from hiding in terms of his responsibility by saying that the responsibility is due to respecting the legality of natural processes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29731	Mr. Veselinovic's time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29732	I'm using the time I still have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29733	You can't, Mr. Veselinovic. You can take one to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29734	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29735	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing the government has accepted this amendment, I'd just like to explain something. So, Article 4 speaks of the principles of the city's defence system, so one part relating to the principle of scientific foundation and economic justification of defence against the city says – population and property are protected from the city by methods that are scientifically based on respect for the legality of natural processes and the protection of natural values as well as the economic justification of this protection. We thought that this term "protection of natural values" was somehow not appropriate, so we suggested, to me, a more adequate, more precise term, which is – the environment. I thank the Government once again for having heard of the good will of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS, and adopted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29737	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29738	Dear President, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted to this bill a total of seven amendments, thank the Government for accepting three amendments, but one of the key amendments is this amendment to Article 5 and it says that the entities of the defence system are the authorities of the state administration and the authorities of the unit of local self-government. What does that mean exactly? Dear Minister, I have already said in the principle debate at this tide, that it is absolutely unnecessary for the authorities of the AP Vojvodina to be inserted into the law, because I don't see what they would do. From World War II to here until 1992, we had more laws from the former republics, from Yugoslavia, when even then the autonomous provinces were and I have to say a kind of state, they never participated in the anti-urban protection system. I have also set an example for the surrounding countries that are also in the EU, but all levels of government are not covered by the Anti-Build Protection Act, a concrete example of the Republic of Croatia. What Mr. Minister in our people says when there's a lot of midwives, a snotty child. The essence of this law is that the law should be unique, that the law should be effective and that what colleagues have already said is known, if an accident occurs, who is responsible if the system fails. We, Mr. Minister, have now in the system indisputable is the state we have local self-governments that have jurisdiction and unfortunately, I am being inserted into an entire member, and that is a member of the 8th, and an autonomous province is being inserted. I have to remind the citizens, but also because of fellow MPs that we in the anti-building protection system don't only have shooters, laser stations and missiles that are necessary for the system to work, we already have radar centres that are the most important segments, if I may say this system. I mentioned two days ago in the principle debate that the central part of the forest, meaning the move from Kragujevac, Topola, Arangelovac, was hit by the city in 2014 precisely because of the failure of the Bukulje radar centre. If I may remind myself that we have a Fruska Gora radar centre that coordinates all the radar centres in Serbia and that, if for any reason, would deny any radar centre in Serbia that co-ordinates the work of the shooters can't respond adequately. I can assume that, thank God, the AP organs will function in the coming period, but I would remind myself that there is no need for, apriorius, the attributes of statehood to be given to the authorities of the AP in this law. Neither I personally nor the party I belong to have anything against the AP. They are clearly defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but it does not need to go to something that I believe is completely unnecessary and excessive in this law, because everything provided for by Article 8 where the competencies of the AP are placed, the authorities of the state administration and the authorities of local self-government can already do so, and if it is necessary in a certain way to help finance the system where it is needed and the AP, it can be done through local self-government. So I think, once again, this law needs to be clear, it needs to be effective. The city's defense system has no need to spread now to something that's never been absolutely since World War II over here. That is why I once again ask the Members of Parliament to support this amendment. I am pleased, yesterday on the Security Committee, of the nine members present, four members voted to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29739	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word after the amendment? (No) I thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: I applied for the previous amendment to Article 6, I was in the system, but something was wrong with the system. I know you weren't in the system, but no problem. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac, if you care to explain your amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29740	Mr. Becic, I'm not in your system. It's nothing new. I signed up, but I don't know why she didn't respond to the MP's unit. Article 6 is, in fact, the essence of this whole law, and in order to be able to analyze this law, I will try to get that member or the whole law, to bring you back just a few years, and I am sure that Serbian MPs sitting here know what it is, because they were also accomplices to something we did and what turned out wrong today. Namely, the Emergency Administration of the then MUP and then the Department of Emergency in the Ministry of Defence joined at the time at the request, the insistence of then-Minister of Interior, Mr Dacic. I was against it myself. I also felt that Serbia, given that it has no capacity, has an emergency ministry, such as in the Russian Federation, that Serbia should think, and I am sure that in this direction, sooner or later, whatever the arguments given in the rejection of our amendment, which say that, I mean, the formation of a new body, or the agency as an amendment, would require significant financial resources, which we do not think is true, and it is said that the amendment is being rejected - especially given that there are already bodies in the system of state administration that can effectively exercise competences in this area. So we're in the system of state administration, as far as I know, and believe me, I know, practically all the organs that can deal with it, exhausted, RHMZ has already done it, right? Then in 2011, I say, again, to the insistence of your coalition partner, Mr. Minister, we transferred that thing to the Emergency Sector. The emergency sector has been doing this thing for several years, it turns out that it's not the level of quality needed and today we're returning that thing back to RHMZ, with the desire to do it again to someone who, in 2010 and 2011 respectively, concluded that it can't work very well. That is why the Democratic Party goes ahead, if there are emergency agencies in certain countries of Europe or America, we believe that this is a good solution for Serbia as well. At one point, a fellow MP told me there was a danger that the emergency sector would be overcome by a police directorate. So, it's an anecdote, it's not that bad, but the fact is that a very large part of that job, the Ministry of the Interior, has fallen into emergency situations, and that's not the essence of police work or home affairs, because I'm sure Mr. Minister that you are aware yourself that this is a lot of time for you in relation to those needs that Serbian citizens need. Today, it's a full year since the MUP has no appointed head of the criminal police administration. In the meantime, we boast the result of being brought in by customs and police officers, all in line with the amendment, which I completely understand. Some even found chocolate. A judge with 1700 euros in bribes has been detained, whether or not we will see it in the trial. The police are breaking into nightclubs. There's nothing there on several occasions. It's even happening that the place is closed before the police get here, so the bar says it's closed because of the raid, and it's all, among other things, because obviously the top of the MUP doesn't devote enough time to the problems it needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29741	Mr. Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29742	... in emergency situations...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29743	Mr. Sutanovac, it's not on the agenda of the Police Act, but you know what's on the agenda. I'm only asking you to comply with this amendment. Please limit yourself to the explanation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29744	I'm saying, all this is happening because the top of the MUP, to repeat a sentence that you haven't heard, is not dealing with the essential problems that exist, but is dealing with problems that don't have to, and I say there are, if you're going to take a Russian model, there's a special ministry, if you're going to be an American model, there's an agency, in Europe too. It is our advice that no matter how much you have to refuse this amendment, as well as everything else, but this you accept full responsibility, that you do not say first that you did not cover the legal basis for work even before the 1990s, etc., we have been protecting ourselves from the city even more successfully than in the last years at that time, to consider the course of forming an agency that would deal with these affairs. The explanation you gave is too much, if we look at Serbia in two, three, five or six months, Serbia will be after us and it was before us. So we think that this thing needs to be seriously analyzed and I'm drawing attention, because I was against it in 2010, or in 2011, I'm not taking responsibility in any way, but on the other hand, the people who worked on it now are working on it to change it and to go back. So, I think you should have been aware that with these problems, you're going to come up with one system solution that's going to be comprehensive, comprehensive, and it won't change anymore, because I'm sure in what we're doing today, we're going to sit here in some other majority very quickly, hopefully, and we're going to discuss the same problem again, it doesn't matter how much Dr. Stefanovic, it happens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29745	Mr. Sutanovac, don't flaunt with the minister. I'm asking you to finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29746	Don't beg me, I have as much time as I want to have. It means I have all the time of the parliamentary group. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29747	I beg you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, speak of the amendment, and if you do not know which amendment, I will read it to you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29748	Don't waste my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29749	You've been given your word even though we've moved on to the second amendment and you're now trying to conduct a political debate here about the police and a lot of things, not an amendment that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29750	I express great regret that you, Mr. Chairman, do not understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29751	I understand very well what you're saying, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29752	You took all of my minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29753	I understand very well what you're talking about and that's why I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29754	So I'm leading the controversy with the minister, because the minister throws it to me, so I answer to him, otherwise I address the minister, from this position, because I'm authorized to speak by amendment. So, I think that the legal solution that is before us today is not comprehensive and comprehensive. I don't think they're gonna bring out those citizens who are interested in this problem from the problem the way we could have done it. I think this could have been done much better, and I think that the authority you have can use to do one law that will take a step back from the time we live in, to form an agency that will be independent, which will not be subordinated to a minister and which will be able to act in these situations much, much more quality. If I were malignancies, I'd say we could use airships in this situation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29755	Mr. Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29756	Because we did a study at the Department of Defense...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29757	Mr. Sutanovac, don't, I'm asking you not to make me apply the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I am not responding, you are saying that you are authorized by this, you are not authorized in front of the DS, Mr. Jovan Markovic has been authorised, you are only one of the applicants of the amendment and you, by the Rules of Procedure, must speak in accordance with the tabled amendment. In a way, we are trying to tolerate what you are doing, but you are simply going to the extreme by insulting other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29758	I am according to this amendment. No, I'm not insulting anyone, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29759	Please, do you want to speak further by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29760	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29762	So, there's a study at the Department of Defense that can be used to protect the city, not to say what would bother you. So there's one study that's been done, I'm sure, for the G4 jet tanks, as far as I know. Check it out. There's a problem with that because of the open sky, the co-operation with the neighbors, etc., but in my view, and by us, it requires a much more serious approach to this problem, because we're going to meet here at some point in the future, to talk again about the problems that peasants have with the city. This was all well-intentioned, I'm sorry Mr. Becic has no patience to hear. So, all this is said in a desire not to argue, this is the second time today. So, in 2011, it was the first time, now it's the second time, besides you Mr. Minister sitting here, the more or less people sitting around you were the same, all witnesses of this event, I'm telling you, then I said it was bad, I'm telling you and now, he's not a complete solution, and if in any way you're getting rid of the problems you have, but farmers aren't getting rid of. Consider this a well-intentioned advice. Okay, we accept, we were in power in 2011, our parliamentary majority passed that law to insist on our coalition partner, too, but this is now less important, I think it's still not too late to access something that would be much more celibate for the problem we're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29763	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Dr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29764	I really can't say that I often take on our coalition partners' defenses, but right now I really have to say that this thing with the SPS and Ivica Dacic had nothing to do with it, nor did Ivica Dacic, as minister, wanted to take anti-building protection within the Ministry of the Interior, nor was it useful for the Ministry of the Interior, nor was it good for farmers. It was imposed on the then government. At the time, the ruling majority of DS decided to put anti-building protection in an institution that is nowhere in the world to deal with anti-urban protection. Why? Because then RHMZ, a member of the DS, wanted to escape his responsibility in this, and then, through cost rationalization, first these 200 people who are working at the Ministry of the Interior put away to hire 484 new people. So, a wonderful increase in jobs through rationalization. Then let's get the data that RHMZ bought 13,600 rockets in 2008 so that in 2011, the government of the Republic of Serbia, then, has allocated the money for 3,500 rockets for the MUP. It's this perfect, wonderful, amazing concern for citizens, agriculture and all of this. You know, there's no moral basis when you've been sitting in one government for years and you've been doing it like that for years and no one's telling you in public that these people are now dating later. It just doesn't, this government doesn't believe in that kind of thing. It's just, when you had the chance you didn't fight, I'm aware that one day the SNS will have to go into opposition, maybe I won't wait for it, but it will welcome some generations. In any case, then we'll remember all the good and bad things, we won't say what we failed to do in our mandate, and we did differently, and now you have to do so, no. Who has a chance from the citizens to fight, to show what they can do, to show it when they don't use it, to do it differently and to do it all the other way, then the opposition has a right, of course to say whatever they want, but I'm not sure the citizens will ever believe it. Anyway, then we'll remember all the good things and the bad things, we won't say what we failed to do in our mandate, and we did differently, and now you have to do so. No, I don't. Whoever has a chance from the citizens to fight to show what he can do should show it. When he doesn't take advantage of it and does it differently and he does it all the other way, then the opposition has the right of course to say what he wants, but I'm not sure the citizens will ever believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29765	I thank Dr Stefanovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Mr. Sutanovac, do you want a replica? You have no right to a replica. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, "How am I not entitled?" ) Mr Sutanovac, the DS has been mentioned and can replicate the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, that is Mr Markovic. You're not an authorised representative... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I was misread.) I can't interpret it. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I'll say it.) It's not enough what you say, according to the Rules of Procedure, I estimate it. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I answer the word. Mr. Granny, do you want to? (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. Here you are, after the amendment. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: How can that be so? You ask me why I respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? How can you do that? I'm right... ) You are entitled to the amendment, Mr Sutanovac, to report again after the amendment and you can speak, but you do not have the right to reply because the only one who has the right to reply is an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "No, but to me... ) So, I'm not gonna let your MP group speak, but I'm just respecting the Rules of Procedure and saying that you don't have the right to reply because of the mention of DS you, but the authorised representative. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: The minister has moved with me, not with the MP group. ) Mr. Sutanovac, if the chairman would interpret everyone's exposure, each MP's and every debater in the National Assembly... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Ask the minister. ) I can also now say that you did not interpret what the minister was saying well and that you do not have the right to reply. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "Let me say it." I thank you. There's a word from MP Zoran Babic. Here you go. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I have already answered the word... ) You have reached out to Mr. Markovic, but I have already given my word to Mr. Babic, but I will have the respect that you have the right to reply and you will receive after Mr. Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29766	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, if you've finished this chat. If I wanted to be maliced, and I didn't, I could say that a respected colleague during his 12-year studies had time to learn to say "airplane" correctly. I, you know, finished my college for twice as much time, so I was in a hurry, so maybe I couldn't learn to say things right... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: you couldn't in a month. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29767	Please, Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29768	But I don't want to be maliced, after all, my lapus is much more benign and per citizen of Serbia harmless compared to various financial laps, various Witch squares, various marriquettes of the former regime, but I am also using this opportunity to apologize for my mistake, my lapus and my apology, but for those who have abused their position by getting rich, I haven't heard an apology either to the judicial authorities, but the most important apology that must be directed to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that politically having told them and sent them into political retirement is not enough for the level of damage done both to the citizens of Serbia and to the whole Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party will not support the amendment. The reason is very clear, and he was also described in an explanation, which is why the government also rejected this amendment. Instead of forming a variety of agencies, instead of a variety of bureaucrats, however much professional they are, I think it's more necessary to use that money to modernise the radar system, to monitor the city clouds, that it's much smarter and more useful to use those funds to buy rockets, to use those funds to modernise the launch stations for financing as many people as possible who will fire those missiles and fire them. That the use of both ultimately and for the damage that the city is doing to the crops in Serbia, rather than which we are now going to form agencies, make new bureaucracy, create new systems, make something that Serbia's citizens will not benefit directly from. I think the RHMZ has quite enough capacity and expertise and personnel to carry all this out and against any formation of new agencies and new commitments and on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But what's most dangerous, regardless of these remarks, there were and there will be them, but what's very dangerous, I'm talking about the amendment much more than some predecessors did... What is very dangerous is a sentence that was just said -- why was the judge arrested for a bribe of 1,700 euros? I don't know if it's 1,700 or 17 or 170 or I don't know how much. Does this mean that there's a price in bribery for DS, in corruption, so you know, 1,700 euros, it's for lunch, it's not a bribe? One euro is a bribe, unless you prescribe a price list. I'm asking you to go out with that pricer. That's why we're here right now. Because of this pricer, bribery and corruption have been enjoyed in our society. Because of that price list of yours, we were in the fight against corruption in 2012. Do you know how dangerous it is when a MP from the National Assembly's pay phone says, "Why did you arrest someone for a 1,700-euro bribe?" The DS received a reward of 1,700 euros, or a scrawny why so much. Say, go out and say, we have a price list, so what is the prize for, for which is a round of applause, for which may be a place in the presidency of the DS. These are things that are very dangerous to support the taking of bribes here and even more dangerous to enter into investigative operations. How can one MP know if someone has been arrested for a bribe of 1,700 or how much of it has been found, as far as they suspect? With what right do we make this room a courtroom? Well, a former colleague gave himself the role of defense attorneys, but the arguments are very thin. Mr Stefanovicu, the SNS supports your sincere struggle, which is manifested daily and when people who are not members of any party are brought in and when members of DS and SNS and SPS are brought in, in crime and those who are involved in crime have no protection behind any color membership card, no familiarity. You either took a bribe, or you worked fair. It's the only question that has to be asked in our society and here. Results are also known in the fight against drug trafficking. The results the police showed during the controls and rafts, as well as other facilities, are well known. The results are well-known that you discovered the perpetrators of the crimes that occurred seven, eight, ten years ago, when it was very difficult to detect...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29769	Mr. Granny, just get back to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29770	The results of the MUP under your leadership and with your team are visible and for SNS you have support and just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29771	Thank you. The word has been made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29772	Dear Chairman, I probably shouldn't even say why I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure. Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under discussion. We here, instead of the city law, are talking about everything that is not on the agenda and everything that you allow because it is spoken by the MPs of your parliamentary group. Mr. previous speaker... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29773	Mr. Veselinovic, that's enough, I understand you think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I have two minutes to explain. ) Up to two minutes. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Up to two minutes, means not over two. ) Read the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veselinović. When you say something in two minutes, you don't have to talk for two minutes. It's enough for you to explain to the chairman what makes you think he's the one who broke the Rules of Procedure. As you can see, I reacted, I warned the gentleman who said I thought he should return to the amendment. The presentation is complete. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. Yes, thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, you have the right to speak, but I would ask you, since Mr. Markovic had the right to reply before I gave my word to Mr. Babic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29774	Dear Mr Minister, the Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I think it is a very important question that we have raised about the name of the authority that will be responsible and that will deal with all these affairs in the coming period, because of the opposing opinions and attitudes concerning this proposal. What Mr. Sutanovac has explained is one of the ways he thinks we can solve this whole problem. What is very important to point out in this discussion, what I would like to ask both Minister Stefanovic and all MPs to clarify, in an explanation, Mr Stefanovic, the reasons for this law, it is said – it is true that decisions from 1992 have suspended the application of the law from that period and that decisions on ministries have been passed on to the Republic Institute. It is also explained that in 2011, a law was passed that treats this area. You've been on the subject for days, especially here in the debate, that there is no law. Both Mr. Babic and all the other MPs are always talking about the fact that this activity was completely out of the law. You made the point that someone didn't think about people, about citizens, and exactly what happened in Serbia on May 14th and these weeks and months behind us tell us how unconscious you really were that the law existed, how unable you were to organize services, how you didn't apply existing laws. You came here with the idea that someone else was responsible for allegedly not having laws, and all MPs talk about it like they didn't read the material.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29775	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29776	Can I just finish the sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29777	Here, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29778	The essential question here, dear Minister, is that if you imposed the subject that the law did not exist, so how is it possible that the state has acted in the past several years on this matter?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29779	Thank you. I gave you a second to finish the sentence. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29780	This, of course, is not true. Since 1992, there has been no law on protection against the city. If there is one, show me where, which is the official messenger, which number. When was the city's protection law passed? (Jovan Marković, from town: Year 2011) In 2011 was the city's protection law passed? Where does it say? Come on, please, we need to be serious. There's a law on how the law is passed. The National Assembly had to decide. Show me the "Official Messenger" and the number of the "Official Messenger" where it was declared a statement by the President of the Republic of the Law on Protection from the City. So he wasn't there, because he wasn't there. As far as this is concerned, I have to say that one whole story is a complex replacement of thesis. It doesn't take emergency situations to deal with prevention, because then it's the same thing as if you gave the Emergency Sector to build roads to prevent the slides or to build embankments to prevent the spilling of rivers. Then the institution would take over all the jobs in the country to prevent everything from happening. She'd have to run the power plant in order to stop the power system from jumping off the grid to stop it from going on fire. In that way, if it was arranged, then that sector or agency or whatever you want would be all-powerful. This should be done by an institution that monitors the hydrometeorological forecast. I'm not going to answer specifically, just to tell Mr. Babic, to add one more thing to him because I think he's on a good track, and I just wanted to go along with this case of high corruption, which is now being done in the country in a way that's enough evidence, to hand it over to the prosecution, then the court of course decides who's guilty or not, but it's done in a very serious and responsible way and we're showing that no one will be protected by uniforms or badges, as we showed it when we brought in 29 police officers caught in corruption. I'm not happy that this is happening in the country, but I'm glad the Ministry is fighting it and it shows that no one will be protected, no one who is the bearer of political function, no one who is rich and tycoon and has a serious property condition. That wasn't the case in years ago. That fight was selective. Today, the fight against corruption and crime is a serious process in which the government of the Republic of Serbia, its prime minister and competent ministries are sincere and show that they want to live in Serbia both more honestly and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29781	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Markovic, why do you think you have the right to a replica? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I am mentioned. He asked me about the number of the official messenger. ) He didn't mention you in any way in a negative context, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Markovic will only be entitled to the amendment to speak, but before that, MP Zoran Babic has a line, since his name was mentioned, but Mr. Babic has given up, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29782	Dear Minister, I really think we're serious people here. I don't know what's inconclusive, if I mention that in the reasoning of the law on page 12 that the adoption of the Ministry Act "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 16, which these jobs were placed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, I don't know what's not serious. If the Minister of this country who has been in charge of these affairs says it is not the law and that it is not an act to be handled by all institutions, then it follows that it is perfectly normal that all other institutions from the local level, through the republic, allow such disasters to occur and that no one is responsible. If the government's 2011 decision is not valid and valid for you, then it is simply a big problem, then it gives an answer which is why there was no reaction in Kragujevac on 14 May, either in Ivanjica, or in Užica, or in Cačka. That's the answer, and no one's to blame for these things. For me, this was a document that was the basis for competent institutions to act on. The thesis that you came here with that there are no laws, that no one has ever done anything on that job to cover up your mistakes and the problems are really inadmissible. Our amendments here, as well as the one Mr. Sutanovac was talking about, have just contributed to the experience of the previous period, the laws that existed and everything else we can use in the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29783	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. As you noticed, I didn't interrupt, and you just advertised that the previous speaker wasn't talking about the amendment, and that's exactly what you weren't doing. You spoke for a minute and 45 seconds, and you never mentioned the amendment once. Just to keep it on record. Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29784	I just have to say, this thing is a complete substitute for thesis. The Ministry Act has been passed. It was passed by the National Assembly, not by the Government, as the National Assembly passed laws, and the law only defines the work of the ministries. He's not setting up the area. It's like saying you don't need a law on the police, because the Ministry Act will write that these jobs are dealt with by the MUP, and that solves everything. Then why do we need any law? I don't know if you don't understand or use it as a political matter. I'm stupid to go further into the detailed lab. I hope you understand that. That would mean there shouldn't be any law. It's enough that in the Ministry Act alone, you share jurisdiction by the competent ministries and say they deal with it and nothing else. The Act on the Termination of the Law ‘The Official Messenger’, No 18/92. It was passed in 1992 by the Law on the Termination of the Law on Anti-Build Protection and was never passed after that, never until today. I hope that in today's day, if it's voting day, the National Assembly will bring it in. That's what this is all about. As for this member of the Law, the amendment we are talking about, this amendment only defines the existence of a new Emergency Agency to deal with this activity. I'm not going in now, because it's a serious and complex topic of whether emergency situations should be in the MUP, whether they should be in a special directorate, the agency. That's another topic now. We can't talk about it in some serious way today, we're just not all prepared for it. I also wrote to our colleagues who are dealing with this and talked to Mr. Maric, etc., but in this particular case, prevention must go to the authority responsible for monitoring the hydrometeorological situation, breaking the clouds and which is able to make a decision on it. The people in the emergency situation are dealing with solving the consequences of emergency situations, when they arise, and that's the essence of the emergency situation. No prevention, because then we should take over the Ministry of Health and deal with the prevention of possible infectious diseases, so we can take over all the homes of health. That's absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29785	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29786	I totally understand what you're saying, Mr. Minister, but you don't seem to understand us. We are now creating a legal framework for you to regulate this system in a much better and more comprehensive manner. You're pushing it all into the RHMZ now. We believe that this is not good and that this can already be opened and that, in the context of this solution, the emergency sector, or the emergency situation, is being resolved later. There is a ministry in the Russian Federation that deals with this. In Europe, where it works, there are a number of agencies. There is a famous Fem Agency in America, and that's what we're trying to explain to you without wanting to get into the controversy about your work on curbing corruption. I commended the incarceration of the judge returned by this government, this regime returned to be a judge, since he was not re-elected in our time. The responsibility is certainly not on the Democratic Party, nor do we want to be anyone's lawyers, but we are expressing concern that the murders on the streets are not being solved. We think it's a much bigger problem and it has to... Unfortunately, I'm going to say one more time, today the MUP has no head of the criminal police administration, which is the heart of the anti-crime system in Serbia for a year, and I don't want to talk about relations in the MUP. City SUP, you, Republic, it's the police department, I don't want to open topics that aren't on the agenda today. I'm just calling for you to deal with it more, and less with emergency situations, because if we make the agency work the police will be police work, and that's the point. Maybe you don't understand. You've only been here a year and someone told you that the head of the RHMZ in our time, a member of the DS, was more powerful than the deputy prime minister and first vice president of Mr. Ivica Dacic's government and you believe that. What else they told you, I'd really like to hear. It's just amazing that we could impose something on Ivica Dacic who was a coalition partner, respected, not like you, was a minority partner without whom nothing could pass into parliament. He wanted to capture as many authorities as possible, thinking it was important to him. The mistake was made. I accept, we made a mistake, but let's try it better now, if it takes some time, let's do it in time, but let's say it's settled. It won't be solved like this and we'll be sitting here in a year and we'll analyze it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29787	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29788	I want you to live long. What you said you won't live to see. I don't know why you applauded, because I had a catastrophic experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29789	Mr. Sutanovac, don't make such an illusion. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29790	Thank you for your good wishes. I'm just afraid if I said this, what headlines would be in the paper tomorrow. I have to tell you, if we're taking the Russian Federation, their MCS, their ministry isn't in the city's protection business. They have an emergency ministry, but they're not in the city's protection business, and we're talking about it today. Now we can talk about the models of the Emergency Sector, but we're dealing with the city's protection law today. If we're talking about protection from the city, the Ministry doesn't do it. So, if we put it in this agency now and this amendment of yours, we wouldn't get any systems existing in the world that deal with it. So again, we would have a new experiment on how it's the only thing that's done in Serbia. That's one thing. Secondly, I just have to tell you for the truth, these judges who have been returned have been returned by the Constitutional Court's decision. At that time, the Constitutional Court was elected on the proposal of the President of the Republic, at least half of your party Mr Tadic's party at the time, so the judges he proposed returned the judges among other things and decided why these judges were first expelled and returned from work, to the decision of the Constitutional Court elected by your regime. This assembly majority and the President of the Republic as well as predicts it, we don't know that. We didn't choose judges, we didn't decide, this Constitutional Court is in office today. Why did they make it, why did you make the first illegal decision, and others, as the courts decide that you and I can't discuss it, the court is independent, the judges make a decision according to their free judgment, but it has absolutely nothing to do with SNS. As far as all of this is concerned, I used to be not, I'm just in doubt, whether as a minister I should be dealing with police operations, so then I'm in charge of everything, and it's okay or I'm being transferred that I shouldn't, because as a minister I'm successful, my chapter 24 and our action plan has been given a transitional grade. There were people here from Brussels, from the European Commission in a serious constructive meeting, congratulating the work of the MUP. As for Chapter 24 of his action plan. As far as we're concerned, as far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, I congratulate the citizens of Serbia and the members of the ministry who hired on this thing tomorrow morning, we can do so when the political will is created to open chapter 24 as regards the preparation that the ministry has been doing. We have 114 people less killed on the streets of Serbia thanks to the good work of the traffic police. We have serious work, people from the MUP. I'm not going to read you statistics on the number of deaths from 2007 to 2011 in criminal fights, accounts, robberies, drug dealers, etc. It's just, it's old that, I'm unhappy and like every murder, every threat makes me a minister of dissatisfaction, but people work on it, and I'm convinced that in a relatively short period of time, and you know, you've spent enough time in the security system to know that serious investigations don't end for a day, they don't end sometimes in a week, sometimes they cross over with some other investigations, so you can't bring in some small piece of work, and you're waiting for the realisation of a much bigger job, and I'm confident that the police will do their job very seriously and efficiently. As far as my relationship is concerned, believe me, my relationship with all the MAP organisational units is really good. Many think wrong, sometimes I create such an impression and it suits me to think I'm not good with all people, it's my political tactics, who will be my closest associates, which will be further, it's politics, but leave it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29791	I thank Dr. Stefanovic. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29792	The Honorable Chairman, you are in violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want us to talk today about citizens in Serbia guarding their houses at night from thieves because the police can't protect them. Do you want to talk about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29793	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I don't think I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day. Yeah. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29794	Mr. Minister, there's a saying in Serbia. They say the first 20 years in the opposition are hard, then they'll get used to it, so I'm not worried about your health and longevity and I support what you just said. Since you proved when we spoke in principle and in particular about this bill that the Anti-Build Protection Act was not and that it could not prevent any decision on trust in business or any other lower legal act. If there was a system, there was, there was, there was anti-urban protection, there was a system that was often experimented with, often played with, instead of modernising and improving, that there was no will to regulate, there was no will, and there was clear data, data that I would be very happy to give you. According to the 2002-2009 RHMZ survey, the average damage suffered annually by the Republic of Serbia to the city and heavy rainfall is around 7.3 billion. This data to the bi- regime, which now wants to introduce some agencies to us, the additional burden of the budget was not enough to react, 7.3 billion dinars is the annual damage from the city. In 2009 only in one day, and on 20 April 2009, 47 million dinars were damaged, in the area in which they were planted, say, the 47 million dinars in one day. Has the former regime responded? No, they don't care about the caecies, they don't care about the people who were questioned that year, and the existence of those families was questioned. Zaharija Trnavcevic, a respected fellow MP, claimed in 2010, that the damage that year, and we know that Mr Trnavcevic is an excellent acquaintance and agriculture and all that about agriculture, and I agree that anti-urban protection is not directly related to agriculture, that in 2010, the damage amounted to a record 100m euros. Did the regime then say – let's fix the law, let's do something better, let's try something? No, they didn't. They didn't care. And now we come to that very difficult moment. The Anti-Corruption Council was in 2010, and we just heard from colleagues that the director was then a member of the DS, a prominent member of the DS, the Anti-Corruption Council sent an official letter to Mirko Cvetkovic, warning of non-transparent work. The damage is believed to be greater than 8.5m euros, as there was no record of purchased and spent rockets. You know, money's being spent, no matter how many missiles have been bought, no matter how much fire, no record. There was something wrong with the law, there was no record of missiles. And then there was a missile deficit, though it is said that the budget envisioned 10m euros for these purposes. Since 2004, it is the most significant by 2010, the purchase of anti-building missiles has gone through direct guessing rather than through a public tender, which was by law. They were bought for 30,000 dinars per piece, instead of 20,000 of what the market value was then. There was no quality control, no control of the purchased amount of missiles. Is this the way to treat anti-urban protection? Is this the way, is this the system? Shouldn't a system like this be affected by a bill? Is this the best law, I believe it isn't, but there was the best will of the Proposer to arrange this area, to put it all under one hat. No agencies, no one, no other or third addresses. One address for both cloud tracking and giving orders for both shooters and rocket-bending, it's all in one place, it's all in RHMZ that can't and will never work non-transparently, it won't pay 50% more than you've paid for it, it won't have to react to the Anti-Corruption Council. And the government, then Mirko Cvetkovic turned his head on the other side, they didn't care. For this reason, I repeat, the SNS will support this law that you have proposed to Mr Stefanovic and we will reject the amendment, because I think the money that would have been used to form the agency, to hire who knows who and who knows what the basics, would only burden the budget, and that money can be used in a much better and better way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29795	Based on what, Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. As authorized. ) If we listened carefully to Mr Babic, he was merely giving facts about a man who was a member of your party. This does not mean that you are automatically entitled to a replica and I do not see at all the basis of the replica now on the exhibition of Babic. No, no. Thank you. Sit down. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: He mentioned the party several times. No, no, I didn't see it at all. That's the data. We can't perform the facts here, nor is it the Parliament's business to do that. It is well said that there are organs that will determine whether someone is telling the truth or not, and I will not go into it. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Then by amendment. ) You will wait for the amendment until the first order is fulfilled. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, and then I'll give you the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29796	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, only after the amendment, certainly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, according to the amendment that the Proposer has presented as essential and certainly when he looks at himself, everything proposed by the same promoters has a special place precisely because he is pulling some amendments after him to the next members who will come later. So, certainly the specificity of this to Article 6 is obvious, and I agree it is important precisely because it follows that we discuss this properly later. He has this amendment and, specifically, this proposal, as he could say by that colleague who today called himself good, successful and valuable, there are more things. First thing, I think it's important to clarify whether it stands or does not stand a note that we received in response from the government. In particular, I am referring to the next thought – that there are already bodies in the system of state administration that can effectively exercise competences in this area with a regulated regulatory framework and a stable financing system that will provide this law, which is RHMZ with the support of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. So, not according to those circumstances that the amendments today commented that once at some level there could be no adequate solution, we are talking in the context of what reality is now and what is being achieved by this very law. We haven't heard the reasons why this doesn't stand, although it's tendingly suggested there that the government wants this particular way to regulate this problem. There's nothing hidden about it. So black on white is in the explanation that we got and you can see what the intensity is. We haven't heard why this isn't good. Secondly, an alternative is proposed. In what way? In the form of a proposed agency. I think it was a fundamental argument because the agency exists in a state like the United States. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it cannot be a crucial reason for me. I don't think he's even proposing amendments. It is not because it seems to me that today is the first time the Ministry of Emergency in the Russian Federation has been mentioned in the context – there is a solution in a large and serious system in a powerful state, but we thought it should not be applied to us. Please, same logic, is this something else that has also been applied in a large and powerful state automatically means that it represents the best solution for the Republic of Serbia? It also needs to be explained, and in itself it's not enough. Speaking of the agency's names, this is now a digression, there have been some attempts today to propose amendments to the performances for certain Serbian language protectors in this home. It would be interesting to look at that written explanation where they explained the name of that agency that exists in America. I would be grateful to be read by what they have explained to us in such a Cyrillic letter, but it seems by some strange interpretation that the rule of Vuk Karadzic is written that it is called the agency, I cannot even say it, some – it is mentioned, etc. This has already been a depression and inconclusion on my part. I'm sorry about that, but if it turns out for the protection of Serbian language, I'll probably turn out to be some rock star at the very least. When it comes to this agency of comment on whether the extra money is necessary for its operation, it is today a few times understood by fellow Babic, it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to say – it is not. It's kind of close to being able to form something new has to be paid. We need to explain, to explain why no extra money is needed and why it won't be a problem for this country. Still on the same subject. In the context of the Government – time, time needed to measure the solutions proposed for today's debate, to be implemented in actions. At the very beginning of the argument is this question – what about time? If we form something completely new, how much will it cost us in terms of time? I think the amendment promoters also appreciate this argument. Why do I say that? I see in some of the following members that measures are proposed that treat dynamics, implementation and entry into force and underline themselves that time is important to them. So whether this comment stands or does not stand and ultimately what is the goal and the idea and what the amendment's proposings are for should also be clarified right now. The last part of the reasoning that we received from the Government – are there or are there no legal and technical reasons not to adopt this proposal? Please advise them to take a closer look at whether we have failed to regulate jurisdiction, the formation of an agency, etc. What the minister mentioned is whether or not it makes sense that these jobs, the city's protection jobs, as is done with this amendment, are fixedly linked to the Emergency Sector. Does it make sense or doesn't it? Why is that a problem? Look at the government's response to some subsequent amendment, I think it refers to Article 10, also to the same proposings. There are both legal and technical reasons to wonder if this is acceptable or not at all. These are all important things and all of this I am saying why – because of those proposals that come to members later, because this amendment is being called on many more times. If we don't clarify these things at the very beginning, I would call on them not to insist on them, or on some of the amendments that are coming in later on, not insisting now on what remains inexplicably and quite controversially, as we are now acting. We have already been in this room several times in a similar situation, and then the proposings of this amendment and those who support it today have accepted a suggestion from me that unless we determine something that is being introduced now there is no need to even insist after the debate on all those members who are uplifting and who are the pure implications of this right now. Something like that could have been arranged between us in the past. I welcome and invite you to do so this time. It would certainly contribute to the efficiency of our work, but also to the seriousness of this work that we are doing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29797	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29798	Thank you, Your Honor. In total, the government accepted 8.30% of the amendment to the Turnover Movement, and I hope that distinguished counterpart Obradovic would probably say it has certain political implications for some of the next elections to be held in Serbia. In this amendment we asked, Mr Stefanovic, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, to accept our proposals to be more precise, to replace the word - long term, i.e. by word - six-year-old, to replace the word - three-year-old. Why? Because it is not clear to us in legal practice what long-term and medium-term means. Let me give you a specific example. For example, in the area of business in Serbia, the word – long term means over a year. It has been in the European framework for over five years. The word – the medium term in us sometimes means up to a year, from six months to a year. In the European frameworks of two to five years. What makes us think, Mr. Stefanovic, that you should have accepted this amendment? Because it would be more certain for which period the government brings a plan of defence from the city on the one hand and on the other, that the possibility would be clearly predicted if technical and other changes were to occur in this area so that the government could be better qualityd...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29799	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29800	I'm done. ... to fight the city with some new methods, so that it can put into a new plan which will be clearly predictable and time-limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29801	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I have one announcement. On 16 June, about 15.00 hours, I gave notice to MP Jovan Markovic. Meanwhile, the MP apologized and, most importantly, we resolved the issue of dialogue. In that sense, I find it human and wrong and forgiving and I have decided to withdraw that reminder. I expect this gesture of goodwill will only contribute to the promotion of dialogue in this assembly. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29802	Dear Chairman, first of all, I would like to thank you for this gesture you have shown. I really don't think there have ever been any hints on my part that I want to humiliate the work of this assembly or you as chairman. I thought it was my right to get a word in that moment. I'm sorry there was a misunderstanding and thank you for this gesture. As for the amendments that we have tabled, honourable ministers and honourable MPs, I believe that this set of members and amendments that have been submitted to these articles since 6th and beyond is very important for the overall organisation of the work of the competent authority and for the delegation of all jobs. In Article 6(3), the competent authority is said to propose regular and extraordinary reports to the government on the functioning of a single defence system against the city. Dear Ministers, this proposal that we have addressed to you regarding the setting of deadlines and we consider it very important to specify the deadlines both in Article 6 and in Article 7. In this case, the proposal is to separate regular and extraordinary reports and to have regular reports written by 1 May, or another report written by 1 September. Dear Minister, I really ask you to accompany what I am saying and my fellow MPs so as not to disturb you, since it is very important and I think it is worth your attention and time. Article 6, which I'm talking about, is also related to Article 7. I really think that setting deadlines for both the competent authority and local administrations and the institution, i.e. the institutions in this business, is something that will improve the work on this job. The experiences we had as a society have shown that if the system doesn't have deadlines and if you don't have certain role-holders, there is a failure. It is precisely the events that took place in Ivanjica and Arilj on 14 May, precisely the events that later took place in Kragujevac, just the city that fell into Užica, Čačka and Kralje, that it is not enough to say that regular reports are being written. It is precisely these reports that should point to problems, to indicate failures and to indicate what the competent institutions need to fix so that such things don't happen. If you miss the chance to vote on these amendments today, or to adopt them, you are in a position to keep this field of action completely indeterminate and that we will never know who is responsible for the failure and the damage done to people by more than 10m euros on 14 May. Who is to blame that seven days ago the city fell into Uzica and the surrounding area, and what has been done great harm? A few villages are out of crops. If you don't set deadlines, if you don't determine responsibility for this matter, we'll still have big problems. So I warn you that this member is in direct contact with both Article 7 and several later members, which we will talk about later, and that it is very important to establish both deadlines and responsibility by applying these members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29803	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29804	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr Sutanovac was talking about in the afternoon part of today's session, is that, in addition to all those agencies that the Government of the Republic of Serbia promised that the crisis and the lack of funds in the budget would end, it never happened in the end. So 140 agencies still exist today. With this proposal, and with this amendment, we wanted to introduce one that would really prevent the damage the city produces every year. So, what happened this year, and that damage cannot be accounted for by either the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture or the local self-government or the RHMZ, so what is the essence of this agency, is that in one comprehensive and easier way, this issue would be resolved. So all that has not been done right in Serbia over the past four years is SNS' responsibility. What will happen in the future, because here and in principle, we have discussed, therefore, your responsibility is all that will present in the future a daunting circumstance for both farmers and all those who have suffered damage from the city. We think this bill of yours is incomprehensible and that the transfer of responsibility from the ministry to RHMZ is very bad. We don't think it was necessary for your ministry and yourself, Mr. Stefanovic, to come and explain this bill, because we think it might have been more called for by the Minister of Agriculture. However, what is the point is that we all work together to prevent any subsequent case of this nature and to think whether these citizens who listen to this debate today, and who have suffered from 50m to 70m euros in damages in May this year, will they understand that we actually need to talk about daily political issues, to fight over various things that do not really do life in Serbia. I think this amendment actually solves their problems. The Democratic Party has therefore proposed this agency. The agency would also include funds, but funds that would be incomparably less than the damage the city caused only in May this year. So we think it's worth it and we think it's important for this problem to be solved this way. By transferring responsibility from the MUP, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry without portfolio, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the RHMZ, we don't think that anyone who has suffered the damage will really have anything, no benefits, and they won't be any better. What matters is that this amendment is accepted. We think this is an agency that is really worth having in Serbia, although we have an excessive number of public sector employees. It is, of course, on your government to solve this problem. But we think that this agency is the one that besides all those who exist, and they have no big purpose other than hiring some party workers, is the agency that can prevent this problem from being solved. We think this is a good solution, and I would really like, if you find it appropriate, to adopt this amendment together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29805	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29806	I have to say, these are cute, they're political tricks at first -- the government is, you see, four years already. Someone in Serbia will now think that this government has a truly four-year term. This government has been in office for a little over a year, and Aleksandar Vukic is Prime Minister. Taking even since the SNS was in power, the government was elected on July 27th 2012. So, counting on that government, these two governments have not been in office for three years. It's more than a month to three years in office. I know it's been a long time for some people, but that's true, that's what the facts are. As far as the amendments are concerned, it's simply not about whether they're going to be called, if we want, celery. The RHMZ may also perform the same function as would be performed by the Agency. What would be the fundamental difference? We're talking about protecting the defense from the city. If we're talking about a system of emergency situations, we've had more models today, as people have spoken, so I tried to deny one by one. So there's a whole ministry in Russia dealing with emergency situations, a huge ministry, and it's not about protecting the city. It's just that we can form a hundred agencies, we can form a hundred ministries, we can do a hundred things, but protection from the city is not put in an institution that deals with emergency situations. The city's protection is placed in an institution dealing with the monitoring of hydrometeorological phenomena and preventing facts from becoming mayoral clouds on dangerous clouds. It's the essence of this law, one of the essences of the law. So we can talk about how to fix the Emergency Sector, whether it's going to be an emergency directorate, whether it's going to be an independent institution, whether it's this or that, but it's nothing to do with protecting the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29807	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29808	The SNS' position is clear when it comes to forming any new agencies, and I would not like to repeat myself, which is why it is unnecessary to form a new agency. However, we have now received a kind of recognition, when the amendment's promoter said they formed 140 agencies that have no purpose other than to hire party personnel. Since no new SNS agency has formed, we will not form this one either, this is just a sign and a recognition that the former regime has formed pointless agencies that have served only and exclusively for the employment of party, godfather, cousin, any other personnel, just not that and not those that would bring improvement to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We do not want to continue these paths, we do not want to continue with this policy, we do not want to form agencies without any meaning and no purpose whatsoever, as the amendment promoter said, because this would be an irresponsible relationship for both the citizens of Serbia and the public finances. Once again, the SNS parliamentary group will vote against this amendment, because we want as much money as possible for radar systems, for the launch stations themselves, for as many missiles, for those people who fire those missiles, these are the means spent in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29809	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. On what basis? I can't hear you very well. No, you don't have the right replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: "I don't care"? Well, I've submitted the amendment. ) Please, I'm also very good at monitoring your exposure and exposure to the other debaters, this is about the agency. You support the agency and the other side doesn't support it and there's no more, it's all clear. Do you understand? I don't see the need for replicas at all. Nothing offensive. One side says against it, you say yes, and what's that now? No, no, you have no right, please. I don't see the basis really, there was nothing offensive, nothing, I don't see the basis. Does anyone else want the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29810	Here, I've already got the word look.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29811	Excuse me, re-apply. Here you go. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29812	Yeah, according to the amendment. So, what's the point? We're offering an option. One option is that the government has chosen to move the matter to the hydrometeorological institution. It's a state body. It has technical capabilities, in terms of radar, tracking, etc. So that's not controversial. But it is also not disputed that this is another option, when the Emergency Sector, along with the part of the employees who are now doing these things, or working in terms of monitoring the city clouds, is being transferred to a new agency that would cost less than the Velija ministry, which does not exist now, the sector and people in the hydrometeorological office are being transferred to a new agency. So no more money would be paid. So much for saving. About the city clouds. Why was FEMA mentioned, the American agency? Because you have hurricanes there, you have other natural disasters that attack the North American continent that, thank God, we don't. We have some other accidents, a wave in the face of this government. But what we would like through this proposal is that what affects our man, our farmer, and that's the city, is within the framework of this new emergency agency. So we're fighting disasters. Emergency situations aren't just a pteriori, they don't just serve to remove what happened and Mr. Maric knows it well. The preventive segment is one of the key things. Since the city is causing enormous damage to our farmers, to our citizens, we through this proposal are giving the government the opportunity to do so if they want to. The funds are absolutely not needed new, the employees of the new are absolutely not needed and plus is in line with what you promised to reduce the number of unnecessary agencies. Imagine if you only fulfilled your pre-election promise of how much money there would be. I agree with you, many of these agencies are unnecessary, but it didn't make them DS unnecessary. They were created by an abnormal system that has been going on for decades, which, unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia, now, this is the key thing, you continue. Now, that's the problem. There's your chance, dear colleague, for you to get out of it. Here, we offer you an option. Remove 20 unnecessary agencies and make one necessary, so you can see how cheaper that is. It's just that then you're gonna have to tell party colleagues that you don't know where they're going to work, so that's the problem, where they're going to get big wages. You absolutely know I'm not advocacy of the past, in any way. I only suggested to you, start with yours. This agency could be, I repeat, a good solution. I haven't heard any arguments as to why this proposal isn't good. We absolutely agree that things should be centralized in the fight against the city. I agree that as much as possible should be centralised in the fight against natural disasters, floods, fires and all other disasters that are happening in Serbia. I don't see where we differ here, except you think the Institute can do it adequately, the non-existent Ministry of Velija Ilic, who no one in Serbia knows what he's doing and Mr. Maric's Emergency Sector, who and how we know what he's doing, but who always finds himself in a situation to react afterwards, that he doesn't have enough resources, that he has to pray for the MUP, unbound who's the minister, that he always has the same problem of jurisdiction and everything else. So we're the land where the Chief of Staff defends the corruption, my people. Do you understand how this is not in line with common sense or with any normal rules or flows? Here, interesting. So this is one step and a motion that doesn't have to be the best, just explain to us why this is wrong. Why is this wrong? I'm asking you very specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29813	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29814	Unfortunately, it's very easy for me to explain why it's not good, but I've done it many times today. We take it to adopt your amendment, let's take tomorrow morning to form an agency in which we put the entire Emergency Sector and that it exists tomorrow morning, of course it would cost a lot more. It would have to be completely different normatively arranged, more people should be joined, agencies financed in a different way, pay ranges are different, everything would be different, on the fiscal side as well, and on the legal side would cost significant citizens of Serbia. But let's just take at this point that it's not like that and that it's forming and that it exists tomorrow morning, which is the logic, and where in the world is that this agency, or whatever you call, is dealing with emergency situations against urban protection? That's the real question, not whether it's gonna be an agency, so we've been talking here for an hour about the agency, the directorate or the sector. What is the logic, and where is it in the world, when Russia has the entire Ministry of Emergency? It's huge, so it doesn't deal with anti-urban protection, because the job of an emergency situation is completely different from the prevention of the fight against city clouds. That's the whole point of our story. We can do it again by tomorrow, spin and talk. As far as the Emergency Sector is concerned, it is an integral part of the interior ministry and shares the fate of all employees in the interior ministry. That's what you can ask Mr. Maric, so I don't talk about it. He, unfortunately, can't speak at this session, but he can say at a press conference, since I'm a minister, what is the relationship to the Emergency Sector, what is the attitude towards employees, the supply of equipment, techniques and everything we invest in the Sector. Would I like to have more for the police? I'd love to. Whether I'd like to have more, but unfortunately because of the typhoon, the hurricane that hit Serbia in 2008, we don't have that. That typhoon destroyed everything that could have destroyed, and now we have to build from the beginning. But already today we have more fire trucks, we have more robots, we have more equipment and new uniforms, and everything is much better than it was before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29815	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister, given that according to the Rules of Procedure, he can only speak for two minutes. Okay, I'll take that as well. On what grounds? By amendment. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: By amendment or replica, anyway.]] Here you go, Mr. Granny. Mr. Markovic, what is it? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, please report to the line. I don't really see the basis. The minister questioned MP Borislav Stefanovic, why not form an agency, gave his view of the reasons. Now I don't see how you'd be entitled to a replica. There was nothing offensive. I ask you to respect this attitude of mine. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29816	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, at first I would like to express my satisfaction with the way this debate is being held in the last few minutes or a few dozen minutes, when there are different concepts it is quite normal and democratic to show them, to seek consent to these concepts and to talk on the basis of arguments. I agree there are too many agencies in the Republic of Serbia. I agree that they are also burdening public finances, but what I cannot agree with the previous speaker is that these agencies were formed by 2012, that these agencies were formed by the former regime, that they had started to function in the past regime. Which means that those who work in those agencies have been hired by representatives of the former regime, and they are suddenly now sympathisers, or members of the SNS. All of a sudden, these are party SNS personnel. How? I didn't hear any SNS members say they could be hired anywhere in the state administration by 2012. How suddenly those who made those agencies, and I accept this public recognition and condemnation of how they treated both agencies and public finances, but just explain to me that these people you hired to get those agencies working suddenly became SNS activists. It's impossible. I'm not into experimenting. I think that merger now, now those mergers and those fusions, would have turned out to be a game. In this way, we could say tomorrow, so why don't you give us why, what the Ministry of Traffic is going to do, and then we'll get the traffic out, and then we'll get all the agencies out of the area of traffic, and then we'll get the traffic police out, and then we'll do everything in one place. It's impossible. We can't play games. I think it is necessary to adopt this law in the National Assembly as soon as possible, to set up a system that will reduce the damage to the city, or raise awareness to a minimum. I'm grateful to Mr. Dikovic for defending the rash. I am grateful to Mr. Dikovic for defending the rash in Cevrentija, only 25km long, as well as the rash held by members of the Serbian Army, but also representatives of the MUP in Sapac at the silos. Then I saw representatives of the CAP, as well as other representatives of the MUP, as well as all those responsible citizens of the Republic of Serbia who defended their cities, their houses and those who were not threatened, but who accepted the invitation of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic to help defend the country in emergency situations, to defend human lives. The job of both the generals and the minister and the MPs and the ordinary citizen is to roll up their sleeves and be with their citizens in these situations. I don't see why such a situation should be trivialized or shown that it shouldn't have happened. Surely then, neither Mr. Stefanovic nor Mr. Gasic, nor any of us, nor Mr. Dikovic, were there any warm rooms. There was a situation when the prime minister, then as first prime minister of the government, was struggling with members of the ministry to get people out of the trash, then on some social networks, some other politicians from the warm New Sad cabinets tweeted and thought of it. I call, call and make a public call even though I want this situation to never happen again anywhere, not even in Serbia, that in such situations we all have to roll up our sleeves even though I don't want to invite him to the controversy, because I know that Mr Stefanovic was one of those citizens who rolled up their sleeves and were with the other citizens. But then we must not think about acts, functions, but only about the goal, which is protecting human lives, protecting the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29817	Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis are you answering? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: I have two basics. ) Mr. Stefanovic, I really don't see the basis of the replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: I have two basics. Please, give me a chance to make this clear. ) Okay, but it's only expressed in terms of disagreement with your amendment proposal, but you can by amendment, but I don't see a basis for replication. Then before that, I must give priority to those MPs who have never called before, so I will give you my word. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29818	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, the agency, I think it's an extra cost, it's visible, it's a new special organization that would deal with a job where it later costs space, division, probably equipment. The question of whether the complete equipment now owned by the RHMZ can cross some of the equipment or all of it into a new agency. Next, the promoters of this amendment, DS, or individual DS MPs in 2011, were against the removal from the RHMZ and let them stay on that proposal and then we are on the same path. Simply this natural habitat of defense from the city is RHMZ and we do not need to escape whether within the RHMZ, the internal organisation will be a special organic unit that will deal with this part of the job, let them assess it themselves. Here we just need RHMZ to do its part of the job and I think we've got a good defense system from the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29819	The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Just to let you know, you have two minutes from the parliamentary group, two minutes and five seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29820	Now I'm using the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29821	It seems we've begun to interpret each other in our own way. Please consult this Rules of Procedure a little bit. There's a decadent saying when there's a right to replication and if I have to, I can read it, and I don't think there's any need because we've been working here for so long and I don't see any basis for replication. Here, according to the amendment, but let me just give you back the time since it's been 32 seconds in my, let me say, unnecessaryly challenged dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29822	I'll try very briefly then. I don't see on what basis would be a higher cost, that's an assumption, as well as our amendment one of two options. One option is to go back to RHMZ, and this is another option to build an agency. So we're giving you two options. Of course she's closer to you first. This second option does not show in any element why higher costs would be. Why is it that when the same services, the same responsibilities, the same people who are already doing so, the same funding that is now available for RHMZ, which is for insurance damages, etc. which is another problem. So, I don't see where the extra cost is, especially if you cut the number of agencies, as you promised in the election campaign. Now, in the case of employees, so it was by 2012, there was mass party employment. But since 2012, even more. Yes, well, yes, Mr. Granny... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: How is it measured? )......................................................................................................... Look at the list of employees, the number of employees by Serbian agencies, and you will find it very easy to find that the number of employees is increased and that in some agencies up to 50%, and you will now argue to me, and you know that it is not true, that these people are admitted to the competition, it is not true, that these are people who are not party personnel, not true, absolutely all party soldiers. In other words, it's not mine or your argument, nor will it do any good. It would be good for you to stop it, if you can, and you can, because you have power, you have a knife and a cake, so cut. And you don't want to cut? Well, then some new power will come after you, much faster than you think, so it'll have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29823	Mr. Babic, he did mention you by name, okay, come on. Let me get this straight. Let's not move what's not true now. I followed Mr. Stefanovic, he called Babic by name and last name, clearly and loudly, and thus made it impossible for me not to give him a replica, nor do I have special sympathy for Babic, but as an associate, or anyone else, but I am trying to work on the Rules of Procedure as planned. Excuse me, Mr. Granny, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29824	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just don't know which device measures who hired more, and who hired less, except that there's a politically thrown argument out of the sleeve, which isn't founded in the truth. The Serbian Progressive Party refers to public finances to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, responsibly. In the way we first passed the law, we stopped employment in the public sector, a law for which the former regime had neither the strength nor the will, nor the desire to do so. We've cut across how many people are employed in the public sector, from the local community to the ministry. Has that occurred to the former regime? No, it's not, because in such uncleared relationships, in that cloudy water, everything was being solved. In party employment, I spoke back then, and I will speak now, there are no innocents, only that the amount of guilt is directly proportional to the length of the remainder in power. The former regime has been in power for 15 years and today in Vojvodina, doing whatever it wants and whatever it wants. They have time for this, for different lighting in Serbia, and for different rallys, with the party's account being blocked. From where, how? Non-transparent funding, of which money? And a SNS that can measure its responsibility for a year, a year when we passed all these laws. In other words, we can also show if any of us who worked or still works in the public sector were admitted to some ministry or some company after the competition?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29825	The word is made by MP Milan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29826	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, none of the above-mentioned reasons for the introduction of a new agency, as previous speakers said, that there are a lot of agencies in which they themselves participated, designed and employed them, probably by hiring and keeping in mind that this will be done by SNS in this methodology and way, to hire these same staff again. By opening up a new agency and some new institution, a request from the director, administrative service, security service and anything else that requires additional costs, so there is no valid reason at this time to move and open a new agency. I don't see any reason why such controversy. Today they're pushing for the agency to shut down these agencies, regardless of whose party personnel, and we all know they're party personnel from some former regime, since they're all agencies that were opened and formed after 2000. And at this point, the same thing is saying that we're taking care of these people, regardless, because the previous regime has left a lot of devastation and unemployed people, a catastrophic privatisation that was carried out during the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29827	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29828	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, amendment to Article 7 which may seem technical at first sight, which is that the number 15 is being changed by number 1, but it is essential and therefore I would like to stress it in particular, which means that the report on the preparation of the defence system from the city, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will adopt on 1 April of the calendar year, because the season starts on April 15th and I believe this is extremely important and the bill said that the government adopted the report on April 15th when the season began. I am pleased that the minister has accepted this amendment and this suggestion, because we believe that two weeks is quite enough, that in case certain local self-governments or missing shooters or certain launch systems don't work, or something third, or fourth, it doesn't work, two weeks is enough to correct it, that the system is arranged and that it can be adequately started with the operation of April 15th. I thank the government once again for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29829	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29830	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, the amendment's proposal concerns, above all, sub-point 1) where this is defined as what counterpart Jovanovic was talking about, that the term on the April 15th reports, according to our proposal, is changed on February 15th. The second proposal we made in this amendment, in this article, is that a report on the functioning of the city's defence system with a proposal for a work programme for the following year, in line with the government's work programme, is delivered in our proposal by 1 November of the current year. In an explanation of the government for which this proposal has been rejected, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not necessary to specify the exact dates for the submission of regular reports, etc. Dear Ministers, I think it is very important that you once again pay attention to the proposals that we have made both in Article 6 and in Article 7 of the amendment, because they essentially determine the issue of responsibility and the question of the dynamics of making certain decisions. If this proposal is properly analysed, you will see that through these proposals we have proposed that the reports are done on the basis of experience and on the basis of the fact that they refer to the previous year. This means, first thing, in this point 7 if our proposal were adopted then the units of the local administration, then the Republic Institute, the Government and all the competent institutions would adopt and bring their programmes by 1 November of the current year, and that is an important enough basis for this proposal, these reports to be included in the programmes of all these institutions for the next year, or in the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Next, if reports on the current situation in these institutions were to be adopted not until April 15th or April 1st, as proposed by a colleague, but by February 15th, then with certainty and certainty it could be planned, then with a sure outcome, it would be possible to know exactly what to do by April 15th to correct certain things, i.e. to make the system work and be in the right state. In case an undefined situation is left undefined, and I see that it is absolutely safe, given that both the minister and the speaker of parliament have more important jobs and that they are talking probably more important topics than they listen to these proposals, then we will come to a situation that still this society will not be able to determine who is responsible and who is to blame for the failures that are happening in this area. We, respected ministers, precisely because we respected both this topic and respected this bill, wanted to make our contribution and we think that these are key arguments, i.e. the key proposals that will make this law more effective or efficient. If you were to analyze well, you'd see that through these proposals we're prioritizing the application of this law against all other laws, I think, which we've adopted here. Then you would see that you, as a competent authority, that is, the authority responsible for the next period, in this case the Republic Institute, would have the opportunity to influence the adoption of a programme, the adoption of a report from a local level, a province level, down to the Government, then you would have a clear and clear situation in determining responsibility for everything that does not seem to be. I pointed out in the principle debate on the problem that this law does not address in any part of it as a matter of responsibility for non-compliance in the management line, in the management system, in carrying out business obligations, and if you would change this, you would accept our proposals, then you would very clearly determine the responsibility of who is to blame this year for not setting the amount of 130 million in the Republic budget for the shooters that was designated in 2014. If you were to establish this, then there would be a clear responsibility for which there was no reaction on 14 May in Aryl, Ivanjica and the surrounding villages. If you were to find that out, you would know who was responsible for not having been that position in the 2015 budget, but on the day of the big disaster and the huge disaster that is over 12m euros for these people, then in that day you made a decision to, for God's sake, separate 80 million dinars from the Treasury. Isn't that an admission to failure? Isn't that a confession to indemnity? Isn't that a confession not only that the government wasn't doing its job, but that of the institutions that were in charge of the job? If you would adopt this programme, or these amendments, you would be very easily and quickly determining responsibility in the next period. You'd know who's responsible for the Kragujevac, there's been enormous damage around Kragujevac. Do you know the answer to what caused the damage? Yeah, we bought the rockets and you talk about it for days here that has rockets more than ever, it's just a problem that nobody fires them, and the answer that didn't make the reaction in Kragujevac is -- the rockets were bought, they were in Uzic, but we didn't have a delivery vehicle, and no one was responsible for having no delivery vehicle to push them into Kragujevac. In this case for May 14, when this accident occurred no one can determine the responsibility for which the missiles were not fired. One claims there was no contract with the shooters because there was no position in the budget, another argues it was not a technically correct system. In one case or another, you have no question of responsibility, and then you will be in a situation where local administrations assess the damage, that local administrations listen to citizens and how they have suffered the damage, that they pay their own, or some compensation, and no one will be to blame. The question here is whether you are fully aware that you cannot carry the system and cannot manage it, transferred responsibility to the Institute, aware that over 500 million dinars are minus in the budget in that institution this year, aware that they can't handle these jobs, too, aware that the Ministry of Agriculture is not ready to accept them just for the sake of having all these failures you've made, in fact, put under the rug. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29831	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29832	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I must say that I agree with Mr Markovic's amendment in part. What I already mentioned earlier when I spoke about my amendment accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the amendment gives the government until April 1st to adopt a report on the preparation of the city's defence system. What Mr Markovic is saying, which I agree with, is that responsibility must be accurately determined, but I must point out because of all the MPs and for the citizens who are watching this Assembly, it is that the government has adopted another amendment that clearly says that the supervision of the implementation of this law is done by the Ministry of Agriculture, it is a key issue. The bill itself states that the supervision is carried out by the competent state authority and, with the support of SNS counterparts and other MPs, the amendment was accepted and supported by Minister Stefanovic to make it clear that the ministry is responsible for agriculture. This is very important because we have a season that lasts from April 15th to October 15th. So we've got six months of the season going on. We have a budget adoption at the end of the year for next year. When you have the adoption of the budget, you create conditions to get on time, so in January and February, you know how much you and I know, we run local self-government, how long it takes to get anti-building missiles, to choose local self-governments in Article 9. The bill stands – they choose the shooters; they go to doctoral examinations, they sign contracts with the RHMZ, it takes time, and that is why I thought it was appropriate for the first four months of the year to end, and that the government adopted the report by April 1st. If this is done faster, it is better, and you and I are colleagues and members of the Committee on Agriculture and through the competent Assembly Committee on Agriculture, we will be able at any time and by the end of the calendar year, after the end of the season, October 15, to look for extraordinary reports, to see who's guilty if the system doesn't work. I repeat that word here many times - guilt. We are all aware when the city happens and when millions of damages occur, all citizens come to local self-government, because local self-government is the first and where you always have the opportunity to complain. That's why it's very important and, but we'll talk about that later, about the assessment of the damage and the adoption of the final damage report and who's in charge, too, it's very important to make up for the damage that's been done. But it is crucial, once again, for the citizens to be aware, the bill is basically good, and I believe with this amendment that when you have a April 1st deadline, and you have the funds provided in the budget, you have public procurement, both for the purchase of missiles and for the signing of a contract with shooters throughout Serbia, then you have a system that is ready to simply act. Therefore, my dear colleague, I sincerely believe that on April 1st, it is a realistic time when all of this can be carried out, and only monitoring, when the season is over, we can go through the Agriculture Committee, because clearly, the law will stand, once again, to oversee the Ministry of Agriculture. That's the key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29833	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29834	As the issue of responsibility is raised several times in the principle debate and in today's debate on amendments, I will read to you, and it is in line with this amendment, as stated in the auditor's report, which was taken as an argument for not taking the funds to pay the shooters this year. Says the auditor - that persons, in order to carry out fire-fighting operations, shooters, from the field of anti-building protection, are still engaged by the RHMZ on the basis of contracts concluded in the name and on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, without a government act previously obtained to give authority to conclude the contract. Therefore, the auditor does not say that this is illegal, only asking that the Government, that the RHMZ requires the Government's approval and that the area of anti-building protection in relation to the financing and engagement of contractors for fire-fighting operations, or shooters, is not particularly governed by regulations governing the matter of the fight against the city, because the law was not even there. Therefore, the RHMZ was to send a letter to the Government at the time when it was to hire funds to pay the shooters and request the approval of the funds. So RHMZ didn't do it and at the position to pay the shooters had no money. When the anti-urban season started, they remembered it. The Ministry of the Interior, as much as everyone here is trying to put it back or Pedja Marić or me and the Ministry of the Interior, they simply can't, because the Ministry of the Interior has done their part of the job. Now, why didn't these people need funds? Why didn't they define it? The shooters paid 48 years from that account and from that institution, 48 years. I know, since many have resisted here -- don't go to RHMZ, not at all with them, it's not normal, let's protect these people, I'm telling you now, it's the government institution, it's made a mistake, it hasn't consulted. It's my vision, I'm not a judge, I'm not a judge. I'm not a judge. The auditor's report clearly states, not that it was illegal, but predicts a way. The auditor makes it very clear how to make it legal, and for 48 years it's done so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29835	Mr. Markovic, on what grounds do you want the word? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. I don't see the basis of the replica. You responded to the public envoy Jovanovic's presentation, but he spoke positively. I don't see the basis of the replica. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: It is very important that I say so too, positively. I know that there is never a way to end up with attitudes and ultimately, the congregation is not to have a broad discussion, because it is impossible. So please... I can give you two more minutes based on an authorised representative, by amendment, if you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29836	Dear Minister, dear colleague Jovanovic, I am pleased that you have understood my proposal as a well-intentioned suggestion and amendment as such. Dear Minister, if we all had one open conversation about this proposal together, we would come to the next conclusion. Local administrations, provinces, all institutions report on November 1st, based on these reports, plans, budgets and programmes are being made for next year. If you were to schedule plans and programmes for that year by February 15th, or reports from which you will see what is missing, then you would have time to remove all irregularities and would not have happened on May 14th or June 15th or 1st. Why? Here's an example. You'll be in a position for local administration to be on temporary funding or, let's say, the public procurement of the institute is not done, although the budget provides for a position, let's say, for the purchase of missiles, you'll be in a position to reach the 1st or I don't know which April public procurement is not completed for something. The state must react in that case. If you have 15 February as information that no jobs have been completed, you have three months to react and to remove irregularities. The essence of this amendment is precisely to highlight the importance of this law, its application, and its responsibility for non-compliance through deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29837	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29838	I, unfortunately, cannot agree with you, because when you mention local self-government, you say what would happen if local self-government came, say, into a temporary financing system. Nothing would happen to the city's defense system. The system will operate in the RHMZ, which will acquire missiles, pay for shooters from the Republic of Serbia and thus meet its legal obligations. The local self-government can help it, not necessarily if there are no funds and we do not impose a local self-government obligation on one in accordance with the law on local self-government, it has a obligation to arrange local roads, access to launch ramps and other infrastructure facilities, as the law provides, to edit these roads, to edit objects, to build a flood-defension gap, and that is its obligation, which is certainly without this law and it is normal to have. So this law will in no way violate that system. And as for local self-government, they have in this way only an additional legal option so as not to punish them for purposeless spending of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29839	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29840	Thank you. Dear Minister, I was sure you would accept this amendment and amendment to Article 9, which are mutually connected. First of all, I'd like to say, for the sake of our viewers, what it is about Article 7. Article 7 defines the powers of the supervisory authority, or the competent authority, so that point 4 states that the competent authority is preparing for the authorities of the Autonomous Region and the bodies of the units of local self-government reports on the preparation, functioning of the city's defence system for their territory. We, by reading the law, have moved to Article 9, where we have seen that local administrations are given the opportunity to consider and adopt these same reports, which are listed in paragraph 4 of this article. Then we asked a hypothetical question – what will happen in case the local administration, therefore, lower authority, rejects the report received from the competent authority? So, in order to change that, we reshape this point 4 by saying: "prepared" is replaced by "notify" and we deleted the word "reports", so that it would now read – the competent authority informs the autonomous provinces and authorities of the unit of local self-government of the preparation and functioning of the city's defence system for their territory. I say, the link between the amendment to Article 7 and the amendment to Article 9 is very large, i.e. not accepting this amendment and not accepting the amendment to Article 9. I don't think it's going to be good. You're saying in your explanation, and just to remind you, in the principle debate, you said that I was right when I realized it was simply unnatural for a lower body to reject reports from someone who was a senior organ. I don't know who did this argument. It is purely technical and informs me that the amendment is rejected for the reason that the report is, as an act, a basic instrument of co-operation by the authorities of the state administration responsible for the city's defence affairs with local self-government units. The government believes that the report as a document is formal, exhausted, covering all the necessary segments that may be important for local self-government units in the area of anti-building protection. While notifying without a clear and precise form is more informal and does not reflect the importance and importance of such a document. So, by measuring each other, I think you should, as a representative of the government, think about it one more time. This amendment of ours will be neither the first nor the last to be rejected, but I'm afraid by rejecting the amendments to Article 9(5), you'll be in a position where some of the local administrations will refuse the report after receiving a report from the competent authority. I wonder, after a while, what will happen to protecting me from the city? Once again, I ask you to carefully find a solution to this misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29841	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29842	So, the government remains that the report is a more important and serious form of reporting this kind of information because we want to give meaning, but we agree fully with you, and what we talked about in the principle debate, because the question is what happens if the lower body does not adopt that report, we cannot so stop the anti-urban protection system. You're absolutely right about that. That's why we had a solution to the amendment committee to change that part. There is an amendment to the committee that predicts the release of the report, so the adoption of the report only exists. So local self-government receives a report, but it doesn't adopt it, and that basically accepts the essence, the spirit of what you wanted to suggest, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29843	On behalf of Chapter III, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29844	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29845	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandar Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marijanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29846	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I believe that, Mr Stefanovic, you made a mistake when you did not accept this amendment. In this amendment, it more clearly defines what the word "co-operation" means. Thus, in a legal sense, the word “co-operation” means nothing in which it is not defined. Cooperation can be political, spiritual, and any other. Here we have suggested that co-operation be defined as co-operation in accordance with the programme of development and operation of the city's defence system and the annual defence plan against the city, as well as when it comes to Section 3. – according to a plan defining criteria and deadlines for their engagement. So, Minister, we have not defined on what basis co-operation is, or on which document the co-operation takes place, what the tasks of the document are, and by which criteria these cooperations are carried out. Based on this, you will again have a situation like today, where you claim that you are not responsible because the city has destroyed Serbia, that the municipalities claim that you are responsible and that no one is guilty. It "peace, peace, peace, no one is guilty", but it can't do that, Mr. Stefanovic. You've been in power for three years, Mr. Stefanovic, don't talk about a period four years ago. You've had a chance for three years, if you say the law isn't settled, and the Ministry Act is also a law. It's not true it wasn't handled. This year there was no funds, there was no coordination, and that is why we suggest that this article be clearly defined in what sense, by which document and by which criteria co-operation will take place, so that there is no situation like today to say – we are not guilty, we have done everything, and the other side says so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29847	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29848	If we wanted to make a cut, then we could say that the assembly is guilty because she's passing the laws. I'm sorry, if the assembly hasn't passed the law in 15 years, it's the Assembly's fault. All the MPs, and you were a people's ambassador who sat here, didn't pass that law, didn't propose it, and you didn't care about it at the time. In that sense, the National Assembly is guilty, not the Government. On the other hand, if we talk seriously about this issue, local self-government cannot get jurisdiction because there is not enough financial resources in most local self-government to impose on them the obligation to deal with the protection of the city. We cannot accept your amendment, because it literally implies that units of local self-government provide financial support to the city's defence system and, in accordance with the city's annual defence plan, that the actual bill does not foresee this category of annual defence plan from the city. That's one of the formal legal reasons. Secondly, when you say – no funds have been provided for anti-building protection this year. Where's that? Where are the funds not provided? I ask you, where are the funds not provided? They're in the MUP. Where are the funds not provided? You say, "No means have been provided for the first time." Where? At what point? What part of the budget, for which institution? They're for the M.O.P. The Home Office has secured it. If you have a problem with another institution, and it's hard because they might be closer to you ideologically, you have to say it. The Home Office has provided funds. I know it hurts a lot, I know it's terrible. Some new advisers in some new institutions, who have hired and taken the last few days to explain that they are not guilty, unfortunately only have a problem because they have to explain to people that they have not provided the funds. The Home Office absolutely is. As chief of staff for emergency situations, namely the Chief of Staff and Mr. Maric, as chief of staff, we brought in all the necessary acts that are important for this, and the MUP with its annual budget plan, which this National Assembly adopted. So, you approved all of this in December of last year and agreed, the National Assembly thinks it was a good thing. As soon as the National Assembly adopted it, who are we to do it differently, but the MUP adopted and provided funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29849	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ( ) On what basis of the replicas? (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: The minister asked me to answer. Don't be unserious. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: The minister asked me to answer. You'll get a chance. I assume you have more amendments, so you'll respond to Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary says you can do it in writing. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. That's the amendment we've been through. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29850	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, in Article 9(4), are said to need seven days of local administrations to make up the damage assessment and to establish the records and how they will be compensated, etc. I felt that this proposal was very unserious and that those people who proposed this solution did not know the work of local administrations or the capacities that exist in local administrations and that this proposal was really bad. That is why I suggested that the deadline be 30 days, and I also agree that it is a reasonable deadline and 45 days after Mr Jovanovic's proposal, a colleague who suggested it, gave more space to make the evaluation more thorough, more serious and professional, so that there would be no objections and that there would be no risk of these records being shot down. What my proposal is, and again opens this topic that we have discussed in principle, is related to the new point 7) in this proposal of Article 9, which I have proposed, and as regards this famous funding by local administrations and my motive, I want you to understand, that to bear this amendment was precisely that I thought that the experiences that existed not only in 2015, but also in 2013, 2014 and earlier, which indicate that the state is very ill-sufficient about this system, that people are very often in awe, that they are in a position to pray to God whether there will be a fallout or not, that these experiences have in some way forced local administrations, or the presidents of local administrations to take responsibility to obtain rockets in the previous period, even though they are not allowed to engage the shooters, even though they are not allowed to do so. I felt that this law, Mr. Minister, must, on its basis, give opportunity to both local administrations and associations of citizens and donors and many others, how to help solve these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29851	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You've had 12 seconds from your authorized representative's time and you've spent it, so you don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29852	So that's certainly not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29853	So you check in the service, I have on the computer as well as in the written records, that same information, you check it out, and it's no problem if it turns out to be a mistake, I'll fix it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29854	Since I still have a lot of amendments, I thought that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29855	Two minutes only, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29856	Plus as an authorized promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29857	You're out of time. You spent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29858	How many minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29859	You've spent 15 minutes and your parliamentary group has only 10 seconds left from the time of the parliamentary group, and you've had nothing since the time of the authorised representative. You just spent the last 12 seconds. I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29860	Thank you. So we accepted, agreed, and if that was the methodology of the Ministry of Agriculture which, otherwise, in the assessment of the damage implies an assessment within seven days. We accepted the amendment that fellow Jovanovic submitted, where the actual preliminary assessment of the damage is carried out within seven days, and then final within 45 days at the latest. In any case, a similar amendment to what you have suggested, agreed that sometimes reality in the field as far as the work of local self-government is concerned is different, so we just wanted to rewrite the agriculture ministry's standard to be compatible, so that not every ministry and every law has a different normised area. Since the argument was made by all MPs, and that's something that makes sense, I went on a date and we accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29861	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29862	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29863	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29864	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, was also able to open this topic in previous amendments, but I felt it was very important to stress here in article 10, which says that a competent authority is responsible for the organisation, management, management and implementation of the city's defence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This question of defining the competent authority is being passed all the time and I felt it was good to discuss why this government and the competent ministry did not make it clear, precise and from the first member, that the competent authority of the RHMZ? I simply think that this definition is a very good statement and for the accuracy of the law, to remove all the doubts concerning these procedures, the works of the institution, etc. The impression here is that just because you've been wandering around as a government for several months in this concept as to how you're going to propose a solution and the law, you've come up with a solution that is also a very suspicious capacity. I think it's very important to define both the body's name and its jurisdiction, not to leave it to the government to assess in some of its decisions. As far as decision-making is concerned, it's also an interesting topic. The fact is that today is June 19th, that this law came by emergency procedure and the fact is that you had one concept and one model of law that was withdrawn from the procedure a month ago. The question arises...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29865	Mr. Markovic, please don't let me warn you. Time's up. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm positively surprised that you accepted it from me. I think it's a key amendment. We all know the situation from a month ago where there was no funds in the budget to pay off the shooters. The Bureau didn't predict them, there was no contract with the shooters, there was no training of the shooters, there was no medical examinations. So it turns out there's a rocket, but not at the launch stations. So they weren't served in good time. There are no shooters because they are not temporarily engaged and, of course, trained and not carried out medical examinations. The condition of the equipment was also under a very large question. It is only after the city that funds are allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget from current reserves and is trying to hire shooters. By reading this article carefully, we wanted every failure that apparently happened this year a month ago to be kind of a warning through this amendment, so we intervened in article 11, which says what the competent authority is doing. In point 4 above, point (b) is We've noticed that you've led the competent authority to implement building plans and modernization of facilities and equipment. We wondered who would perform, who would be in charge of maintenance and facilities and equipment, and we added the amendment to item 4. Then, point 8) which says that the competent authority will engage shooters to operate on the city clouds. We insisted on it in this amendment that they be previously trained. Then we added Article 8a. (i.e. point 8a) which states that the mandatory medical examination of the employees for the operation of the city clouds, or trained shooters on launch stations, is one of the competences exercised by the competent authority. In point 12), which says that the competent authority is planning, i.e. to implement the procurement of seeding funds, I think it is extremely important that it stands before the word "procurement" of the word "mere time", because we also had the possibility that the procurement of seeding funds would not be carried out on time, so point 12) is now read – the competent authority plans and implements the timely procurement of seeding funds. It is very important to say that in this Article 11, which speaks of the authority's competences, which also refers to security of access and delivery of missiles and other equipment to radar centres, is surrounded by exactly what has been happening to us this year. So if the competent authority is obliged to deliver the missiles, one of the problems will also be solved. If the competent authority is obliged to carry out timely procurement of radiation funds and the problem will be solved, and also in point 8), where it is said that the competent authority is obliged to hire trained shooters, and the problem from the period a month ago will also be resolved, and of course all of them must carry out medical examinations. So I'm simply surprised by the adoption of this amendment, and I think it will be useful just in the situations that happened to us this year. I think he will warn future situations similar to this, and I thank you once again for adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29867	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Vladimir Stojanovic and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29868	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is another in a series of amendments that we consider to be essentially the beginning of the amendment to Article 6. There are several more that are generally, to say, conditionally, identical to the other members, so that I would not answer by any means, I would like to say once again that DS MPs believe that... (Alexander Markovic throws out of place. What? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29869	Mr. Markovic, let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29870	So DS MPs believe that the more comprehensive and better solution is that we have had more curricula of political, political understanding and that we have gone in the direction of forming an agency, regardless of all the criticisms that have been put out here on a flat-rate basis because no one has done what would be useful and benefit of that agency if we look at today that we have an emergency minister who can hardly justify his being in government, and that he is also a great cost and that no one is concerned about it, and it is obvious that the household is not doing business. We believe that simply for narrow political reasons, you take great responsibility for yourself by not wanting to listen adequately, nor to accept, we consider, a good proposal. I believe you're aware that you're taking responsibility for Parliament no matter what vote is made here. You're the promoter, according to us, of a bad law and everything that happens as planned to protect the city will practically go on your word, personally, because we warn you, you've had opportunities, and this is not the first time I've told you, to make a system step, to do something that would be much better in years ahead of us. My deep conviction is that in the summer we will surely regret what you are about to do, and I believe that in the coming years we will go towards another solution. It's not the only argument I've been saying is that there are various agencies in the world and who does it. So I simply believe that Serbia must solve problems in ways that suit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29871	Time, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29872	Can I have another 10 seconds and I won't be answering any more members?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29873	No, no. I'm just warning you to finish your sentence after you've used these 10 seconds you have as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29874	We've got five more members in two minutes. So, I can answer for...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29875	It's not a problem. I asked you and warned you that your time had expired, that you had spent 10 seconds and that you were bringing an end to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29876	Let me just say it again. Mr. Minister, we've exhausted the possibilities and the RHMZ that was before and the MUP. So a solution should be sought which would have been more appropriate because if it had been good before, I suppose former Minister Dacic would not have accepted it to be in the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29877	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29878	I don't mind if we start one day and have the most recent discussion about how to fix the emergency protection system and everything. We will have a new law on emergency situations I hope very soon before the National Assembly, but in no way will it, I will repeat as many times as it takes today, it does not touch protection from the city. Emergency situations have nothing to do with the protection of the city not in Serbia but in any country of Europe and the world. The Russian Federation has an entire ministry, a huge ministry for the entire territory of the Russian Federation, which also deals with the protection of emergency situations, but does not deal with protection from the city. It's simply not the natural jurisdiction of the Emergency Sector. I can do it again, no matter how many times it goes out, it won't be hard for me. Every time I repeat this, it's about two different things, emergency situations and protection from the city. The protection from the city naturally goes to an institution that deals with hydrometeorological forecasts, monitors the development of clouds, predicts, shoots radar and says – take action to protect the fruits and crops, and naturally, administrative supervision has the Ministry of Agriculture which is most near peasants, i.e. people who own orans, interested in anti-urban protection. It's a natural system, then. Also, we must encourage the citizens of our country because we know that anti-building protection is the best possible in the world only 70%. So 30% can always happen with all the anti-building protection facts and we have to encourage people in our country to be more serious in terms of ensuring what their life does, what they live, what it is, to say, basic assets. We all secure cars because it's so prescribed by law and we don't secure our crops, we don't secure our fields.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29879	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has the People's MPs Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29880	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 12 speaks of the functional structure of the city's defence system, and within that article, it lists what the Republic Defence Centre is doing to the city, or what its obligations are. We noticed that item 6 of Section 1 states that the Republic Defence Center of the City provides a unique technical maintenance of the radar network, but then we wondered who would uniquely technically maintain the equipment on the launch stations? And in the principle debate, I said -- they're not gonna do that to the shooters, are they? In order for that equipment to be functional, it was necessary that this unique maintenance be attributed as an obligation to the Republic Defence Centre against the city, and I think it is a good thing that this amendment is accepted, so we will know who, apart from the radar network, uniquely maintains the equipment located in the launch cell complexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29881	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29882	In Article 13(3), I considered it necessary to specify a formulation that said that restrictions concerning the construction of new buildings, the destruction of old objects, etc., reconstruction of existing ones, could be introduced in the surrounding areas of the radar system network, in respect of the construction of new buildings, the destruction of old ones, etc. Instead of the wording "can be" I proposed the wording "limits are introduced". For what? This problem, along with my colleagues from the DS parliamentary group, I took it very seriously. We've given 23 members of the law nearly 30 amendments that need to fix these proposals, and we realize that some things can't be fixed when the concept is what it is. I'm glad you understood this amendment and this proposal, but I'm sorry that many other proposals have not been accepted. You take responsibility for a very important job. I agree with my colleague Sutanovac, who expressed his doubts about this concept and the application of this law. By adopting such a bad bill, you took responsibility. The fact that you think you've just transferred responsibility from one ministry to another and thus annuled everything that was bad in the previous period is your position, or your bad judgment. What I think is going to happen in the next period is that the application of this law is going to be very bad, that you didn't understand the responsibility and that you didn't point out the procedure is something that will certainly be a harmful consequence of the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29883	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29884	I just have to tell you, I don't think you understand the best system of government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't pass the law, the Ministry, or the government just proposes it, the National Assembly adopts it. You can talk by tomorrow morning whatever you want, the law is very clear and the Constitution. The National Assembly is authorized that you can say it now – this is not good. The MPs elected by the people in the direct democratic elections can say – this is not a good bill, we disagree. If the National Assembly adopts it, it means that the National Assembly agrees that this is a good bill. It's not running away from responsibility. We've proposed it, so we've been doing this for a matter that hasn't existed since 1992. No one was editing her, there was no desire, there wasn't this or that, anyway. In any case, it's being arranged now, transferred to an institution that's been fighting the city for 48 years. I'm sure it's accumulated knowledge, experience, everything that's happened now has to give results, absolutely. It was completely unnatural to put in the only institution where nowhere in the world exists. Absolutely nowhere in the world the MUP is concerned with protection from the city. That sounds absurd when you tell people on the street to put police protection against the city, that sounds ridiculous, that sounds absolutely grotesque, totally illogical. It doesn't exist anywhere, nobody even experimented, so they try to see how it's going to be, except in Serbia, and it hasn't turned out right. The Emergency Sector people have fire protection, they have flood protection, they have a thousand other emergency situations they need to focus on, and this is so torn up that the Ministry was given to, or to the Emergency Sector to get missiles. All the senselessness has proved in the past few years and we have come up with solutions that will certainly be better than before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29885	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Which one do you think is the basis of Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Direct address. The minister just said I don't understand the law. Mr. Markovic, really, please. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: He said I don't understand the law. ) Do you feel that you are mentioned in a negative context? You're not. Mr. Markovic, please don't. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29886	Mr Minister, we have absorbed, I think it is clear to all of Serbia that there are two concepts, your concept that you are proposing and that you are already building on now if it is accepted by MPs. There is no doubt that your MPs will accept it, but you must have complete awareness that your predecessor sat here four years ago, he proposed that law which you now say is ridiculous. Your predecessor suggested that it go to the M.O.P. I was against it then, I remind you. Don't put anything on us, as you say, from the former regime, caressing your predecessor's head, the current foreign minister, the then interior minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister and the deputy prime minister, who not only wasn't against it, but he advocated it. No matter what your colleagues tell you right now, I'm telling you he's advocating it. Which is why, I wouldn't know to tell you, it's possible that exactly what you're saying, the purchases were done, maybe he was interested, I don't know, but the fact is that it was done at the time. As you say, parliament made the decision then, but the solution to the problem is not to determine who it is and when it has made that bad decision, but to try to correct it in an adequate way, comprehensive, good, right way. You have your vision, we have our vision. The responsibility for what's going to happen from this moment on will be on you. No matter what the Assembly votes for, no matter what the Members of Parliament vote for what's wrong, tomorrow don't talk about how Parliament brought it, so you've only got so much to do with it that you've proposed. You are a senior party official who votes majority for this and do not have a dilemma that Serbian citizens will know that your responsibility is on you. We had another concept, to accept that we shared responsibility. You don't want it, thank you very much, and don't speak in advance that you're practically not directly involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29887	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29888	It is clear that DS lawmakers voted for this law in 2011, as if they had not voted he would not have been adopted. So, like then, the majority partner is mostly responsible for this ridiculous and bad law that was passed. I still think it's a bad law and a bad solution. That's what happened in practice. I'm not interested in motives at all, not even when he suggested it. What is an absolute fact, the majority of the government, the Prime Minister, the president of the National Assembly, in that period Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, however, was before that Mr. Dulic, therefore, all these people had as part of the then government the idea of supporting the government, who proposed on behalf of the government. Again, we must say that it was the Ministry Act that was then proposed. The Ministry Act does not state, as we do today, the anti-urban protection system. So, there's just putting in jurisdiction, which I think is wrong, whoever took it, whether it's Mr. Dacic or anyone else. I think the wrong assessment was to take over the M.O.P. The fact that we haven't had a law since 1992, that's the problem, because this is the law we're solving the anti-urban protection system. The Ministry Act only solves who's in charge. The Ministry of Defence could also write, and could write any other ministry. But by this law, which we hope to adopt today, which is what the National Assembly will adopt, we are solving the issue of anti-urban protection in a new way. It's completely unnatural to be in the MUP, being in the RHMZ, which is much more natural. As far as emergency situations are concerned, we'll see in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29889	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. Mr. Markovic, as you can see, I listen very carefully, the DS has been mentioned, and you, as an authorised representative, have the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29890	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, this is really about the conflict of two concepts. All the time we insist that the minister of this government has no right to have the laws adopted in the previous period demoted in this way. His discussion and insistence that there was no law in the previous period led Mr Babic to say in his presentation several hours ago that the decision had been annulled. He views the 2011 Ministry Act as a decision and all MPs who later discuss the subject think it does not exist, that it does not apply. What is certain from all these discussions that have been in these two days on this subject is that what you are talking about in this way contributes to the fact that there is no responsibility, that there is no planning 130 million in the budget for this year for the shooters, that there are no contracts with the shooters, that there are major disasters that you do not respond to. That's exactly the context we're talking about. If you're saying that the Ministry Act is a decision, then that means the non-action of institutions on the ground in the application of this law. Then that means we have the disaster we have and that's exactly what we're talking about. Your responsibility is great and you've taken responsibility with this concept for something you don't believe in. The hole in the budget that exists, over 500 million dinars, tells us that you have unseriously prepared this law. You say they don't need new funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29891	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29892	Just because people who are closely following this debate, I must say that, of course, the government cannot make any regulation or decision that puts the law out of force. This can only be done by the National Assembly with a special law, as it did in 1992, and by Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia number 18/92, the Law on the termination of the Anti-Build Protection Act. So, if the National Assembly has passed the Law on the termination of the Anti-Build Protection Act, and has not adopted a new one so far, it would be interesting for me to have someone legally explain to me how that law exists. It's legal, I think, a very interesting subject and I'm sure the lawyers will give some answer to that question. The Ministry Act, and it really won't be hard for me to repeat it as many times as it takes today, if someone thinks I'm lazy, I really won't, it'd be the same as if they didn't adopt the Police Act, and they said the Ministry Act and the Ministry is in charge of doing these and these police jobs, but we don't need the Police Act, it's perfectly normal, according to the Ministry Act. We have the law, and then we're free to adopt the Agricultural Land and Planning and Construction Act. It's all done for nothing. This should only be put into the Ministry Act, count the powers and institutions that are responsible for it, and then let sublegal acts and however they think of it, edit that matter. Why do we need laws in this country? So you can't observe the system that way. The law doesn't exist. The responsibility is for all those who have refused to pass the anti-urban protection law for years, for all those who have seen these damages that have been, including according to Zahari Trnavčević, and for one hundred million euros in one year. All those who have seen it and have not passed the law are responsible for both the people and the state, and they will not escape from that responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29893	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Markovic, you have no right to a replica now. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29894	What someone in this room keeps trying not to understand and doesn't want to understand is that so far there's been no law on anti-building protection. Please state to me the "Official Messenger" and the session of the Serbian Parliament when it was adopted and adopted. It's one transfer of jurisdiction, so now as hot potatoes, we're moving from one ministry to another and we're playing a little bit. Why, then, did this transfer of jurisdiction occur? To cover the catastrophic consequences of the city in Gornji Milanovac, which destroyed crops that year. Now let's cover our responsibilities a little bit by transferring it to the M.O.P., and a little bit of who knows where. A law like this law of defense against the city so far has never been. After all, this system that you were happy to play with and, as you say, the conflict of concepts, philosophy, did it prevent in your direction, or was there a better defense than the city? It's not. In 2010, on June 25, at this time five years ago, according to the Commission's report, the damage in the Valjev region, caused by the city and the weather affecting Valjevo and Valjevsky end of 16, 19 and 21 June 2010, amounted to 484 million dinars, of which only 427 million dinars were destroyed on agricultural goods alone. In 2010, the damage in the Danube region was 200 million dinars, Cačak, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29895	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29896	Did this philosophy of yours prevent this kind of damage? It's not. Give this law a chance to show better than the previous system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29897	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has its people's ambassador Zoran Zivkovic Mr Markovic, you can get the right to a replica if someone talks to you, if they mention you in a negative context, if they mention your name and last name, in this case as an authorised representative if they mention DS or DS President, Mr Pajtic. [[Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I don't have the right to reply?]] In those cases you have the right to replicate, and by thinking that at some point... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: It's just not direct.) Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away. Your anxiety somewhere else, you don't have to go to the big National Assembly room. If you think someone misread you or something, I as chairman can't interpret everyone's exposure to assess it. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29898	I've been using for five minutes. This debate has gone a long way. We have an analysis of various authorities in Serbia, there since 1960 and some years, when anti-building protection started, to this day. That's how it happens when we're dealing with something that's too much noise about not such a big deal. Of course, protecting from the city is a big deal, but the whole system, its organization, the cost of that system is something that, we already had data here, costs five -- six million euros per year. So it can be arranged in a very simple way. There's no need for there to be a law on everything, that's what we've been saying. Many of the things that matter for the life of one state and one society are not defined by law, but they have a source in some law, which would be the Ministry Act, where that jurisdiction is assigned to someone, and all these things are dealt with by sublaw. This law, as far as I can see, has twenty members, so that's also saying that it's not at all legal matter. Since 1992, since there has been no law definitively defining it, there has been protection from the city, under various authorities, and various authorities have changed so they have not passed the law. So, that transfer doesn't make any sense. All parties in parliament today were at some point in power from 1992 to today. And that transfer, who did what, I don't think it's a very important thing. I think it's more important that we talk about the term when the law is passed, that it's too late, that big damage happened, as it happened in 2010, as it did some years ago. In a principle debate, the minister told me to remember in August 2003, when the town of Zrenjanin killed crops, including a window at a church. I have to admit, I don't remember, but the best thing about why this happened is to ask Goran Knezevic, who was the mayor at the time, and today he's your colleague, so he'll remember better who he was guilty of. What I see in the material, and it's also about this member we're talking about, it's a cost report for last year. It says here, on page 14, that units of local self-government have spent a hundred million dinars to purchase three thousand anti-building missiles. As I recall, the price of these missiles was around 130-140 euros in 2003. If this information is correct that a hundred million dinars were given for three thousand rockets, this means that they were paid twice as expensive as their market price was in 2003, and hardly that price grew. In the meantime, since these are domestic products, so we have our own, we have Chinese, and I think there's a lot of reason here to make a serious investigation into who's in charge of this and to see what prices these missiles have bought. Of course, this also speaks of the senselessness to take on three or four levels of government, that three levels of government take responsibility for one area. So, it should be, I totally agree with the fact that it shouldn't be in the MUP, but I am totally against that there are competences of local self-government, the competences of the AP Vojvodina and the jurisdiction of the Serbian state in this area for five million euros a year. This should be done by one department in the Hydrometeorological Institute, which will deal with all, and estimates and maintenance of radar and buying new ones that are very bad, old, united in the purchase of rockets, which should be 20 grand on an annual basis, in order to be safe, by service, by paying people who fire those missiles, it should be centralised and there is no doubt there. So let's make a little less noise about something than start working. I'm sure there are people at the Hydrometeorological Institute who can organize it in a very simple way, without a great deal of debate about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29899	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29900	I agree on this last sentence, I've been saying since the first day of the debate in principle. As far as this other question of yours is concerned, it means, precise information -- in 2001, one rocket was paid to 440 marks of that time. Accurate data, one man who's been dealing with it for many years, no sales tax plus tax, 440 taxes plus tax. No, it was tax-free, but plus tax would have been paid on this if it hadn't been tax-free. Right, here's the man who's been doing it, here, sitting in two places from me, doing it for 20 years. I wasn't really into it, this is the first time. The second thing, in 2003, was paid about 210 euros. This year, up to sixkm of missiles have been paid 22,000 dinars, slightly less than that amount, when it turns into the euro value. So, always, since 2000, domestic missiles have been purchased here, since they're on the market, at least at this time as far as I'm at the head of the ministry, I know it's totally true, but here people say they haven't been acquired before, because Chinese rockets don't have atheists that meet our standards. Well, that's all the information, just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29901	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Just give me the basics of your interpretation of the replicas. I know a member, too, a number, but the basis of that. You've got the answer. I can hear you completely. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Because you can't hear me.]] (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Because my words are misread. You've been misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29902	It wasn't my idea to transfer the current government to this for 3,000 rockets for a hundred million. So there are probably various authorities in these municipalities, not just SNS. Anyway, I think it's too much of a price. I remember well that it was just in 2003, and I would like to be heard by a man who knows it, from the Ministry, was a big fuss about it because one party, which no longer exists now and was a DOS member, had no doubt pushed those Chinese missiles. The Chinese rockets were pushed by Orlic, and I'm not going to tell him my client's name or name, so I don't raise his price. Secondly, they were bought the same rockets in one place, not one place, but a separatist one. Some were purchased by local self-government, some by the state and then by the competent authority. What's the point of what I was gonna say? The point is that it's overpaid and that these missiles can be bought much cheaper when they're bought together, there's no doubt about it. It's certain that in this pile of 3,000 for a hundred million, if they scratch well, you'll find something to scratch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29903	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word from the MPs? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29904	Dear Ministers, the President-in-Office, respected fellow MPs, this is one of the most important members of this law, so Article 14 concerning the financing of this system. What was the motive for submitting this amendment? So, the proposal states that this system is financed from the Republic's budget, from part of the insurance premium and from other sources. I felt that this member was important because it was necessary to give opportunities to other participants in this process, primarily local administrations, associations of citizens, donors and everyone interested in the functioning and functioning of this system, the ability to finance it. What is the basic motive, Minister Stefanovic? In light of the law, it says here that in 2014 the Ministry allocated 438 million dinars for this system and that local administrations allocated 160 million dinars. Why local administrations were making money, even though the presidents of the municipalities knew they couldn't, by law, do it, precisely because there wasn't enough money, there weren't enough missiles, there weren't enough contracts with the shooters, and people were doing it on the ground so that it wouldn't happen to Ariel, Ivanica, Uzice, Chačak, King and everything that happened this year. I was just aware that this year's budget wasn't enough money because 287 million were allocated, and I was looking for solutions to ensure that this system was additionally funded. You reacted and singled out 80 million more dinars on May 14th, on the day of the death of Ariel and Ivanica, together that's 360 million. According to an estimate of service and professional people, there are another 500 million dinars missing to fund the system. That was the motive I proposed the amendment for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29905	Thank you. To you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29906	Thank you. I just have to say when we talk about the estimates of professional people, these people are in the MUP, where they came from. These people didn't give those estimates. These people you read about aren't experts in anti-urban protection, they just don't do it. They'll do it, but they don't do it now. These people who were in RHMZ, they went to the MUP, and now in the MUP, they're doing it, they didn't give that assessment. That's what people who want to cover all their holes with these means, that's the ideal model for you. Give us another 500, 600 million, and we'll see what we can do with those funds. That's not an estimate of professional service. Maybe it's someone's assessment, but if we're talking about the profession, the profession is here today, amongst these people who are now in the MUP and they didn't give that assessment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29907	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. There's no replica now, there's no basis for anything. You're not misread. The minister has the right to express his opinion on what is in the bill. So it wasn't any controversy. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together have submitted an amendment proposing that after Article 14, Article 14a be added. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Jovan Markovic, reporting from the scene. You don't have any more time. Just to see if you're in the signatories of the amendment. No, you're not among the signatories of the amendment, and you've wasted your time. I don't know how to explain it. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29908	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, in Article 15(1), should be amended and it should read: "It is necessary for the insurance company to pay registered economic holdings up to 10 months for the financing of the city's defence system 10% of the premium paid in respect of crops and fruit covered by the law, so that it does not increase that insurance company's declared premium by 10 months for the previous month." With this amendment, we wanted to warn the possibility that due to that obligation they would pay a certain amount from the premium paid by the insurance company, by increasing the premium for farmers to compensate for this amount of their obligation. You know what they say, everything that the law does not forbid is allowed, I essentially believe that such possibilities should not remain open to the possibility, that they should be defined, in order to prevent the different interpretation of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29909	National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29910	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, an honest key member of the law, a law that provides for a way of funding, but a way of funding to be 10% of the crop insurance is absolutely insufficient. I have to remind you, here is Mr. Stefanovic sitting next to Mr. Predrag Maric, I believe he knows this well, but I'm just going to say a few facts because of my fellow MPs. We currently have about 450 thousand registered owners in Serbia. The assessment is official, obtained by the Ministry of Agriculture, that between 8% and 10% of those 450 thousand registered owners secured their agricultural cultures. If you can easily see this, the average insurance policy in agriculture is not over 80,000 dinars. Now if you add all of that up nicely, subtract, and multiply, you'll have a maximum of 140 million dinars if there's a 10% figure left. Let that rise by another percent, two, that's about 180 million dinars. For the normal functioning of this system, at least sixm euros is needed for the minimum amount. Optimally between eight and nine million, but let's go to some minimum. Then I wonder where this is going to be financed from. It's a key thing. That's why I suggested that this percentage rise to 50%. Why do I think it's important to be 50%? I set an example for some countries in the environment, e.g. It is 25% in Croatia. Fifty percent think it's justified, because our insurance houses are extremely rude, especially when it comes to the insurance of agricultural crops. I have already noted that only in Serbia is there a system when the insurance company provides for example. fruit of fruit, that according to the resulting damage from the same insurance house, the appraisers come out and, of course, always assess less than is real damage, because who's going to assess more and pay more. That is why you as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the RES and our MPs are also tasked, and we must change that. Due to this insolence of insurance houses, the percentage that 50% of the purchases of insurance houses should simply be made available to a special fund to finance anti-urban protection, because frankly in this way they earn a rudely high profit. I have to remind you, and Mr. Maric knows it well, we, for example, in Šumadia, here in Topoli, where I come from, we have court disputes that have been going on since 2010 with insurance houses and the largest insurance houses in Serbia, which, one year when the city was not adequately assessed. In this way, if they only have 10% left to pay off the policies they charge from farmers, or peasants through registered landowners, it is extremely little for them. That's true, I have to say, in a funny and rude way, and that's why I'm asking you, if you think we have a sustainable system that can be funded in an adequate way, and that tomorrow we don't worry about whether we're going to have enough rockets, whether we're going to have the means to pay the shooters, whether we're going to have the resources to maintain the radar systems that are key to make this system unique, effective, and in an adequate way to give answers to all the problems that are coming, you need to increase this amount. I sincerely ask you, I believe that the initiative launched by the Committee on Agriculture, that 5% of the renting on state-owned agricultural land is also important and that it can actually get a significant amount of money, but I'm afraid it's on a long stick, because it also requires amendments to the laws on agricultural land and everything else. It's gonna be hard to do everything by the end of this calendar year, and we need it over to have the funds as soon as possible. These funds can only be obtained if this percentage of insurance houses is charged and I don't think it really needs to be cut down to increase in this percentage because, I say, insurance houses on the ground are acting very rudely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29911	The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinovi, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29912	Thank you, Madam President. And our amendment applies to Article 15, and we think that financing the entire city's defence system is very complicated, and I find it the hardest part of the issue, and it's about defense from the city. I would agree with my colleague Jovanovic in part. At that time, we talked to your colleagues about whether there was at all a possibility that other than agricultural landowners would be partially taxed, or that those who are insured and not registered agricultural land would be allowed to take 10% of the premiums. In this regard, we have also made an amendment and we have received a new position on this Article 15, which is, by the proposed amendment, we propose a solution to which the city's defence system is financed not only from a certain percentage of the premium of insurance, crops and fruits paid by registered agricultural holdings, which have that obligation, but by certain percentage payments from the premium of crop and fruit insurance paid by other insurance companies, whether or not they have such an obligation. We received an answer from the government saying that according to NBS data, registered agricultural holdings are normally provided, and a significant inflow of funds is not expected to be achieved in such a way that farmers who are not registered, since they are claimed to be mostly poor, elderly households, not to be expected to have a larger inflow of funds. However, this second part of the answer seems far more important to me than this first one, and the answer shows that a consensus has been reached on this bill with insurance companies, and unilateral changes in agreed solutions could affect market disturbances. Does this mean that you have consulted insurance companies in drawing up the draft of this law and that you have obtained agreement on the percentage agreed, proposed by this law, and is there at all a possibility that this percentage will increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29913	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29914	During the drafting of the law, of course in a comprehensive public debate but also in contacts, we have talked to both the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and insurance companies and associations of producers, simply the only way if you want to resolve this seriously and responsibly, without affecting your country's capital attraction, or at the level of competitiveness, on the different scales in which the Republic of Serbia is placed, when it explains to foreign investors how it is done in our country, of course, that possibility of telling you to introduce some new parafiscal burdens, which could not be in line with the commitments made from the European Akia. We've been trying to do everything we do, we're doing according to some arrangement. After all, it is important to say that the increase in this would also bring it to the end users. Anything more they commit to give to the state, they won't do it on their own, they'll transfer it to whoever pays the premium, they'll raise the premium price levels themselves, which will eventually be transferred to the producers, and then if they've paid 80,000 dinars so far, they'll put 300 or 400 thousand dinars, and they'll, as far as they're concerned, make the total amount, but they'll be bigger to the farmer. It was the only reason we put this number.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29915	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29916	Article 16 paragraph 1 of point 3 should change and should read - the engagement of contractors to operate on city clouds - shooters on launch stations, their training, uniforms and legitimacy. Also, in attitude 2, we think that a change is needed – the amount of the monthly fee for the work of the shooters, and we do not think that it should be greater than 50%. We think the current 20% is extremely small. We believe it is important that in the jurisdiction of the Republic, and in the area of defence against the city, the obligation to train the shooters, and also, we need it because of the importance of the work they are doing, to provide adequate uniforms and IDs for the purpose of self-recognition. The level of 20% currently regulated, we believe, is low and felt that 50% of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia are simply adequate and that it could have a stimulating effect on the quality of the service performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29917	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29918	Thank you, Madam President. Article 16 speaks about what the Republic of Serbia is funding. We have also proposed amendments to Article 11 and amendments to point 3 in which we have actually said that - the Republic is funding the engagement of contractors to operate on city clouds, or trained shooters on launch stations. It's actually just a alignment with what's already been adopted. Then we added item 3a, i.e. point 3a, where it is said that mandatory medical examinations of employed executioners to operate on the city clouds, or trained shooters on launch stations. So the Republic of Serbia would finance health checks on hired shooters. We have tried to find in the law whoever will finance it and it is put into Article 11 as a responsibility of the competent authority, the involvement of shooters, health checks. However, there is no funding. I think it's important to know who's going to finance health checks on trained shooters and I think there's a leak. As far as this second part of the amendment is concerned, it concerns the amount of the monthly fee for the work of the shooters and the bill says that the amount of the monthly fee cannot exceed 20% of the net earnings in the Republic of Serbia, according to the latest data from the republican authority in charge of statistics affairs. We think that the limit that says it can't be bigger, it can be much more stretching, it can be 3%, it can be 5%, it can be 7%, and we've suggested a change that says it can't be less than 20%. Also, we think that the shooters would finally be satisfied with the compensation they would get to do their unsimple jobs. Over a month ago, there were statements from various gunmen who worked for 18 years, where they were said to never for a period of which they were engaged, which is 18 years, there was no situation for them to be hired in March. After the government's decision to separate 80 million dinars from the permanent budget reserve for the compensation to the shooters at the end of 2,400 dinars, the shooters' reaction was quite justified and I think their formulation is simply amazing and it's humiliating to work for 2,400 dinars. We've kind of had a rough count, and if you were to adopt this proposal, the amount of this monthly fee would be about eight or nine thousand, let's say by the average of April. I ask you one more time, who will finance the examinations of the shooters, I suppose the reasoning shows that the Republic of Serbia does not have, that thanks to this fiscal policy it is leading and planning the funds under the programme budget, it is not possible to allocate more funds for the shooters' compensation, so I suppose that part of the amendment is out of the question, the acceptance of this amendment is out of the question, but I call on you to consider who will finance the health checks of the shooters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29919	Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. Here you go. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29920	I tried to protect the shooters, or to secure some solid profit, or compensation for their work. You, Minister Stefanovic, predicted that it was 20% and 20%, respectively, of the average salary in Serbia. It could be 5% and 6%, so it could be two and three and four thousand. You, Mr. Stefanovic, you probably know, you've certainly been informed that we have the lowest wages in the world. Of the 140 countries where the wages are measured, we have the lowest wage. So, of these, and of course the PRECRET Movement advocates returning wages to the level before the cuts and pensions before the cuts, but we advocate that these shooters who are supposed to provide or preserve Serbia from the city, agricultural land, orchards, etc. They've got a bigger fee. Mr. Stefanovic, I'll tell you where to secure it, because you said in your explanation that there was no means to do so. Get those 3.7 billion euros you were supposed to withdraw for infrastructure facilities, which due to the incompetence of this government are not engaged, and so they don't pay the penalty there, give them to the shooters qualified, trained to keep the farmers of Serbia from the city, or their agricultural crops, here in that place, not to mention those 70,000 of yesterday spent in Mladenovac for lunch in the municipality of Mladenovac, the representative of SNS, when they managed to get most of them, and things like that. Just take from these undrawn funds that you could withdraw and not pay for the penalty on these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29921	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29922	I must say that you have been misinformed, we, unlike your authorities, pay our own bills, which is seen by the costs we spend on a team that is not or is minimal, and in your time they ate these lambs, lambs and pigs, then it was a daily phenomenon, not only in Mladenov, but also in other municipalities. However, we did not elect the presidents of municipalities who poured fuel on their private pumps for all municipalities. After all, the president of the municipality has been called by the court twice. In the first degree and in the second degree, where he confirmed the verdict, and now we have a judicial verdict against the president of the municipality called Dejan Ciocic. We have a court ruling, not a party, not a political one, mine or your speculation, such a flat-rate assessment. Now the court has said he's guilty, the court, and the court's decision has to be respected. We don't have such community presidents. You were, at the time you were complicated, one family, while different interests bound you, that's what you were putting on, and that's why there are no shooters, which is why there are no educational workers, which is why we were, unfortunately, forced to cut salaries and pensions and pay in the public sector, and we left the pensions for 61% of the pensioners in the same amount, in addition to the huge debts and problems that those who ate the lambs and pigs were doing on the burning plants that you left us with.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29923	Replica, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29924	Mr. Stefanovic, I don't know who ate lambs and pigs, I know that yesterday the leadership of your municipality, Mladenovac, made an account signed by the president, or vice president of the municipality. On the other hand, I said I wouldn't want to talk about it, but you didn't answer me why your government, where you're sitting, along with Minister Mihajlovic, why didn't you withdraw the loans you took from the east to the west, to build Serbia, to build roads, railways, etc? Why didn't you withdraw these loans, which is why you didn't turn Serbia into what you promised in the election into a major construction site, with a lot of cranes being built, but that money is on the bank's account, and you're paying the penalty points? Mr. Stefanovic, you have no reason to. You don't have that explanation, and that's why you didn't answer me. Why don't you spend these funds in defense of the city that these people who are shooters, who are supposed to defend the agricultural holdings from the city to pay them adequately, not give them two, three, four thousand of which cannot survive, Mr Stefanovic? Do you know that? Do you think that with these means you can disrupt the shooter so that he can be effective, that he concentrates on the work he does? Do you think someone for such funds can be effective and do this job? Just take what you've done, because you haven't withdrawn the funds, take the funds that Ms. Mihajlovic admitted, to work with the incompetent directors you've set up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29925	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go. Replic or discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29926	A discussion, though it might be a replica for mentioning the SNS. Speaking of which, I'd like to inform my esteemed colleague, Veselinović, not to abuse, not to insinuate, not to use a more difficult word, which is not to tell the truth. The Serbian Progressive Party signed and replaced one of the presidents of the Mladenovac municipality, against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted, but was also convicted because of the miracles of Mladenovac under his chairmanship buying fuel from his pump, for example, and that we will always fight to get such presidents out of power, but the SNS is not in power in Mladenov. Therefore, these lambs and pigs that are in Mr. Veselinovic's head are likely to be from the time when he exercised power or to the memory of all that is done in the AP Vojvodina. I would prefer that he calculated those funds for shooters by Bojan Pajtic from the AP's budget to his party friends who are owners or representatives of some humanitarian organisations. Look at the wonders, all humanitarian organizations only members of the DS and hands and hats are given only to them. Why didn't you say so - stand up, my friend, so that all citizens can't have property? Don't turn that money on the shooters. On the other hand, we, Mr. Minister, would have had much more resources for shooters to say Sasa Dragin didn't do what he did within his ministry, within the Azotara, if they hadn't gone to the privates and himself in his pocket and the judicial authorities weren't dealing with him right now. There'd be a lot more for shooters if it weren't for Oliver Dulic's optical cables. It would have been much more for shooters if Bulevar was King Alexander, for example, in Belgrade, whose reconstruction cost sixm euros more. So watch what with six million euros, as much as we could pay those shooters, but I see that here some policy of some fictitious, because without the support of citizens, the signatures of the law, are fictitious associations, and I see that we have more EPP of some small foreigners, small parties and fictitious associations here, and that we cannot use this for the EPP. That EPP reads – you know, we make everything. We'd give money and resources, of all things, good wishes to fulfill what we need, but it's unserious because when you've exercised power, you've spent, you've nicked, you've torn, you've kidnapped, you've stolen everything. You've brought us to such an opportunity that this year alone we give a billion and 200 million euros for interest. On the increase, you had to think about these beautiful desires when your friends and your comrades, who you supported from these benches, instead of exercising power, instead of working for the benefit of Serbian citizens, were stealing, being poor, kidnapping. That's when you had to think. Otherwise, the population within the EPP, the movements that don't exist, I beg you, we from this assembly speaker have to talk about something that exists and it's right for the gentleman to appear, that there is, and then we'll talk about the percentage of the amendment that's been adopted. Here, I can boast, my 12 amendments were adopted, 100 percent. If I transfer that to SNS support, great, I'd love to, we'll try. But don't propagate something that doesn't exist. Some movements here are advertised, and they don't support citizens with certified signatures, certified in court. We can't use something like that. One is registration, the other is support. Legitimity is given by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's early for these amendments. I think that we are on the way to heal our public finances, the difficult measures, the painful measures, the measures they have taken, understood and supported the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and from now on in Serbia will live on what is earned, not on what is taken as a loan or I don't know what. You can't live off the unsuspecting, and all these propagandas and all these EPPs are pure imaginations, beautiful desires, you know, we would do that, and that there's no support in public finances, that there's no support in the economy, that there's no support in finance, so who cares, it's important that they protect, protect everyone, and while they were supposed to protect, they were carrying home, they were kidnapping. In what way? How? You know, I would now like to be irresponsible, as some were irresponsible, so they said -- a thousand euros per capita in 2008, only to make Boris Tadic the president of the state. And? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: What is this amendment? I'd like to ask my colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29927	You'd be kind enough to sit down and pick up the phone later. I'll explain what the subject is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29928	... I would ask my colleague if the subject of the amendment was an increase in the amount of shooters, I explain that the increase in the amount is for shooters. (Jovan Markovic, from the city: What is the topic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29929	Ambassador, I'm going to have to ask someone to take you out if you act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29930	It's impossible, because of what you've taken, stolen, stolen and destitute, and that now your beautiful desires are impossible because of the irresponsible policy you've led. I can understand that you don't like it, but it's true, but that's what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel. You can also spread your arms and say if it's a theme. I tell you why such a thing is impossible, because of the opportunities missed in the past, because of the irresponsible policy you've been leading, because of the increase you've been doing just because of the political points, because of the things you've done, and they have no basis in the economy, in logic, in finance, in anything. You did it and you didn't care about the future. You've been thinking if we come to power, if we stay in power, we'll do something, if someone else comes, we'll ask them what you'll do. It is irresponsible that you now have a solution for everything by increasing it. You can only increase if you return what you stole, only if you twist your pockets and give back to people in Serbia all that you have earned during the exercise of power. Only in this way and then can we talk about increases and only then are these increases real and possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29931	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. ) I think the replica should be obtained by Dr. Janko Veselinovic. You'll get it, there's a line. First Dr. Vesenović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29932	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, you took 17 seconds away from my time. So this is the solution to the registration of the Turnover Movement, and the verification of it in the elections will be seen in the next local, provinceal, whoever comes. So much for that, Mr. Granny. On the other hand, I'm not Mr. Pitiæ's lawyer. Ask Mr. Pajtic, since you are in 30 local self-government with him in the coalition, about these questions you asked me. I don't want to talk about your former party, about the SRS and everything she's done for the Republic of Serbia. So please don't look inside me for a DS lawyer. I just want to say that today I tried to point to Minister Stefanovic the failures made during the review of the amendments. I believe that Minister Stefanovic and the government have not made enough efforts to analyse these amendments, to make as much solid a law as possible, so that it knows whose responsibility is and what if that responsibility remains, who will be responsible for a new city that will devastate a village, an Atar in Vojvodina, in Macva, southern Serbia and who will be responsible, whether the government, local self-government, as Mr Stefanovic says, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Stefanovic today accused the National Assembly, in which the SNS with the SPS is mostly three years old, for three years. So, you, gentlemen, are responsible for the city's desolation of Ataris in Vojvodina, or Serbia. I'm sorry, I don't think it's responsible, that this government is responsible, that it's Minister Stefanovic, who could have pre-warned, along with the previous minister, that this doesn't happen, that everything is invested, that there be both funds and money for the shooters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29933	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29934	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, has been a few days since the great city that has hit Uzice and the surrounding area. People today, after five, six days from that city, are, as they say, running shoes from what's left. They bring forth their torments that went down on them that day. Today, when they listen and watch this transmission and see Mr. Babic with what hatred and how he talks about people who are trying to contribute today through amendments, this bad law, which you are adopting today, changes and complements. Then they can only pray to God for something to change. Today, after three years of taking power from the SNS in this country, he's still talking about fog, still talking about lambs, accounts, insignificant things. You took over for three years, and you didn't do anything. The thorn in your eye that you have today is Bojan Pajtic, is a republican government, is a few local administration presidents from the DS, who have not only done their jobs honestly for years, but have received great recognitions, international recognitions. Vojvodina last year and in previous years was one of the best regions in terms of investment in Europe and you, at all costs, want to destroy it a little democracy and freedom in Serbia. Your goal is to bring some of your incompetent people, who will repeat on May 14th, when there was no reaction to the incident in Aryl and Ivanjica. You'll also bring incompetent people who don't know what it's about, who'll repeat mistakes that have been repeated for three years, and you'll try here at any cost...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29935	Thank you. Two minutes of your replica has passed. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29936	Thank God you have capable people. Thank God you have capable people who are, and this is official data from 2002 to 2009, the average damage suffered annually by the Republic of Serbia from the city and heavy rainfall is 7.3 billion dinars. Whose responsibility is that? Who was defending her then? Who was taking out the shoes then? Who hated her then, who? What about the Anti-Corruption Council? No transparent work by those experts from the Democratic Party when the damage is greater than 8.5m euros, as there was no record of purchased and spent rockets. What about those experts who purchased anti-building missiles from 2004 to 2010, and, instead of public tendering and law, paid 30,000 dinars instead of 20,000, what are they paying now? Are those the experts? God save me from such experts and me and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we're responsible for everything that's happened in the last three years and we're responsible for those trolls in Užica, who's been responsible for Cačak and the weather since July 6, 2008? Who? Maybe the Serbian Progressive Party. What about that damage that's measured to hundreds of millions of dinars? What about the damage to the Danube County of 200 million dinars, 16.10.2010? Is the Serbian Progressive Party responsible then? What about Valyev, 25.6th year? It's a shame 500 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29937	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29938	There's Chuck, there's further data. What are we going to do with that damage and those patrols, Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29939	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29940	Mr. Babić, if you were present Tuesday in the debate and this afternoon in the debate, you could probably conclude that I am talking all the time about determining responsibility, not only for this period that is behind us for this year, these few months, but also for the previous period and exactly the concept that I am saying is that the deadlines are being specified, to specify jurisdiction, never to the experiences that we have had, not to repeat the things that threaten people. We'll never stop the damage. We'll never be able to stop the lyrics and the disasters, but by doing our best, we have to do everything we can to keep it down, to prevent it, to protect people. You today, after all the disasters that happened last year, mention various figures from the previous period. This year, by June 19th, it was estimated that around 50m euros to 70m euros in damage caused by the city in Serbia in the cities I have listed. You may laugh at that, but the people who have suffered the damage don't laugh, the people who have suffered the damage expect this bill to be adopted six months before the law comes into force. You can't talk in June about the adoption of a law that will apply in six months and talk about taking care of people. You can't just talk about some times that have passed and blame others for what you can't do. We're talking about responsibility right now. It's said that the concept you're proposing isn't good, and it's proven to be that through the mistakes you've made this year, just because you haven't allocated money to the budget, you've endangered both property and people's lives. That's what we're talking about. Instead, you talk about optical cables, you talk about bar bills, you entertain people here out of responsibility, and you make some kind of fog that's been going on for three years. You took the responsibility of running this country three years ago, so start taking care of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29941	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29942	A colleague said -- we can't talk about a law that's going to apply in the next six months, so you know it's irresponsible. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: In six months. In six months. Mr. Markovic, you missed 15 years to pass a law like this. You haven't done anything in 15 years, and now you're six months old. It's a shame what you're saying. You had and you have in Vojvodina all the power, so instead of sharing there with your hand and hat with your party personnel, why don't you invest in anti-building protection? Why didn't you pass the law? There's a lot of you now. You know, it's terrible because we're passing the law in June. An estimate, whose estimate? Whose estimate? Your assessment. Are you expert in estimating? I'm not. I admit it, but that's why I'm contacting experts who are professional, and those cheerleading things of yours, so you know what, if I were to evaluate how much you've povertyed public finances, how much you've stolen and taken, I don't mean you personally, but your regime, so it's measured in generations, it's measured in billions, billions of euros. So don't just talk about judgment, not cheerleading. Of course, on Tuesday, after all, I spend more time in the congregation than in my own home, and I'll be doing it by the end of my term. That's why the citizens of Serbia chose me and sent me here. You'd better watch. Don't talk about cheerleading stuff. What estimate? Why didn't you bring these laws before that? Why didn't you stop all this in the past when you had the time? This is a reflection of the responsibility where we're going to track and order and radar and shooters and get missiles all in one place. Tomorrow to do something, the first thing I'm going to say is, uh, a friend of the directors of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, regardless of which party or not from the party, it doesn't matter, there's responsibility, there's the address. What's the matter so far? Is the MUP responsible or is RHMZ responsible? Is he responsible, just so you won't be responsible. Because of your irresponsibility, this irresponsible relationship with this problem has been happening to us. Now you've been trying to transfer all that over the past three years. It's irresponsible to forget everything. We can't forget everything. I don't want to forget everything. Call it whatever you want, but this is a concept where we have one place for both decision and action, but also for responsibility. It's a Republic hydrometeorological institution by adopting this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29943	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29944	Mr. Babic, if you were present in the O.R. or if you had read the law a little better, you'd see how big a problem there is in the budget that comes with the application of this law. In the light of the law, it is said that no funds are needed on both the Committee and the other meetings we have just discussed. Professional services, once again undermining both you and the minister, have indicated that the application of this law requires 940m dinars, about 8m euros. Well, professional services just pointed out that on the boards, and I'm telling you that this year alone at the Ministry of the Interior, you've separated 287 million dinars. That after the great disaster that happened in Aryl and Ivanjica on May 14, you separated 80 more, that it was an irresponsible approach, that it was a total of 360 million dinars and that there are 500 million missing, don't talk about some planes, trucks, some populist things you've been hiding behind for three years. I ask you for responsibility and let us point out that this concept that you have proposed, a law that is not good, must change and improve. We've done everything we can through the amendments to give solutions that will help to improve this, even though we think it's bad. You, in response to all of that, in response to irresponsibility, to riding, to the failures that were, you refer to some things that are completely unrelated to this. The Vojvodina region is one of the best regions in Europe and it's an example of co-operation, it's an example of respect for human rights, it's an example of respect for investment that happens in Vojvodina and all that you do, to lower it in some way, is your pulsism behind which there are hundreds of incompetent people who can't do jobs that are responsible. You're trying to actually protect them, as you protected all those who didn't do their job on May 14th in Aryl and Ivanjica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29945	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29946	Probably a fellow in the heat talking about those awards that Bojan Pajtic turned out to have paid them. Are we talking about these prizes that cost a few thousand euros? Mr. Coli, my dear Markovic, I will ask colleagues and colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, we will make an effort, we will invest some funds, we will allocate some funds from the salary, and we will grant you a reward, the same. That's the same reward. We will share the same reward, as Mr Pajtic received, the same as, since you are careful, the reward bought can be bought by anyone, and Mr Pajtic buys his prize. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina know best how this from the engine of one country's development, from the most beautiful and richest end of a country to the beginning. Unresponsibility, crime, kidnapping, just like this concept of giving party personnel from the AP Vojvodina budget, giving party personnel, destroying Vojvodina Development Bank, stealing according to the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. That's the only way that this award can be given by the DA for organized crime. No one else in their right mind could give a reward except for an organized crime prosecutor. It's true, these are the conflicts of two concepts. Your concept that you showed on Tuesday when I was here, and you're probably in a small hall, as soon as you haven't seen me, or somewhere walking around Belgrade, is the concept of new agencies, new commitments, new policies so you don't know whose responsibility it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29947	Time, Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29948	Our concept of smaller spending is to know who is doing and under whose responsibility it is and what responsibility it is to protect the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29949	I'll give you my word after he's called you, but to end up with this replica that I don't think has any purpose at all. Here you go, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29950	Thank you. Dear Mr. Babic, your claim that Mr. Pajtic paid his rewards is so pointless and so offensive that it should not be spoken of. As for your raising money to pay me for some rewards, that's even more pointless. I never had my own political, or any other engagement that I had in the past 15 years that was tied to work, I never charged for general interest, I didn't expect rewards. If you get a little better informed about what I've done in the past, you'll see that I have left behind the works that people respect. Five kindergartens, the most modern dump in the Balkans, hundreds of kilometers of streets, customs, free zone, stadiums, swimming pools, many jobs that have waited for years to end up in Užica and I don't need anyone's recognition, and especially not such a hypocritical offer that you like to raise money from these honest people to pay me something. It's so offensive that you don't have to comment on it. Before you suggest something like that. You'd better know who you're proposing to. Secondly, today we are talking about a law regarding the lives and assets of people, and don't ever again this Assembly and these people who came as our guests and citizens of Serbia to bring into such an unpleasant situation to talk about the completely irrelevant matters of this law. I say again, we have tried the amendments, with discussions to do everything to improve this law, and I think that in that sense we should look at all of our discussions. That you're trying to get over the insult...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29951	Time, Markovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29952	This was now the most disgusting indictment of the media in Serbia. The paid rewards of Mr Pajtic were written by the media in Serbia, free and independent, and I respect them and then when they write some things that I sometimes don't like, but I leave them to myself. But what the media in Serbia wrote in research journalism, as Mr. Pajtic conveyed to his staff, to party personnel, giving funds from the Vojvodina budget, it also said he was paying his rewards. This is the worst example of an attack on independent journalism, what journalists do, what they say is nonsense for Mr. Markovic and the DS. That's terrible what we just heard. As far as the deed is concerned, I'm not an expert in esteeming your work, they'll talk about it and talk about it by the citizens of Užica. I am sure that my esteemed colleague Ivana Stoiljkovic, who comes from the beautiful town of Užica, will talk about what works here, what doesn't work, how much has been paid, and how much of the funds have gone where they shouldn't go, and the citizens of Užica have shown it best by the elections, the choices in which they said no to your policy. They're free of that EPP that we saw just now and they're free of it drilling into heroic breasts, and we can now praise each other to speak only accordingly where people judge our work are choices. And I haven't crossed the line of disrespect for the conversation, but it closes your eyes to your own personal responsibility, and pointing your finger at those who responsibly pass such a law is at least rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29953	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. He's already losing every sense of further debate through replicas. The word is made by the MP Ivana Stoiljkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29954	I thank the chairman. I've come to the phone a long time ago, and this debate has begun between our two MPs, my fellow Members, but I think we should calm down our passions, get back to the amendment. I'm going to talk about Užica today, because Užice, Ivanica and Arilea, which are located near Užica, are mentioned several times today as a major disaster that happened a month ago. I would mention that I'm sorry that we don't have any farmers here right now and we don't have any experts from this area to talk to us, from RHMZ to speak to us personally and to say, if they asked when the disasters occurred, to say that it was 2010 and 2011. I also noted in the principle debate that only three years from 2007 to 2013, 45m euros came from the city alone on agricultural products that were supposed to succeed in these fields. Of course, we will not pay attention to the facilities and the machinery that has also suffered great damage because we based on agriculture, but what I want to say and ask, was someone responsible in 2010, 2011 for this disaster that happened and for the disaster why four million euros were given for various research and not for anti-urban missiles. Also, as far as Užica is concerned, I'd like to ask if anyone answered why the Jetin River spilled in the centre of Užica in 2009. No one was responsible for that, and she didn't bring in 30m euros. I'm talking about natural disasters that are hard to contain, but if we're going to talk about responsibility, let's really go for retrospectives. I also want to commend why this law was to be passed. We haven't heard the solutions except for opening the agency and we're against it, because the agency will only bring together one number of people who should do that job within their institutions and they will do it anyway if they are responsible no matter where they are. So the solution with the agency is not a good solution and we don't want to stand behind it, but what we certainly want is to stand behind this law because it will first and foremost solve the way the funding which represented the problem and will solve the problem of jurisdiction or responsibility. What's Republic jurisdiction? What is the jurisdiction of local self-government and all other authorities in this process? Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. President: I do not ask Mr Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Let me explain. ) The discussion that is now being conducted is out of the agenda. I'm not going to let you out of space because now he's losing every sense. The amendment is about how much compensation there will be for the shooters, and now we've gone to how much they receive, where what happens. Let's move on. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29955	The President-in-Office, Article 16 defines the way in which the funding and funding of the competent authority is financed, and I really expected that the minister and his associates, although I have always pointed out that it is necessary for the Minister of Agriculture to sit here to accept certain amendments that we think are good. I was hoping that the minister and his associates would accept this amendment where we proposed in the last position that the relationship with the shooters, from setting the number of shooters through negotiating with the shooters, would be defined by the 15th of February of the current year, because the experience we had in the course of this year indicates that precisely because the government had not defined those jobs, because there was no position in the budget until 14 May 2015, there was a disaster in Aryl, Ivanjica, Kragujevac and elsewhere. So, in accordance with those deadlines that we talked about in Articles 6 and 7 and in some other members, we suggested that these jobs be done in time, that the number of shooters is accurate, that their wages, their earnings are known, etc. What is opening up here as a topic again is – is the Ministry of the Interior today proposing this solution just trying to conceal its responsibility and transfer its responsibility to others? I want to point out once again that the question of funding this system is a serious issue. The board dealt with this issue. We have come to the conclusion that we do not have the eight million euros needed for these costs. The fact is that this year we only have 360 million and speaks in favour of this approach being unserious, that there will be further problems and that some costs will not be paid this year. That's why I once again warn that these things are analyzed and that you accept amendments and that we try to change the bill, which I say is bad again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29956	Thank you, Markovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 16a be added after Article 16. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29957	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, we are already a little tired since the debate is nearing its end. I'd just like to thank the government for accepting this amendment. This amendment is crucial in that part to clearly determine who is responsible for the implementation of the law. Within a year, when we discuss reports that the law has been functioning, whether it has funds, whether it has rockets, the Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible, and that is crucial, and that is what Serbian citizens need to know – who is responsible for implementation, for overseeing this law. It will be implemented by the RHMZ, but also in this Parliament through the Committee on Agriculture, and later and through the report of the Ministry of Agriculture itself, we will have a clear picture of how this law is being implemented and whether we have succeeded in implementing this law in the right way to respond to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29958	Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29959	Dear Minister, in article 19 on surveillance, you have predicted that the competent authority is also responsible for supervision, which is totally unacceptable. We find it unnatural for the authority to control itself and therefore we have proposed an amendment to be the Ministry of Agriculture. What I want to point out in my discussion is the fact that this particular member and this approach show how much you were either unserious about planning and proposing this law, how fast you were doing it, and how this law didn't actually go through a public debate, even though we talked about it. I believe that the public hearing was carried out for that previous law that was withdrawn from the procedure, which you said was bad, and this law did not have that procedure at all. The issue of surveillance is very important for many reasons. It's not just about control. It is not just a matter of determining responsibility, although it is an important issue. In previous discussions between me and my colleagues, Babic, we have had the opportunity to see how incorrect it is that my colleague Stojljkovic, whom I respect, includes in this discussion and is trying to make, as I say, replace the thesis. The information we just heard about the great flood that was in Užica in 2009 where the colleague was not well informed, which is what counterpart Babic is looking forward to talking about....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29960	Mr. Markovic, don't abuse...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29961	... If counterpart Babić and co-worker Stojiljkovic were better informed, they would see that the responsibility has been established and this is very fundamental and very professional in the judicial authorities and is responsible for the authority that today should be the competent authority for this issue that we are discussing. So, don't give a flat-rate assessment. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Who is responsible? Mr. Granny, I just said who's responsible, if you're listening to me. Don't use your own approach...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29962	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29963	... They interrupt me all the time. They're giving it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29964	Mr. Markovic, you misused the right to discuss the amendment and at first you spoke about it, and then you tried to replicate the MPs. Please don't abuse it. I'm supposed to be running the session. When it comes to the agenda, if we were to stick to it strictly, this amendment that you are discussing is currently a item of the agenda and it is only to be talked about and I ask you to stick to it. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29965	I have to say for the public's sake, even though we've discussed it several times today, I'll be as persistent as it takes, the public debate on this law is fundamentally done. She was attended by all interested parties. It lasted as long as everyone got to know each other and about that law we passed before. The amendments are only in normatives, i.e. provisions relating to imposing obligations on local self-governments. I'm sorry that some parties obviously want to impose certain financial obligations on local self-government knowing even that they can't do it, but that's what people will know that prices in local self-government and people who are thinking about the future of their local self-government. I'm sure of it. On the other hand, it is completely irresponsible to say that there was no public debate and therefore, of course, we accepted Mr Jovanovic's amendment, which is more legally precise because it defines it as the ministry responsible for agricultural affairs because the name of the ministry can also be changed by a new law on ministries. However, what Mr. Chairman obviously we haven't heard is – who is responsible for pouring out the river Đetinje in 2009 and damages of 33m euros? I really haven't heard who's guilty by name and last name or by institution, and which body has found that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29966	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29967	I join the appeal and the question of Minister Stefanovic because we haven't heard from my colleague Markovic, who is informed, I accept that I am not informed, but I am very happy to listen and hear who is responsible, has anyone answered and has Mr Markovic been informed and knows who has been answering for someone's shift, has he rebelled, has he said – you who are responsible for the spilling, for such damage you can't do that job anymore, you have to tell the judicial authorities what you did and that you are responsible for what someone did or didn't do? I would ask Mr Markovic to inform both colleague Ivan Stojiljković and Mr Stefanovic and myself and the public who is responsible for such damage, for the spilling of Đetinje, did he seek responsibility and did anyone answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29968	Replica, Markovic, even though you dared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29969	Dear Mr Babić, you and the minister probably didn't understand Stojiljkovic well. It's not about the millions of euros you're talking about, it's about a few million dinars. When the disaster occurred in November 2009, and when the disaster occurred, and this was an assessment by the Republic Institute of Thousands of Years of Waters, the town of Užice reacted terribly well and terribly quickly. I am the one who raised the question of the responsibility of my associates, the director of certain institutions and businesses in the city. They have been in the court proceedings for several years because of this initiative, proving their responsibility and found that people are innocent. I didn't answer, if you remember correctly, not once when there was a debate about the Obrenovac. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Who is responsible? Nobody. I've never commented on a single natural disaster that happened during this government's time. Mr. Maric, who sits next to the minister, knows how we cooperated and knows well what we've been through, and some people sitting here today in the hall. I never allowed myself to comment lightly on other people's suffering and misfortune because I know what it's like to stand in front of people and give answers to questions about their property, their lives, etc. The reactions we had for this water and for the fires and for the explosion in "Partizan" were professional, in time and human and should be for example. What I said in the previous period, about your attitude about it, is just about the events I took part in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29970	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29971	Just one sentence. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Who is responsible? ) As far as responsibility is concerned, Mr. Babic, responsibility has been established in the judicial authorities. If you're interested in who's responsible, you'll easily get information, you're a very powerful man in this country, you'll get the right answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29972	Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29973	He's contradictory. He said earlier that he didn't even care about other people's suffering and all that stuff, and he's here all day talking about the responsibility of someone else when the town hit the area of Uzic. When he's in power, then no one should be interested, no one should ask for responsibility, and when he's not in power, then he knows everything about who he is and how he's responsible, but it's been two minutes. I will call again my colleague Markovic and give him the opportunity to ask him for two more minutes – please state the name and last name, the people and institutions responsible for spilling Đetinje, for the damage you say – however irrelevant, several million. Every penny is important to us. Tell the name and last name who's responsible, whether you asked these people and those institutions to have consequences or if it's just been over, it's forgotten and we're moving on. This is the response of irresponsible people and irresponsible attitude towards citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29974	Since the city of Uzice is not subject to this law, we are moving on to amendments. (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: Let's just hear who's responsible. There's time, she'll tell after. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Well, he won't. ) Members of Parliament Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Head IX, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29975	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an amendment relating to the obvious technical correction of the text of the law. Otherwise it refers to Article 20 point 2 of subpoint 3, where we're actually replacing number four with point three. In the very conversation with representatives sitting next to the minister, we reported this mistake, or by careful reading, we came to the fact that an obvious technical error was made, and we also received a promise in principle that our amendment would be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29976	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski submitted the 20th amendment together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 20a be added after article 20a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29977	Ladies and gentlemen, I see a pleasure on behalf of the MPs of the SNS when I get the word, and I can tell both the Minister and the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly that I too feel a great pleasure when I know that the MPs of the SNS, when they vote for this bill in the day of voting, will vote for the five amendments that I have signed. It's a great pleasure, gentlemen. I am not pleased that an amendment to Article 21 of this bill, submitted by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and myself, has not been accepted. I don't think there's a MP here, and there's not a minister in the government who doesn't know that the New Party is constantly fighting for a stricter criminal policy. Article 21 is about that. This is where we suggested a stricter criminal policy. Minister Stefanovic says -- he can't have a stricter criminal policy, but with a weak argument, I think, Minister Stefanovic. You wrote us this way – it should not be a stricter criminal policy, because it is not the primary height of punishment, but is the primary certainty that every offender will be punished for the offence he has committed. How can these two things in such a 100 per cent awareness stand with you, Mr. Minister? For example, we think that every offender will be punished for the offence he committed or that the chance to be punished will be greater if there is a stricter criminal policy, and you have not answered our argument, Minister Stefanovic. I ask you to reconsider this amendment, to accept this amendment, or tonight from 19.30 to 21.00 a.m. in front of the old court building in Gornji Milanovac, I will have to explain and the things concerning this amendment and the bill in full, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29978	The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinović submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29979	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, Article 21 speaks to the greatest extent about criminal provisions. Through these proposals and amendments, we wanted to step up these proposals, which is to increase the penalties foreseen here. That's one dimension of this amendment. The second and most important thing was that in the last position, where it was said that the actions referred to in Articles 1, 2 and 3 of this article, in addition to fines, could be imposed, respected ministers, the removal of obstacles to emission devices, construction facilities, other buildings or devices, etc. We felt that this formulation should be changed and that instead of the word "can" it is "needs to be removed", because we believe that many of the problems that appear in practice in access to the shooter cells, in their functioning, etc., are linked to some objects, obstacles, etc., which are imposed as problems. We thought it was good for those who maintain systems, but also for local administrations that care for access. What I think is the biggest problem, here in this article we have tried to propose to predict and criminal policy for all those people who are in the chain of governance and in the chain of responsibility for inaction, that by defining deadlines and by defining obligations to those who are employed in the system, responsibility is determined. We're now in a situation, if any failure happens to, say, that station, if there's a failure because there's no relationship with the shooters, if there's any failure, there are no criminal measures and provisions to those persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29980	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29981	I've been listening to what you've been saying and this sounds logical. The only thing I can do right now is suggest that the parliamentary majority vote in favour of your amendment. So it's possible to classify this as an integral part of the law through a legal-technical editorial, and I think it's perfectly normal. So I'm fully in favour of the strictest possible criminal policy. So here it has been defined similar to what Mr Pavicevic spoke of earlier. It's quite similar, but only one thing, it says -- it can be loaded, and it says here -- it requires removing obstacles. So the sharper it is defined in this amendment. So, there is Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Babic is not here, and as far as this amendment is concerned by Article 21, for the government he is essentially acceptable, so you can consider voting on him. So I can't order MPs, but this can be taken as something that's acceptable to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29982	Thank you. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29983	In Article 21, we believe that at the end of the text in paragraph 4, the words "after the entry into force of this law" should be added. If the proposed provision set out in the proposal were to take effect in fact the retroactiveness of its application and the individual entrepreneurs, who, according to the regulations that were in force before this law, carried out the actions to be carried out by this provision incriminating them, would be struck by the penalty. Because such a defined Article 16 provides for the possibility of fines for entrepreneurs if they do not remove obstacles or construction facilities set up on the radar centre's protective zone or launch station. However, what is the situation if it was done before this law was passed, completely legally according to then certain sublaws and regulations that were in force at that time? Is the law then applied retroactively, and will businesses be punished for respecting the legal provisions before this law is passed? We just feel that this is how to add the text, after the entry into force of this law, protects businessmen from the diversity of interpretation and retroactive application of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29984	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29985	I think it's important that I just say one argument to the minister, I think it'll be important for...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29986	No, you don't have time. You're not an applicant for the amendment, and you can't get a word out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29987	Please, it's very...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29988	You can't get the word. Mr. Markovic, I'm not here to make exceptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29989	Please, it's very well-intentioned and it's very important for a decision...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29990	Mr. Markovic, you can be 100% and 1,000% right, but you have no basis for which I can give you my word. Do you understand me? You have to understand the situation I'm in. If I break it, I violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Marijan Risticevic, Miodrag Nikolic, Milija Miletic and Zarko Bogatinovic together submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29991	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we supported the proposal by Nikolic Miodrag Feman, and we have submitted an amendment that aims to strengthen the penalties for all those responsible in the anti-urban protection system, and therefore in all those where agriculture production and agriculture are protected in the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to read all these suggestions, but the essence of this amendment is that whoever's doing what he's doing, what he's doing, what he's doing, or what he doesn't do is answering the same thing. There are hundreds of thousands to millions fines for anyone in the system who hasn't finished their part of the work he was supposed to do. As far as local self-government is concerned, Article 6, it is stated that in the system of local self-government whoever is responsible, whether he is chosen, appointed, or a person who is in a working relationship, is punished, resolved or broken off. We've heard so far how much damage we've suffered from all these disasters, whether it's water, whether it's the city, whether it's something else. All this was happening, and the biggest damage was suffered by farmers, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves. In response to this amendment, I have worked on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs to convince fellow Members to vote in favour of this amendment, because I want whoever is wrong about it to be responsible and to be resolved if elected, appointed or appointed. It was enough for someone to do damage without anyone answering anything. That's why we've been looking for, or I'm a member of the People's Parliament in front of the United Peasants' Party, and I want whoever did the damage to it to fit and to be financially punished, and to be either resolved or to lose his job if he didn't do it right. Here in a response to the Constitutional Affairs Committee, they said our amendment was not in line with the Constitution. I want this amendment to be adopted, that all fellow MPs vote in favour of this amendment and, at the very least, to enter into the change of the Constitution, because it is necessary for agriculture and the village to provide a much better place and for the Constitution to be defined to equalise the lives of all our people living in the country, live from the village and be the same conditions both in the village and in the city. I call upon all fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this amendment and that he who does bad for it and answers and is resolved if he is chosen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29992	The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Arsenovic, a respected guest and guest from the ministry, today's debate is evidence that it is worth explaining every amendment, because we now have a situation that Minister Stefanovic has adopted and an amendment that he did not plan to adopt, and I have concluded it on the basis of this list that has come. I believe that Mr Babic now has objections to the adoption of another amendment, because the adoption of every amendment, respected gentlemen, as we all know here, means the growth of opposition political parties, above all the New Party, which endures the largest number of amendments and whose amendments are adopted, is now almost 6.5%, gentlemen respected. I must tell Mr Stefanovic to also consider adopting, or accepting this amendment, because it concerns an important principle and policy, gentlemen. That's the principle, Mr. Arsenovic, of efficiency. We have proposed to shorten the period for the adoption of sublegal regulations from six months to three months. Minister Stefanovic says it is wrong to reduce the period and offer an explanation. Minister Stefanovic says -- accepting such an amendment opens up the possibility of breaking the prescribed deadlines, which has already happened in practice. But this is how I think, gentlemen - well, we must not, because of the poor experience in terms of breaking deadlines to give up the principle of efficiency forever, but I guess that principle should be promoted continuously in our work, respected gentlemen and Mr Stefanovic, and that there is no problem here that we agree that in three months these sublaws must be adopted. If they don't adopt, then we need to see why they weren't adopted, so that on the basis of the principle of ethics, there's someone responsible for not accepting. Then we promote in the right way, esteemed gentlemen, efficiency in politics, which I think is particularly important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29994	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 22a be added after article 22. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Corovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We now move to the 2nd point of the agenda – Proposal for a law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojšić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković and Zoran Babić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29995	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I comment on this amendment, I would like to express my congratulations to you personally, as Minister, and to your Emergency Sector on the award received yesterday by the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce, which is very important and I hope that it will give additional encouragement to the Emergency Sector itself and the entire ministry to work even better and better. Namely, Serbia's SDP thanks to the adoption of four amendments I personally submitted, and it is very important for us to contribute to making this law more quality and better implemented and to bringing it into line with other very important laws. I would primarily point out that it is very important to comply with the Law on Planning and Construction which, as we all know, is one of the key laws that implies attracting investment, and therefore it is very important that you recognize what you have sensitivity, simply, in addition to your laws in the security sector and are focused on this aspect and this area, that this also ensures that the other laws that these laws are linked to are made as good as possible and as high-quality business environment. On the other hand, this amendment will contribute to the agreement of the MUP on technical documentation for construction, reconstruction and construction and consideration of the application of fire and explosion safety measures. In any case, this is another reform law proposed by the MUP, and we look forward to this new law being prepared, the law on police, which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the party I belong to, will just be one crown of modernization of this ministry and something that no minister has ever done. Given the reform itself and the introduction of new sectors into the ministry, career management, career progress, which will, in any case, make the MUP a truly modern and modern institution and an organisation that will be competitive and that will be able to measure with the same ministries and institutions in the region, but also in the whole world. I believe that, since you have accepted more amendments from opposition parties to previous laws, even these fiercest opposition can only be ordered to believe. I hope they're beginning to believe that only the Ministry of the Interior is doing very modern and good things. This applies especially to the New Party. It is important faith, and I think that together with one quality and good dialogue, we will come up with as best legislative regulations as possible, so that we can develop only the Ministry and, of course, to get better security and also better business and investment environments. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29996	On what basis, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: We are mentioned. Don't, please. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsenovic, the respected ministers and respected guests and honored guests, I have encountered an interesting thing about our debate on amendments here because our amendment to Article 3 has not been accepted because the amendment to this article, submitted by MP Zoran Babic, has been accepted. I then wanted to ask Minister Stefanovic – is it true that Minister Stefanovic, thinking that the number of amendments submitted by the People's MPs of the New Party should not be too large, has now come up with a cunning way of rejecting our amendments by MP Zoran Babic, for example, preparing an amendment that will be similar to the content, and then the amendment will be accepted to reduce the number of accepted amendments of the opposition? Or, Mr. Stefanovic, this is not a lonely example. And the next amendment that Mr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted here, and you didn't give me the right to reply, Mr. Arsenovic, and I had the right not to reply because Mr. Marinkovic mentioned me, he had some advice for me, so I would have two tips for him when I was given the right to reply. And the adopted amendment by Mr Marinkovic, and as could be heard from Marinkovic's presentation, he is a great advocate of what the Serbian government is doing, I am not, and then Mr Stefanovic decided, instead of accepting our amendment, to accept Mr Marinkovic's amendment. I only ask for the reply of Minister Stefanovic – did he come up with one clever way to reduce the number of amendments accepted by the People's MPs of the New Party? If he did, to say he did, and why he did exactly resort to that method, and if he didn't, to say he didn't, I'll believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29998	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u29999	Not only by day, I come up with methods at night only to come up with a reduction in the number of accepted amendments that I accept. So I figure out how I'm gonna find a way to accept what I'm not going to accept. That would be a very interesting way. Now really, out of joke, I have to say, and I have to do it for the public. Mr Babic's amendment has three pages that I have accepted and very detailedly regulates things. Your amendment only affects and resembles one word, i.e. it is identical with Mr Babic's amendment. I've had to accept an amendment that's more comprehensive, more overall and, say, more comprehensive and quality to regulate this. As you can see, I wanted to say, now might be a good opportunity, I was talking to my colleagues, and when we appreciated, therefore, we didn't appreciate who wrote the amendment, but we accepted these amendments that were more quality, which you saw that I also accepted the amendment of my previous fellow speaker. I really think this is of common interest to make this law better, and that is why I am grateful to all the MPs who have made an effort to write amendments and to really try to make this a better law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30000	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30001	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I welcome the minister's view that we should certainly meet only the right quality and in that sense accept those solutions that are better with quality, and I would like to tell the promoter that instead of looking for cunning and conspiracy, we kill what, look at obvious things. This amendment should not be accepted because only the declared language protectors have made spelling mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30002	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mr Arsenovic, dear ministers, honored guests and guests who are patiently participating in today's debate, and this is for one congratulatory I think here, this is the last time that I appear today for the interpretation of an amendment submitted by us by the People's MPs of the New Party. I just want to point out to the MPs what this amendment is about, so that one question that we consider very important here will be given in special weight. In the amendment to Article 21, we suggest adding "stuck" to one place where you were "stuck" by respected gentlemen. I must say now here and Minister Stefanovic and the guests and guests and the folk MPs of the SNS, I see that everyone is waiting to hear what is to be said, that it is my great pleasure that today will be a day of voting, the MPs of Mr Babic, Mr Drecun, Mr Markovic, Mrs Rakic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30004	Please, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30005	I see that Mrs Milosevic has gone to Ivanjic and is certainly preparing to prevent citizens from coming there on Sunday for that meeting we scheduled at 20.00 hours. Mr Arsenović, just to tell you, it is a great pleasure for all these MPs to vote for our entrenched law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30006	Please, you're talking empty. You're talking empty, Mr. Pavicevic. I know it's the amendment, but I just want to let you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, you're not allowed to address other MPs and to call them, and you've called Babic and I don't know yet here. So, please, and that's why I interrupted you, and now I'm going to give you my word because you have 30 seconds left to complete the argument that it's not exactly empty. Please, just sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30007	Ladies and gentlemen and Mr Arsenovic, it is necessary for me to tell you, of course according to the Rules of Procedure, that no direct address is allowed, but I can, with your intervention, mention a few MPs if I have an intervention in relation to something the MP said. And Mr. Arsenovicu, I am the intervention of Mr. Babic, Mr. Markovic, Mr. Drecun, Mrs. Rakic, Mrs. Milosevic and so on. I declare the pleasure of being appreciated here in the Assembly and in the Government and that effort regarding the respect of our language, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30008	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30009	Mr. Chairman, I just want to let you know that the Ministry is ready to hire additional police forces in case the number of people bought in Ivanjica is so large that the regular force of the police cannot come to an end and just so you know that we are ready to preserve public order and peace at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30010	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30011	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as the MP of the SNS, of course, that I am ready to vote in favour of the proposed laws and the amendments adopted by the amendment and any other amendments the Government has accepted and I will vote in the day to vote. But I would like the amendment's proposer to make a precedent once and for once to stay at the vote and that he vote himself for his amendments. So, for once, let him do it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30012	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senić and Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and detail. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF MINISTRATIVES You have received an amendment submitted by the MP Dr Janko Vesenović on the draft law. You have received the Report of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint on 19 June 2015, starting at 17 am, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-19-0.u30013	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. I'm putting the bill on the bill of defense against the city, in principle. The system doesn't work, I'll repeat the vote. I'm putting the bill on the bill of defense against the city, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – one abstention – there is no vote of 10 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 134 of the total of 141 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted 137 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted 137 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 135 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava III, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 136 of the total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 136 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 139 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 137 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 14a be added after Article 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 138 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 137 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 141 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 138 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 138 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic together submitted an amendment proposing that Article 16a be added after Article 16. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 138 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 138 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS, the Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 138 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 138 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 20a be added after article 20a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Marijan Risticevic, Miodrag Nikolic, Milija Miletic and Zarko Bogatinovic together submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 22nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 22a be added after article 22a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on the bill of defense against the city, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139 against – five abstentions – there are no votes, three of the total of 147 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill of defense against the city. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda – I am putting the proposal for a law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases to vote, in principle, on the proposal for a law on incendiary and fuel liquids and incendiary gases. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, no one, on the other hand, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on flammable and fuel liquids and flammable gases. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF MINISTRATIVES I place the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Ministries in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – one abstention – there is no vote, six of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – two abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military-technical co-operation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstention – has voted – four out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – five of the total attendance of 144 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – five of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – five of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. National MP Jovan Markovic at a session on 16 June 2015, pointed out at 14 o'clock and 15 minutes to the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – there is no one who has ever voted – 141 of the total attendance of the 141 People's Messenger. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 19 June 2015, pointed at 11 o'clock and two minutes to the violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 129 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexander Jerkov's National MP at a session on 19 June 2015, at 11 o'clock and six minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 127 of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 19 June 2015, pointed to a violation of article 106 at 12 hours and three minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 126 of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović said at a session on 19 June 2015, at 12 hours and 22 minutes, that he was injured by a member of 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 128 of the total of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
