ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 145 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40814	Thank you, Madam President. My question today is for the government of the Republic of Serbia. On 29 May 2015, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted Decision 05 No 350-854/2015 on the development of a spatial plan for the specific purpose of the Regional Training Centre for Multinational Operations Base-South. The indicative limit of the spatial plan, as stated in the decision, except for the parts of the area of Vranja, would cover the municipality of Bujanovac, the entire Catastrian municipality of Bogdanovac, Gornja Novo Selo, Donje Novo Selo, Djordjevac, Muhovac, Ravnivac, located within the zone of land security and the village of Negovac, Sebrat and parts of the Catastrian municipality of Bilac, Bozinjevac one, Bozinjevac two, Borovac, Bujanovac, Žuželica, Karadnik, Levosoje, Letovica, Lukace, Ljiljance, Nesalce, Nesalac, Ravljac, Savaljica and the Serbian House. The main objective of planning is, according to the decision, to exploit existing and previously unengaged spatial potentials for the achievement of the South Base mission, with respect to the principles of sustainable spatial development. The specific objectives include, among other things, the provision of spatial conditions for the construction, equipment and operation of the facility in the decision-making function, the integration of the facility and activities within the South Base in the environment, as well as the creation of conditions for strengthening regional co-operation and the position of the Republic of Serbia in terms of engagement in peace operations. My question for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and what interests citizens in the municipality of Bujanovac is whether this decision means further militarisation of the area? How will its realization affect the everyday life of the citizens of the Bujanovac municipality, their rights, freedom of movement, the use of their mobile and immovable property? Will these zones be subject to a special movement regime, or will citizens have to access their real estates with special permission and is the local self-government in Bujanovac familiar with this decision? My second question is also for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it concerns the latest report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress. On page 69. Progress reports, translated into Serbian, where the situation in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja were discussed, among other things, I quote – This region remains underdeveloped, and ethnic Albanian population remains under-represented in public services. So, my question for the government is – What does the government plan to do on these issues, which are also political demands of Albanian political representatives of the Presevo Valley? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40815	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40816	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, I will use the time of the parliamentary group to ask two questions, but at the same time to offer solutions to the problems I will discuss. The first issue concerns the Northtrans company Sombor, the Sombor Business Court, refused to accept a pre-prepared restructuring plan, under which the write-off of a part of the interest on debt to top creditors was agreed. This proposal is supported, which is very important, by 80% of creditors, where NIS, "Naftagas", NLB licking, Porsche licking and others, who have agreed to accept 60% of the claims and tighten interest and 40% of the claims are written off. With the debts of 740 million dinars, 250 million states under the Debt Conversion Act would turn into actions, i.e. ownership of capital and increased stakes from 53% to 80% so far. This was to happen at the first government meeting, and today, as far as I know, representatives of the "Northtrans" are at the finance ministry in talks with Mrs Gordan Stanojevic. The Judge of the Temporary Court in Sombor, Mr. Chokorilo, otherwise from the territory of the Municipality of Subotica, who obviously does not understand the problems in which the Somborcians and the Northtrans company are located, rejects the proposal with incomprehensible grudges and does not take into account the 30-day extension request, in order to ensure the government's conclusion on the conversion of debt into capital. Besides, he doesn't understand why trustees look for 60%, not everything with interest, which is just amazing. The very proposal on debt conversion and the whole proposal put forward by workers was the subject of an audit that gave a positive opinion in the Serbian government. Also, the indicative fact that in other municipalities the previous bankruptcy procedure is opened within three days in order to enable the company to work and to make possible corrections, and anything unfortunately in Sombor is not the case. Failure to accept this proposal means that all Northtrans employees will be declared a technological surplus, which will burden Serbia's budget, as the budget envisions funds for severances. The severance money should be paid by December 25th, after which a bankruptcy would be declared. The people of Northrans have already been through this since the robbery privatisation several years ago, especially in Vojvodina, and therefore their fear is justified. They're just looking for a chance to work. I'll remind you that the average in this company is about 40 years, and what they're afraid of is one of them making social cases, regardless of whether it's an economic court or someone else. So my question is what will the Ministry of Business and Finance do to protect more than 160 workers employed in Northtrans Sombor? My second question, as well, I'm asking the Ministry of Finance, is probably the biggest problem and the thorn in the eye of anyone who drives a motorcycle, the unreally high price of an annual motorcycle registration, which up to 500 cc's can somehow be paid, but that's why we can feel free to think of it as an exaggeration. For those who do not know, we will mention that for engines between 500 and 750 cubic metres the price of 170 euros and for engines of over 1100 cubic metres is the same registration as around 250 euros. So, up to 1,100 cc's. For those over 1100 cc's, volume and registration, believe it or not, it costs like some kind of luxury jeep. Of course, there is no happy fact that the engine in Serbia is never driven by climate conditions for a year, but much less, which makes the registration price even bigger and more bizarre. It is believed that the season does not last more than six months in continuity, and if the annual climate conditions of the permit, there can be added another month. Let's say, when the temperature drops below 10 degrees Celsius, the engine parks in the garage waiting for a new spring and warming. Too few motorcycles on Serbia's roads to supplement the state's register with this money. On the other hand, more than 30 years ago, the motorcycle stopped being a luxury, and from this aspect, a drastic reduction of taxis is necessary. It's clear to all of us that the solution to this problem is very simple, so I'm going to offer two solutions. The first solution is that the state reduces taxes in the annual registration of motorcycles by 50% and facilitates their registration in times of crisis. The state should also understand and understand that this gesture will not reduce funds that are being poured into the register on this basis, but will be a new incentive to import and register more engines than so far, especially if in Belgrade and other Serbian cities decide to introduce themselves in their territories so-called. Preferred cubicity of 125 cc. The second solution to this problem is that prices are left for the way they are, but to allow registration... (The President. Thank you. It's been a while. Please, just one more sentence. To register motorcycles for as many months as the engine owner wants to ride it in one calendar year. This is a little harder and it takes a little bigger problems, but I think one of these two solutions is more than acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40817	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40818	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask you a question about a solid tax. In fact, the Law on the reduction of net income in the public sector was in force from early 2014 to 31 October of the same year, and it concerned profits and incomes above 60,000, namely one share and more than 100,000 dinars. In accordance with the provisions of this law, it was applied during that period to payments defined as earnings or other remuneration of public sector employees, regardless of the month for which these payments were paid. When net income was reduced in one month, it was an official explanation of the tax administration, in fact it was irrelevant whether a one month payment was made multiple times in that month, once, or even once in the same month for several months. A particular problem I'd like to ask you about is maternity care. It is generally known that, unfortunately, the Institute of Social Insurance pays a maternity allowance very messyly and that during this period in 2014 many maternity leave families received a great delay, i.e. when they finally arrived, a large number of them received maternity benefits in one month for two, three, and some of them even for four months, and in the next month none, or waited for months to arrive at all. The problem that has arisen in practice is that when, after several months of waiting, the fees arrived in one month for a larger number of months, and even if, for example, the amount of the fee was around the minimumer, or about 20, 30,000, logically, when they were collected, that amount was more than 60,000, and thus the balance tax was calculated, completely unacceptable, because the parents and babies, first of all, the young parents were waiting for compensations, when their life loads increased, and then they were reduced. Certainly, the legislator's intention when it came to the so-called so-called. The solid tax wasn't to be applied to maternity care. The Citizens' Protector made a recommendation several months ago to the Ministry of Finance, which just explains that the Law on the reduction of the net income of the public sector should apply to individual payments and payments, rather than to the cumulative ones in this case. The bigger problem is that the unequal practice on the ground, in different municipalities and what we are coming up with today in 2015, and in the past few months, is that unless the families have been charged a solid tax or a cumulatively paid compensation, they are now being sued by the tax administration for having to pay a certain amount, since the tax administration has seen that the fees paid are greater than those that should be reduced for this law, so they get solutions that are, unfortunately, finally, to pay a certain amount in the budget. A few weeks ago, in mid-November, we received information that the Ministry of Finance, along with the tax administration, is solving this problem, that individual solutions will be considered, and that they will soon come out in public with a response from the family. So I ask the question when and what model will it be to help with specific cases of these births? What activities of the Ministry of Finance, along with the tax administration, is it taking to really solve this big problem? The SVM parliamentary group is waiting for a quick response, because we believe that neither maternity nor baby should be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40819	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40820	Thank you. Dear President, I'm going to ask you first to do something to make these questions that we're asking here not only empty words that go into the wind. Our Rules of Procedure obliges the authority to answer the question within 15 days. I've been asking six, seven questions in the last few months, and I only got one answer from the Home Secretary after a month. The prime minister, culture minister, finance minister and others I addressed have never answered me. I ask you to do something about this, so that all of this doesn't turn into a play where we're talking for a few minutes so that maybe the citizens will hear us, and the questions that we're asking remain unanswered by the authorities. I will question the Prime Minister today, first of all, as the most responsible for the functioning of the Government, and the question is very simple – when will the regulation under Article 2 54 be adopted. Public property law? The Public Property Act was passed almost four years ago. It provided for a period of six months for the adoption of a regulation to regulate the criteria and procedure for granting apartments in public ownership and their purchases, as well as criteria for the award of housing to employees in the bodies referred to in Article 1, and the bodies referred to in Article 1 are the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government. What is the essence of this question, what is behind this question, and why does this regulation complicate the life of a single number of citizens? A number of employees in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government live in apartments owned by the Republic of Serbia. They, because this regulation has not been passed, cannot buy these apartments they live in. They, for example, are employees who have stopped working and have retired, are losing their right to live in these apartments, and these people today live in fear of whether and when the government will bring the regulation, allowing them to buy these apartments if they want and have the funds, which is unlikely, given the economic policy and the results of this government's economic policy, but are primarily concerned about whether they can lose the right to live in those apartments, because this regulation should regulate what happens to those who retire, and in status are renting a certain apartment. The deadline for the adoption of this Regulation was the first half of 2012. So he's three and a half years late. I will remind you that someone calculated that Serbia's sublegal acts are on average delayed, i.e. the average deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts is 790 and a few days, meaning two years. We have repeatedly in the debate here, according to many laws, pointed out the need for sublegal documents to be passed much faster, that they must be ready when the law is passed, that sublegal documents be adopted, because a large number of things, unfortunately, in the laws that this government proposes, bring in the ruling majority, contain in themselves a lot of empty space that should then be regulated by regulations and other sublegal documents, and then these documents are not passed in time and the laws remain dead letter on paper, cannot be implemented and have no effect. All this is due to the full absence of any reform in the Republic of Serbia, here is the fourth year and I am asking the prime minister – when will the Government bring the regulation referred to in Article 2 or Article 54(2). Public property law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40821	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40822	Thank you, Madam President. The question, I suppose, should be referred to the mayor of Novi Sad, Milos Vučević, but I have not been able to have the capacity to answer it, so instead I will refer the question to Minister Sertic, with a recommendation that he consults the City of Novi Sad when he answers it. My question is how many total citizens of Novi Sad will cost an investment announced in this hall by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, about the arrival of some mysterious company in Novi Sad, which would be the largest, and the villains would say the only investment in Novi Sad in the past four years since the SNS, as third placed in local elections, came to power in Novi Sad. In fact, what can be seen from the documentation published by the Public Enterprise of the City Building Institute, it is that Novi Sad, for the sake of the company's arrival, has the intention of the investor to settle the land that, when Novi Sad received it from the Republic Property Directorate, was estimated at 12.5m euros. In addition, the City of Novi Sad, also in the official documentation, intends to invest a billion dinars in the land's equipment and three billion dinars to build a hall in which the investor will mysteriously do some work. This means that Novi Sad will invest more than 40m euros in this job according to what we know about it now. Some say it will be the US company Lir, which has launched a competition on its job-finding sites for certain jobs in Novi Sad. What is an accident, Mrs. Gojkovic, which is the only condition for that job that workers can stand for eight hours. If the sum is divided, huge, which Novi Sad gives to open the factory, to the number of workers who have been announced to be employed, which is 1,500, it is very easy to find that Novi Sad will pay the investor around 30,000 euros or 3,600,000 dinars. Given that the only condition for those people who will be employed in that factory that they can stand for eight hours, I suppose their salaries will not be very high, or that they will be minimal, which means that the City of Novi Sad will allow this investor to work for free in Novi Sad over the next 12 years. I ask Minister Sertic to explain to us how this is an investment in Novi Sad, not this investor? I know that our mayor, and you know Mrs. Gojkovic, puts into the investments two bike vaults, a scoreboard and one stoplight site that hasn't been opened yet, one gas tank, two trees and a gynaecological table that opened yesterday, and I understand in that sense the need for SNS to create some sort of vision of investment in Novi Sad. What I would ask Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS is that Milosa Vukevic's investments in Novi Sad are paid by their money, not by the citizens of Novi Sad, rather than by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not the only case that we have false investment, which is why the Republic of Serbia is in debt. In Obrenovac, as far as we can hear, there is also some kind of fake investment that the Republic will invest 40m euros, or 20m Republic, 20m City, the investor 20m euros, and this investor will create 250 jobs. It's not true there's savings. It only saves on citizens, and for your friends, there's always money for investors that aren't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40823	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40824	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm gonna wait a little while so we can talk. I think parliamentary matters are extremely important. I have a question for the MUP – what knowledge has come to the public and to present to the public what kind of crime is the regime, I underline, Mr. Pajtic's criminal regime in Vojvodina, as long as it has come with the investigation that Mr. Pajtic and Mr. Bozovic have kidnapped 1 million and a half euros of children who have been distracted in the development? It's a disgrace to Serbia. Since Mr Pajtic and Mr Bozovic have sued me for this statement, I call once again on the criminal affairs to stop in Vojvodina and never again allow Pajtic, Bozovic and others to rob and take from those who need the money most. You took a million and a half euros from children who were distracted by development. How about you take a million and a half euros, on the one hand, and then sue Jovicic, Babic, Martinovic or any MPs, and replace it and put money in your pocket first? If you think we're afraid of you suing us, we're not afraid. We're not afraid of any physical attacks that may come from your side, let alone a lawsuit. No, you're trying to cover up your affairs, the robbery you've done in Serbia, along with a man who recognized himself and raised his hands in front of you. You've robbed Serbia, robbed Vojvodina, and then you pose as honest men and sue the honest MPs in this room. We are not afraid to tell Serbian citizens that you are taking money from children who are distracted by development. For God's sake, I want the citizens of Serbia to hear it, so what are you doing, then taking from employees, pensioners and all of those since 2008, when you've been in charge and taking loans of six billion euros to win the election. I repeat that Mr. Pajtic and Mr. Bozovic are the leaders of the criminal regime in Vojvodina, and they are represented as opposition, but I want to tell the citizens that we have not seen a worse and more criminal regime in Serbia in the last 30 years. You should be ashamed to take the money. If you're going to scare me with a lawsuit, feel free to sue as much as you want. I have nothing to hide. I didn't take anything from anyone but you. You're talking about asphalting in the New Sad. You've given the deed to one man to asphalt since 2007, and that's Dusan Borovica. He was the only one with the exclusive right and the best asphalt in your tender documentation. How can you not be ashamed? Vojvodina Development Bank, Capital Fund, you've robbed everything. We can't stay immune to that, and that's why I'm calling on the MUP to respond, to stop the robbery in Vojvodina. What you're doing is immoral, unfair, and that's why you'll be cleared politically from Serbia's political scene, citizens recognize it. You want to keep us quiet, so gentlemen won't be able to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40825	Ambassador, please speak to me. Do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40826	I'm telling you the chairman that on the other hand they want to keep us quiet, and we're shaking with fear. We are not afraid of anyone because we do our job honestly and responsibly and support the honest and responsible man who runs this government, Alexander Vukic, who is fighting those who know and only know it, to hold hands, not only in the pockets of all the citizens of our country, but also children who are distracted in development. You should be ashamed and honored.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40827	Thank you. I was informed that today he was prevented from attending this session by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We're going to vote on the records. We're moving on to a decision. I'm putting it to a vote... (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40828	Your Honor, I'd like to point to an injury on your part, Article 172. Rules of Procedure. In order to make it clear to all, I will read this article – a review of the draft budget at the meeting of the National Assembly can begin at the earliest 15 days from the day of the adoption of the draft budget in the National Assembly. The draft budget arrived in the Assembly on 4 December in electronic form, in printed form only about 6. It's December 8th, so it's been less than five days. Four days from the adoption of the draft budget to the National Assembly. You have scheduled the session for today and are now opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Session, on which the draft agenda is for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Article 172. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that the debate on the budget cannot begin today, nor can it begin before 19 December, because it clearly says – it can begin at the earliest 15 days of the day of the adoption of the draft budget. So, in no way can you ignore this member of the Rules of Procedure, that you are referring to a member who is talking about proposing an emergency law, is the Budget Law not a ordinary law. For this reason there are several members of the Rules of Procedure who deal with the budget, the way in which he, when he comes to the Assembly, is considered by the MPs, the fact that the committees can also discuss the budget, a small number of committees discussed this afternoon only a few minutes before the draft budget, so this is how you violate the Rules of Procedure and I ask that we do not begin this session today with this point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40829	Thank you. You received the personal 4th of December at 17.00 hours, so you presented false information. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, it's not true. Well, I trust the services to do well and securely, that they have no intention of giving me the wrong... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I said – in electronic form of the fourth, and the sixth in print. We won't fight. I'll answer you. We won't fight. It's the 21st century. I'm glad it's December 8th and we're going to set the agenda today, and we're going to move on to debate tomorrow. I very much appreciate your experience in 2010, 2011 and 2012, when budgets were adopted here at midnight, so we did everything possible to adopt this year... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You are not answering me, but you are talking to me.) Mr. Djurishic, don't be rude and throw away the president. I won't give you a replica because that's impossible. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure either. Don't argue with me, stay calm and calm. Let your colleagues work. You see, since it's an important topic on the agenda, I'm not going to give you a single sentence, but this misbehave would also be punished at the party, let alone in parliament. Let the President of Parliament do his duty and to injure the Rules of Procedure... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You won't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I have to do it, and I can't do it in response to the injury. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No, you won't get it. I guarantee you that. So, 2010, 2011, and 2012, was adopted at midnight and in 2015 we began to discuss in time and I am glad that you were among the first and that on 4 December you received your example at 17.00 hours, the 21st century is, whether it is printed or electronic, you will agree that your party insists that Serbia goes much faster in accordance with time. Tell me, do you want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure at your address I won't, so you can't get your word back. You want it or not, for the record? Yeah. Let's move on. Is there anyone else who is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? ) You have been delivered records from the Fifth and Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 and we are moving to a decision on the same. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 10, 12 and 16 November 2015. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 40 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. I put to the vote The minutes of the sixth session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 November 2015. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing - 137 against - no one, the abstentioned - voted 37 of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Journal of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. We're moving on to the agenda. Before I move on to the agenda, we will consider proposals for an emergency procedure, a supplement and a proposal to merge the debate. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Scientific Research Work be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying no one against the abstentions has voted 175 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft guarantee agreement (EPS restructuring project) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing that – 141 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 35 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft decision on granting consent to the decision on amendments to the financial plan for the 2015 RFZO on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing - 143 against - two abstentions - no, 33 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2016 on the urgent procedure with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Invalidity Insurance Fund for 2016, the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2016, the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2016 National Employment Service Financial Plan, and the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 147 against - nine abstentions - there are no votes, 23 of the total of 179 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Excise Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 145, v - 10 abstentions – no, 24 of the 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Retirement-Employment Fund for 2015 be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 146, the seven abstentions, there is no vote, 27 of the 179 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's 2015 financial plan be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 146, v - six, abstentions - no, 27 of the 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Budget System Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 146, v - eight, abstentions - no, 25 of the 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Constitutional Court Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 144, against – six, abstentions – no, 30 of the 180 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Decision on granting consent to the Amending and Supplements of the Social Insurance Fund for 2015 be put on the agenda of the Emergency Procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 146, against - seven abstentions - there are no, 28 of the 181 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for expropriation, the issue of a building permit be put on the agenda for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 151, v – 13, abstention – one, 19 of the 184 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Public Media Services be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 152, v - 10 abstentions – no, 22 of the 184 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put on the agenda an amending and supplementing law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 152, v – 14, abstentions – no, 20 of the 186 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Slobodan Homen proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, 173 of the total of 183 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 184 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point of the bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I propose that in the agenda of this eighth session, gentlemen, this - The eighth session certainly wake up to different associations, people who follow politics, political life, political processes and parliamentary work in our country, to be included in the agenda of this eighth session and our bill on planning and planning of space and settlements. Dear gentlemen, it has been a year since we here at the House of the National Assembly here, Mrs Gojkovic, promised Minister Mihajlovic, to discuss her proposal for planning and building that, since we were not satisfied with the content of her bill, and that our dissatisfaction, I think, was later shared by the MPs of the ruling parties when two weeks after we voted for the proposal, we had to change the same proposal. We then called the proposal a piece of legislation and promised Minister Mihajlovic that in the shortest time, we would prepare a completely new, modern bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. I think, gentlemen, that we should add this one as 13, to these 12 points that are scheduled for this eighth session. I am now going to set out four points on the basis of which we are running and this proposal of our law to debate at this session. First of all, our proposal is that this law introduces a new Republic office for spatial and urban planning, for example. Second point, gentlemen, we are opening up the possibility of a civil proposal plan. We also said that to Minister Mihajlovic, but she did not want to hear it. Third point, we propose an extended system of spatial plans with a spatial landscape plan. Let's go, then, with a kind of innovation in this area. And, gentlemen, here, for example, point 4, we suggest that some new technical and operational solutions and procedures be introduced in the area concerned by this bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, we believe that it would be appropriate for Parliament's work and action to, instead of a rag from the law, discuss here first, and then adopt, accept a modern, appropriate moment in our country, the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40831	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 153 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the National Assembly's proposal for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 164 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac has proposed that the session be complemented by points - draft law on the proposed law. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40832	Thank you, Madam President. Our parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted a bill on the bill and I suggested that it be put back on the agenda. By who knows which time I suggest that this point be placed on the agenda, because I think it is necessary to pass this law in order to legally regulate the procedure for proposing and passing the law. Especially given the practice that has been present for the last three or four years, since this ruling majority has been in power and since it proposed laws. This matter is now regulated mainly by sublaws, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and has several members in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the Law on the National Assembly. There is no legislative regulation that would strictly regulate, so we have a situation where most laws are passed by emergency procedure, without enough time for MPs to get to know each other, that amendments respond and that they can prepare for a quality debate. Then, the lack of public debate in the process of adopting almost all laws, rarely when a public debate is held and it is held in a narrow circle, so that there is no possibility for relevant factors that have knowledge and experience in these areas to give their opinions and suggestions. What is still very important is that there is no respect for the resolution on legislative policy and no proposals for sublegal acts are submitted, so we have a case as at the last session when the Mining Act was, where a two-year deadline is given to adopt a sublegal act. These are too long deadlines, and that is why the Legislative Work Resolution has also been adopted. Because by the time the sublegal acts are passed, the law cannot generally be applied in practice and remains a dead letter on paper. In order to avoid all of this and not to come into a situation where the President of the Republic refuses to sign the law passed by this Assembly or sign it, and leave it to the Constitutional Court to assess whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, I suggest that this bill be placed on the agenda and that the Assembly pass law on the bill, in order for that matter to be regulated legally and to apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40833	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I suggest that this eighth session of the Second Regular Session of our National Assembly be included, please pay attention, as a special point, not to unite with 12 other points, but as a special point of our proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 24 September 2014 in the assembly procedure, this bill of ours has been unfairly, gentlemen. Why do I say it unfairly? Because our basic proposal for this law is to introduce in the Law on Higher Education one amendment which provides for the principle of academic integrity to be defined legally as one of the basic and most important principles of our system of higher education. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we propose that in one part of the Law on Higher Education and define the principle of academic integrity, by saying in law that academic honesty is based on independent workmaking and strict respect for other people's copyrights. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, we feel it is necessary that our National Assembly as our central political institution, we here repeat from session to session – the sanctuary of our political life, reacts to the huge problem we face in our system of higher education, especially in the last two years, and this is a plagiarism problem, respected gentlemen. The plagiarism is the most severe form of violation of the principle of academic integrity. Since especially in these two years we have faced a severe flood of plagiarism, we New Party MPs felt that the National Assembly must react to this difficult problem as an institution. I remind you that we are also resented that we have not responded as an institution, in an official European Parliament document, where it said in a report for Serbia that they are state institutions and that our academic community has failed to respond to this major problem. Now let's act, gentlemen, so that we don't get the grudges of this kind, and we don't fully edit our higher education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40835	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 153 of the total of 176 MPs present I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the conversion of credit to Swiss francs into euro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40836	The Honorable chairman, honourable MPs, my colleague Pavicevic from the New Party spoke today about the symbolism of numbers, the symbolism of eight. For the seventh time, I submit to the National Assembly a bill on the conversion of loans to Swiss francs into the euro. The number seven is a Bible number. I hope that, at least that fact will affect some MPs to ask whether their decisions are in line with justice, if not with the right, to ask whether it is fair for someone to take a dinar, and to return seven dinars to the bank, and that someone who took a dinar has no roof over his head and seven days on the streets of Belgrade is protesting, seeking his rights. The turnover movement passed a law on the conversion of loans from Swiss francs to the euro, nothing less than the law adopted by parliaments of countries whose citizens faced similar problems. Therefore, both governments and Hungary and Slovenia and Croatia and Montenegro and Bosnia, all countries, more specifically where the problem existed, sided with financial services users. The only government of the Republic of Serbia stands on the side of banks, on the side of banking monopolys and makes it impossible for hundreds of thousands of citizens, or 50,000 adults and 50,000 children to sleep peacefully under a roof over their heads who paid for it. They are not asking to get the benefit that Jorgenka Tabakovic received and to pay them back "Telecom". They demand to repay both debt and interest, but seek the Efficient Association and all those who protested these days will continue the protests, demand that it be a fair relationship. Why did the government allow children, mothers, to freeze in the streets of Belgrade? Why don't you step aside once? Why is the governor, the Prime Minister and the finance minister protecting the interests of the banks?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40837	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 154 out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – has voted 163, of the 177 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40838	Dear fellow MPs, I have submitted a bill supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities, with the aim of monitoring the good practice that exists in certain democracies in the world, which limits the amount of private donations to the parties in the campaign. Therefore, according to this proposal, Article 22a is inserted into the existing law, which provides that the total amount for the election of MPs in the campaign, therefore, can no longer be held in the Republic elections, i.e. The highest amount is 180 million dinars per political party, in the autonomous province of 60 million dinars, and in the locale, i.e. on the committee list, six million dinars and that the political entity that receives a higher amount than this is obliged to return the donor within five days. If they don't, they'll be punished for three months to three years. I think it is necessary that in Serbia, through such a provision, an amendment to the Law on the financing of political parties, political entities in our republic are brought about in an equal relationship, approximately in a relationship that will achieve and allow a fair political match and election campaign. In this situation, the strong proportions that existed before between the opposition parties and the opposition parties, I am also preparing an additional amendment and the addition of laws that will absolutely relate to the equal possibility of media coverage with national frequency. If we do not have equal representation in the media with a national frequency and a limited donation in political parties, in this case to 170 million dinars for the republican elections, we cannot have a fair democratic election match, which is absolutely at the moment going to the SNS, which has millions of euros in its current account now. Not to mention how much this will increase when the election campaign starts and I'm not talking about that there is no limit in millions of euros for you to spend in the election campaign, gentlemen. That is why I urge you to vote to put these amendments on the agenda, to bring Serbia's democracy and our political system into a situation where participants will be approximately equal in treatment, in rights and opportunities in the election match. If this is not possible with the bad things that have been happening so far by your government, and the intimidation and persecution and violence and bribery, we will not have a fair and democratic election match. We're not going to stop at this, and I'm going to look, of course, for changes that will allow equal representation in minutes at national frequencies, because that's both national and national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40839	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 152, out of a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Rehabilitation Act. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40840	Dear fellow Members of the People, Honored President, this is the first time I have explained the amendment and addition of the Rehabilitation Act. I ask and ask fellow Members of the People's MPs, all those who believe in the historical truth, who oppose the historic revisionism that is happening these months in the Republic of Serbia, to support these amendments and supplement the Law and put them on the agenda. The amendments and additions to the Rehabilitation Act that I have proposed contain two key things. One is that it enables the full rehabilitation of victims of severe courts from 1941 to 1944, and another is that the right to rehabilitation in the Republic of Serbia does not have persons who have been the perpetrators of repressive regulations that have legalized discrimination, persecution and the killing of innocent people in the period from 1941 to 1944, as well as any other person who were part of the Quinspeak apparatus during that period. Who and what is it? This provision, which I ask for support to be put on the agenda, in fact and de jure, prevents an irregular, anti-history, anti-civilization rehabilitation and an attempt to rehabilitate a man who is not even convicted, and this is Milan Nedic, as well as Dimitria Ljotic, as proven servants of a Nazi occupation in this country and people who do not deserve to be put into effect today because of the property needs of their successors, the shameful procedure of their rehabilitation and relativization of victims, and the Banjska camp and the Kraguje pogrom and all other things, covering the desire to cover some good deeds and good things, what was bad, and what was unquestionable. No doubt the historical truth is that Milan Nedic, as well as Dmitry Ljotic, was an occupier's servant. The proposal prevents an uninterrupted trial circus conducted in Serbia, where the people who served Hitler are allowed to equalise themselves with those who died and the fight for freedom. It's a shame he doesn't get this kind of support from the National Assembly. It's a shame in front of the victims of Banjica and the Old Fair. It is a shame in front of thousands who have been persecuted and killed, only because they are not the same political commitment, the same race or the same nation. Look into the eyes of your fellow citizens who do not feel the same way as you do and tell them that it was “a Serbian mother. ” "Serbian mother" made it possible for Banjica to be full until her release. "Serbian mother," so-called, made it possible for Belgrade to be "free" of its Jewish population and Roma in February 1942.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40841	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40842	I think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40843	I'm just asking you not to use your expressions as a judiciary, a circus or anything. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 146 of the total attendance of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40844	Thank you, Mr. President. I have already tried several times to get support for the draft law by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the Assembly on 29 June this year, and related to the amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. In fact, we believe that the solutions that are now in the law are unfair, that the way in which local self-government, above all, users of certain unclear provisions in the law, the existing law has raised tax solutions for 20, 30, 80, in some cases 200, 300% of the amount of the 2014 solution, we have submitted a bill for amendment and supplementation. The basics and essences of this law are in several members. This is – not to tax the entire building land if it is larger than 10 acres, but only the difference, the difference of 10 acres, what is greater than 10 acres. According to the current interpretation, if you have a building plot of size, let's say, 13 acres, your tax is charged on all 13 acres, and our solution is to account for only three. So it clearly states that the non-taxable part of the 10 acres, and that only the difference is taxed, that the solutions that have been issued for this year, for land tax is not interpreted like this by the state authorities, but for all parcels greater than 10 acres of the total amount of tax on property are accounted for, such solutions have been handed over to citizens. Another important change is that instead of the current way of lending, that is to say, tax cuts, which is up to 40% if the owner lives in that address, a different principle is introduced, that apartments are released, or houses 25 square meters per household member. This would practically mean that a four-member household would not pay taxes if it lived in an apartment or a house of up to 100 square meters. We believe that this way is more appropriate, in order to avoid the injustices that we have today, that due to tax returns and some extra zones introduced by local self-government, property tax, some old apartments, old houses in cities are charged in the amount of several thousand euros. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Jovanovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law on freedom of fear. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. President. Our proposal, by supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, which we already try several times to put on the agenda, is to change the rate at which the value added tax on baby food is charged, i.e. to apply a special rate of tax on baby food and to tax at a lower rate of 10%, instead of the current 20%. We believe and have repeated several times that this is just the beginning, one small measure that should indicate that we understand the problem, one of the biggest problems the state of Serbia is facing today, which is the problem of black plague, that each year the number of Serbian citizens decreases by about 30,000. It is likely that this number will grow in years ahead of us, i.e. it will grow smaller and smaller, above all because of the poor lives of citizens who are pressuring the poor economic situation due to the disastrous measures of the government's economic policy, they have to give up both food and medicine. Unfortunately, on the other hand, a large number of people decide to seek their happiness outside our country. First of all, we want to send a message to those young people who haven't started their family yet that the state cares about them and wants to take care of them, to create conditions for them, that they can start a family, that they can start to create offspring, because they're free of the state, we're free of all that we're doing today if in 20, 30 or 50 years in Serbia there's not enough people who can live and work and create a future for generations to come. The answer to this has always been negative from fellow MPs, although when we had a debate on changes and additions to value added tax, the minister himself was not negative under our proposal. He said it wasn't impossible, that it would only increase the administration, but that he wasn't sure that even baby food prices would decrease in that case. We want to believe that after all these messages about how the state works great, that the state is able to implement a measure like this and that the adoption of this measure is, I repeat, the beginning of a comprehensive programme that will find a way to deal with the problem of demographicism in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40846	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40847	Thank you, Mr. President. Parliament group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the Assembly on September 15th a draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary adjustment of the way pensions were paid. Since then, we have tried several times to put this point on the agenda of the Assembly, to explain that if all the information that we have received through the media is correct, by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, that our financial situation is great and wonderful, that conditions have been created for us to stop the validity of the Law on the temporary regulation of the way we pay out pensions. Today, at this session we begin, we will also have a debate on the 2016 budget, and we will certainly, in this debate, talk about the effects of the application of this law. Unfortunately, the law did not lead to a reform of the recovery of Serbian finances. The only thing he brought was the deepening of poverty, the most endangered, the oldest citizens of Serbia, citizens who have worked their whole lives and earned their pension, which is contrary to the constitution, in our opinion, reduced by the adoption and entry into force of this law. We therefore believe that this law should cease to apply, that pensions must return to the level at which they were before the application of this law, that the difference in outstanding pensions must be paid out of the budget, and regardless of how you are likely to be rejected by this law again and that you will not accept our draft amending budget and budget law for 2016, this will happen in Serbia, I believe, in Serbia. The Strasbourg court, I believe, will assess that this law is unconstitutional, i.e. it is not legal and it will have to be the state of Serbia in years ahead of us to correct this injustice brought by this assembly, when this law has been passed and when, I repeat, the oldest citizens of our country have been taken away from us one part of the pension, not entirely in accordance with the Constitution and without real effect on the recovery of Serbian finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40848	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 153 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40849	Thank you. Our proposal for an amendment to the Arms and Ammunition Act concerns the obligation of medical examination and testing for all holders and users of weapons, where we primarily think about those who have guns, guns, and we don't think at all about the Association of Hunters, who have their weapons, they cultivate their weapons and watch their weapons, knowing that their weapons don't need to kill people, unlike legal gun-holders, such as guns and guns that have that weapon in order to kill people. Because you don't kill a single animal with a gun, you can have that kind of weapon because it makes you happy and we can understand it, but we believe that in our society too many legal and illegal weapons and that it is necessary that persons, citizens, men or women, who have a license to hold and carry weapons be subjected to regular, time-space, medical examination, medical evaluation, to know that these weapons are not held by a loose person, persons prone to violence, persons of unpredictable, musculoskeletal character and psychological characteristics that should not be associated with having and holding a gun or a gun. Of course, these changes and laws do not involve official gun-bearing licenses either, because those persons who have an official license to hold and carry or use firearms are passing checks anyway, and we believe that our society is war-like, post-traumatic, extremely prone to violence, with enough, unfortunately, tragic reports of casualties, which in the family, which in the street, is narrowed to consciousness, where the use of firearms occurs and tragic results from death throughout families. I'm really asking you to understand that it's a common interest, to have this change put into the law and at least to ensure that we have a record of the medical assessment of the profile of the holder, the holder and those carrying arms, such as guns and guns. Sooner or later, we're going to bring this in, like a change, so rather sooner than later, who knows how many lives we can save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40850	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40851	Thank you. Shortly after the tragedy, on March 13, 2015, when seven people were killed in the tragic end of the rescue mission "Helicopter" and after the two commissions had made their report and informed the public, I submitted, and in agreement with the MP group DS a proposal that the National Assembly set up a survey committee, to determine all the facts that led to the fact that one good intention in using a military helicopter ended in the death of seven people for whom, as already, seven months absolutely no one was responsible. Except that the Disciplinary Court of the Army of Serbia, because these generals have no one to protect and no one to support them, has given them a measure of advancement in the service, which shows, unfortunately, how we can mock the rule of law. The two main issues to be addressed by the polling committee are those issues that have no answers in any report, which relate to the direct conduct of the defence minister. There are clear answers for him in the reports that he violated co-ordination, that he used oral orders, that he did not follow protocols, but there are no answers to two questions. The first is, based on whose, what and what information, who provided the defence minister with information that the order to organize the rescue mission is necessary? Who informed him that anyone was at risk, so that he should bring an order that had to be written? Who did he get the information from? Another important question, which has no answer, who changed the flight plan when the helicopter returned to Belgrade after the mission was completed? Who's the person who changed flight plans on meteor conditions? These two questions, when then, must be answered. We, attached to the rule of law and putting all the authorities in a position of control and supervision under the National Assembly, believe that the polling committee is the best place to do so. Not only, as a place where we would find answers to these two important questions, but, as a place where everyone in the executive government, to all ministers, this and the future, would be made clear that the Constitution and the law must be respected and that the rule of law must be subject. For the dead and their families, there is not enough comfort, but it can be rights, justice probably cannot be, and rights can be if we together decide that this assembly is set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40852	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point-by-point proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40853	I thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of distinguished colleagues and especially colleagues, here for the fifth time today I am trying to convince you, to put into the agenda a point that should prevent people who have legal possession of weapons from committing serious crimes of the murder of their spouses, or domestic violence. Today, we had a chance to hear that only in 2015, 33 women were killed, of which 15 with firearms, of which seven with a gun, eight with a gun. So, this law, i.e. the amendment of the law, we believe that the general interest of all women in Serbia, of all citizens of Serbia, is particularly appealing to the Women's Parliamentary Network, which has made us happy today with some document printed in full color on expensive paper, ladies and colleagues, as much as you are engaged in the gender-responsible budgeting in the Republic of Serbia, could also support a law that will just make it impossible for violent people to commit violence against your colleagues, friends, sisters and our mothers. I would like to stress that if you accept this proposal, the DS MPs will not discuss it, no one will answer. To be clear to the citizens, this proposal can be voted literally in two minutes. I ask you to overcome the party prejudices, to overcome the day-to-day political differences, to realize that this bill prevents what happened exactly in Horgos, where a man killed six people in one day on 17 May this year, and that same man was in the police station before that event and he was not deprived of a gun for which he has legal permission. So it's about people the state has legally given to hold arms, and they're committing mass killings that can be prevented. Is this enough? It's not. Is it a step? Yes, it is. I appeal once again, first of all to my colleagues, look around you, convince your colleagues that this law is primarily women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40854	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 136 of the 166 MPs present. This proposal will not be included in this session, and I would ask the proposings to sit with all the heads of parliament, I am saying on behalf of the Women's Parliamentary Network, to sit down to look at the bill and to make a joint proposal, as we have done with other social and useful laws. Thank you, that's my proposal as a letter. National MP Branka Karavidic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – draft law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. The word is Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40855	Thank you, Madam President. fellow MPs, this is the seventh time I've tried to put amendments and additions to this law on the agenda. In fact, the European Commission's report on the state of affairs in Serbian media from a month ago is unfortunately devastating. There is no progress in applying the Law on Public Information and the media, on the contrary. The obligation is to enroll all owners directly or indirectly, who own more than 5% of the stake in the ownership structure by August of the month, has not yet come to life. The adoption of a set of media laws in August 2014 is unfortunately the only success that the European Commission recognises. So we haven't moved any further since August 2014. Does it matter to us that we know who the media owners are? All those who in some way influence the formation of our opinion, and here I mean not only those who are obliged to enlist in the register with more than 5% share in the ownership structure, but also those who own less than 5% share, and who exercise effective control, editorial policy, as well as sources of funding for more media. Unfortunately, practice has shown that there are cases like this. My proposal to amend the Law on Public Information and the media provides that all owners must register directly or indirectly, regardless of the level of share in founding capital. In this way, we will ensure the transparency of the ownership structure, which will help restore citizens' confidence in the media, while at the same time reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media. I will remind you that one of the constitutions of guaranteed rights and the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality of the availability of legal persons, and for these reasons I call on you to support this proposal to amend this law on the agenda of this session, particularly in the interests of Serbian citizens, and I note that there is still no need to ignore yesterday's statement by the rapporteur of the European Parliament, Mr David McCalister, on the state of affairs in the Serbian media and on his concern about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40856	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 148 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40857	I thank the esteemed president. Our parliamentary group has submitted a bill supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government at the beginning of the year, and I don't know which time I suggest putting this into the agenda. Namely, it is now a scholarship of students and students in the jurisdiction of the Republic and we know the state of the republican budget and how few opportunities it is to help students and students who are in poor material conditions, to study and to finish schools that they are capable of and who have potential. Of course, we need those experts. We therefore propose to complete the Law on Local Self-Government by providing for the possibility of scholarship of students and students in the jurisdiction of local self-government. Local self-governments themselves allocate funds for these purposes, but since they do not have a legal basis, they must not call it so, but rather call the funds and baptize them with legal aid, financial assistance or in various other ways. Most of the time, they tend to help students and students to get their education and stay here after school. By passing this law, they would give legal basis to local self-governments to do so in a legal and correct manner, transparently and publicly, and to be available to all students. We do not understand why the ruling majority does not find an understanding for the adoption of this bill? Is it because the tendency lately to centralize and what is not centralized, as we had an example at the last session of the Mining Act, where certain responsibilities of local self-government were transferred to a republican level, and this would be a counter-directing and would be a vision of decentralisation, power, authorities of the Republic and transfer to local self-government? Is it really a resistance to decentralisation that everyone in the election campaign has talked about or have no understanding of materially endangered students and students who are really hard to complete their education in these conditions and economic conditions?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40858	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the session be completed at the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40859	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I think it is the 15th time now that I propose an amendment to the Health Insurance Act and Article 41. It's interesting that everywhere I've been and with all the people I've talked to, I've got the support for this law. Many associations, the NGO sector supported this law, and it is interesting, respected citizens, that MPs who have promised to work for the benefit of citizens, that the government who says it is working for the benefit of citizens do not want to support this bill, which says that the right to treat mouth disease and to repair teeth should be given to all citizens of Serbia, especially those who pay contributions, and who have 4.5 million, and who are the only ones who do not have the right to fix teeth and cure mouth diseases through the funds of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. It doesn't get in my head somehow, I don't get it. I don't know what the problem is. I'll remind the citizens that I was speaking, and it can also be seen from the documentation, that at the position of dentistry in the Republic Health Insurance Fund there were over 350 million dinars unscheduled. The government told me there was no money. Now, so I don't get into controversy with the government whether there's money or not, if there's no money, why is it standing in the position of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but here, today, that is. Tomorrow we will begin the debate and by the end of the week, according to the congregation majority, we will vote the 2016 budget. What prevents you, dear colleagues, from providing about 300 million dinars in the new 2016 budget to repair the teeth of Serbian citizens? We live in Serbia where there are a lot of people without teeth, where there is no man with no teeth in his jaw. We live in Serbia that doesn't have enough money to get people to go to a private dentist, no matter how low the prices and no matter how cheap the services are to fix their teeth, we live in Serbia where we as MPs don't vote and we don't give people the opportunity to have their money, I repeat, their money, in the Republic Fund there's a pair of insurance companies, i.e. Serbian citizens, and we don't let them fix their teeth with dentists. I don't think that's right, and I think that Serbian citizens should listen to this, watch, especially pay attention to how we vote, and make a commitment the next time they trust the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40860	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40861	Thank you. I suggested that the draft law on information and media and in the package be re-examined and amended as well as the proposal for a law on public media services. Why did I suggest this? Over a year and a half ago, this Assembly decided that at the local level of the municipality, cities do not have the right to be founders of public media services from the budget. This assembly adopted it with a vast majority of votes. This Assembly then also adopted that the tax, which is a former subscription, and since then the tax, will be 500 dinars for the Public Media Service and this Assembly has adopted that there are two media services in the Republic of Serbia – RTTV and RTS, and those living under Sava and Danube do not have the possibility to have regional public television. I suggest this more than 10 times, at 10 sessions, because I thought it was a failure, because we say we're well-intentioned and we want the same rights and obligations on the whole territory, but as far as I can see, it's a little unbalanced. This assembly has voted in favour of all Serbia, but this assembly does not allow citizens across the territory to have the same rights. Why do I say that? Well, TV covers the territory of the Vojvodina and can deal much better with local issues and what interests the citizens of Vojvodina and that's totally fine. The Serbian Radio Television covers the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, but apart from covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, it does not have equal representation of the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The subject deals with Belgrade, which is normal, Belgrade is the capital and it does not bother anyone. There are also topics from Vojvodina, but what is important for citizens under Sava and Danube, topics that are a daily problem and what interests the everyday life of the place under Sava and Danube, there is not enough. Usually it's just a black chronicle, which is important, which is a communal problem, which is a health issue, which is a culture on a particular part of the territory under Sava and Danube, it's not represented at all. So, we'll find out before we know if there's a tram in Belgrade, rather than if we Nishli know whether the Nis-Niška spa is going to be a normal line. It doesn't exist. That's why we proposed regionally small service. We suggested he be represented as well as the tv, where there are two television and three radio programs. I remind you that Radio Nis is one of the oldest radio stations in Serbia, which has been shut down and does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40862	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40863	Thank you. I'll keep going. What I suggested, and I expected the Assembly to accept, especially Nish MPs, because we have, I will remind the Nish MPs, we have a unanimous decision of the City Assembly, and I think that on two occasions it was voted, and positions and opposition, that Nis should have a public service. For a wonderful miracle, only those of Nis who are from the opposition vote for this proposal, and the MPs who are in the congregation majority from the territory of the city of Nis do not vote for this proposal, although they have an obligation to party, city, human, congregation, whatever you want to call it, to vote and support this proposal. I don't understand how that changes the way you think when you cross the drum stream. You're all in Nis for a regional public service, as you cross the drum stream, you change the way you think and none of you vote. I call on you, and I would ask the director to show the citizens of Nis who voted for this proposal, because you received an obligation when you became representatives of the Nis citizens, to vote, who voted for this proposal and who did not vote for this proposal. I'll end up explaining how funding would be, because it was said that there was no funding source for a regional public service, that there were two television and three radio programs and that it would be financed in the same way as TV, i.e. 30% go for RTS financing and 70% to be used to finance radio-television within Serbia, i.e. that regional radio-TV program. They say he can't. Well, how can he not? How can he finance himself in Vojvodina and not under Sava and Danube? What's wrong? It seems that Serbian citizens under Sava and Danube are only good when they need to pay for something, and then when they need to benefit from benefits and benefits, they can't do that. I thought the problem might be solved in a different way, because I was counting on it, they don't want to accept the opposition's proposal but to have their own proposal, because at this session we're going to talk about amending the Law on Public Media Service, but the change is going in that direction that the tax is probably going to be lower than 500 dinars, and the rest will be financed from the budget. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, and we are filling that budget, not filled by the Germans, so it's our money again, and again the money of the Serbian citizens under Sava and Danube will be financed by the public media service RTS and RTV, and we under Sava and Danube will not have the privilege of knowing what is important to the lives of every local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40864	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40865	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, here's who knows which time I propose an amendment to the law, popularly called the law on Belgrade on water. I suggest for two reasons. The first reason it's a deeply anti-constitutional law, at least that's what the lawyers I've been talking to say, and the second is because of the way the whole project is financed. Let me also explain to the citizens who are not in the middle of what's going on. It is against the law because this law allows the expropriation of private property in part of the territory of a Belgrade municipality, and not for what is usually expropriated. Expropriation under the Expropriation Act is carried out if it is the object of general purpose, schools, hospitals, kindergartens, traffic, power lines. It means everything of general interest and it stands well after that expropriation, i.e. The ransom, he agreed, didn't agree with the owner with that ransom. In this case, the state and the City of Belgrade have the right to purchase private property on the territory of the Sava Plato, part of a Belgrade municipality along the Sava River, but not to build objects for general purposes, but to give to an investor without a tender, without bidding to build a residential business facility, and to sell the facility and to share profits with the state. That's one thing. Secondly, in order for the investor to do so at all, it is necessary to remove the railway station, to move the railway, to bring water, electricity, sewerage into that part of the municipality, to create access stations, and this will not be done from the funds of the City of Belgrade, but will be done from the financing of the Republic budget. I'm against it. I propose that we also vote to adopt this proposal, to change the injustice towards the Republic budget and the citizens of Serbia, because we all say that we want to start production, that we need new jobs and give that money, and it is hundreds of millions of euros, that we focus on economic activities, not on building a housing block. It is now 300 one bedroom, two bedroom and three bedroom apartments. I don't know how two buildings with 150 apartments can start a business. In my town, they build buildings, not like in Belgrade, there are no people of money, but I don't see tens of thousands of people running that thing. With that 100, 200 or 300m euros, we will launch much more jobs than building two residential buildings in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40866	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40867	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this assembly majority, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, will remind you, then Minister Krstic, former Finance Minister of the Assembly's majority, took down 2% of the contributions to health insurance on August 1st 2014 to disburse the republican budget for some 300m euros, as it was transferred from one position to another, in order for the budget to touch pensions less, because there is not enough money to pay out pensions. It's just that there's extra money in the RFO, that it's more useful to switch it to a pension position. What does that look like in reality? I'll read it to you in a minute and a half. So by reducing the contribution to health insurance by 2% of the Fund's budget was projected to 215.7 billion, although before that, while the budget was 12.3%, it was 236 billion. That's 20.3 billion less than it was in 2014, until we changed the law. By reducing the rate of contribution to 10.3%, income from contributions to employees who were 165.9 billion was reduced to 123 billion in 2015, thereby reducing the Fund's budget by 40.6 billion dinars. Furthermore, the funds of the Fund to be received from the Republic budget on behalf of the Republic budget, under Article 22. The Health Insurance Act, which is financing over a million and 300,000 Serbian citizens through the republican budget, is unemployed, those on the bureau, the social welfare. So, for them, the Republic is obliged to pay contributions to have health insurance. Instead of 12.3 billion, the Republic has designed, I'll read to you, 530 million dinars, which is four euros per fuse. In order for everything not to look like this in 2016, I urge you to return 2% to the Republic Fund of Contributions, because without these pairs, the function of the fund is being questioned, the question of how Serbian health will function in 2016. It is 300m euros, enormous money for Serbian health care. The rights and obligations are the same, and the budget has been cut by over 35 billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40868	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Police Act. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40869	Dear Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, the bill does not come from any political party. This bill comes from brave women who have suffered violence, from brave women from the Autonomous Women's Center who have sent letters to all of us for months to support women who have suffered violence. They also sent you an open-air poll to support the Istanbul Convention signed by the state of Serbia, which opposes violence against women. This proposal comes from women who have suffered violence. These brave women are looking for the state of Serbia to move to protect their rights, to remove the bully from its family home, to protect the victim and that the practice that exists in Serbia, that a woman who suffers violence must flee and hide in a safe house, I have never been clear about favouring such safe houses and leaving a bully in a home, and that a woman who has suffered violence must flee, hide, leave her children, leave her family home and hide in a safe home. These brave women from the Autonomous Women's Center are asking for the state to send a clear message to the bully – if you raise your hand to the woman, the state stands up to the protection of that woman, to temporarily move that bully out of his home for 15 days, to protect the woman and her family home for 15 days, to ban contact with the woman, when he has inflicted violence against that woman, that the woman has the right to think in peace of mind whether she will press charges against her husband or fiancé, to consider whether she will launch a divorce case against such a person who has raised her hand against her, and not in fear of running away in bruises, with blood leaks, to flee and to hide from him in a safe house, and that the bully is sitting at home watching TV. Dear fellow Members of mine, dear Serbian citizens, once a bully raises his hand to a woman, he will do so again and again for the second and third time. Let's now boldly tell the thugs - enough, let's now mention 33 women who have lost their lives since the beginning of this year in domestic violence, let's say that as a prosecutor's office in 2014, we have launched more than 3,500 reported cases of domestic violence, that 1,680 cases have been handled by the prosecution and that lawsuits have been filed. As a doctor, I'm telling you there are a lot more women who suffer this violence, a lot more of those women who suffer and keep quiet. Let us, as Parliament, give support and get the bully out of the house...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40870	Time. Thanks, buddy. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 148 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to identify the facts and circumstances in which the listening happened, the publication of a transcript of talks between Lydia Udovicki, "Continental Wind of Serbia" and Bojan Pajtic, the president of the Ukrainian government and the Democratic Party, given the fact that they allegedly tried corruption made by the director of the Public Enterprise "EMS", Nikola Petrovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40871	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues have been passing for months, as he unfortunately did not receive any official court epilogue from one of the biggest affairs that rocked Serbia, which is an illegal secret listener of the Prime Minister and representative of the DS, Mr Bojan Pajtic. How serious this subject is in favour and that the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic himself has repeatedly called out to the public when the services already cannot protect him with the desire to finally know who is illegal, secretly listening to Serbian citizens and high-ranking state officials in Serbia. I'm talking about this because unfortunately this is, I think, the fifth or sixth time that we're proposing the establishment of the Survey Committee in the Assembly for one single reason – to this day, except for the media Satanization of DS President Bojan Pajtic, we haven't had a chance to see any epilogue in the state bodies. I remind you, we had the opportunity to hear just seven days ago that a coup was taking place in Serbia, and it ended only, and only on the front pages of the regime's boards that were celebrating the coup. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this matter is extremely serious. This thing is a drop in the sea of trouble, a drop that just pours a glass. For what? Because the state is at risk, because in a country where a coup is being talked about, in a country where the President of the Republic says someone is secretly listening to him, in a country that transcripts the talks of the Prime Minister and Mrs. Udovicki's president, no one has been going through the process in the past few months, nor is anyone interested in who's doing it. We heard in the same day that the police didn't listen to anyone secretly, illegally. We've heard it doesn't work either, but people who do? Someone's obviously working. Our services paid to protect telecommunications between MPs and high-ranking state officials obviously don't want to determine exactly who does it. Our wish is that if the state authorities, who are paid and tasked with doing this job, do not want, cannot do, have political pressure not to do it, that this thing should be brought down to parliament, and that in the highest legislative body, the Committee of Auditors will finally come to the full truth and protect our state officials, including the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. Everything else we think is a need for this thing to be politicized. Our wish is not to politicize this thing. On the contrary, it is our desire that only the citizens of Serbia know what is true. We're not saying he's secretly listening to the BIA, the MUP, but to see who's doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40872	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be completed with the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40873	Thank you, Madam President. I think my proposal is known to the MPs, given that I have proposed it more than 20 times. Namely, I suggest that the Criminal Code amends which will consist of the fact that among crimes that do not go out of line and the crime of stealing babies are committed. This obligation of the Republic of Serbia comes from 2013 when the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the case of one of our fellow citizens that it has been violated by the right to privacy and family life and has obliged the RS to adopt this bill by September 2015. The 20th time I propose this and this proposal really is one of those laws where we really can't figure out why MPs in the ruling coalition don't want to vote for it. I think that this group of laws are, say, the changes that would allow a bully to be removed from the common household, not a woman who suffers violence, a change that would consist of people who are violent in the family taking away weapons, changes that would consist of those who have weapons having to undergo certain checks, regularly, etc. We can't find another reason why the SNS doesn't vote for it, except that it doesn't want to do it because it comes from the opposition's representative. The hope for me is that last time the President forbade me to read the names of MPs who did not want to vote in favour of this bill and the composition of the Republic Assembly and the way MPs voted in secret because it tells me that she is also ashamed that the MPs of the SNS do not want to adopt this bill for more than a year. So, if you're still embarrassed, and I hope you're ashamed, I'm going to suggest this, and hopefully someday, even in a year, you'll agree to adopt all these bill proposals, because tomorrow you too need to go out on the street in your town and maybe meet someone whose kid was stolen and explain to him why you didn't want to give him a long time to investigate what happened to that kid, and until then, you should be ashamed of yourself, and I won't read the names.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40874	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40875	As you know, the DS has never supported the SNS's proposal to cut pensions to citizens who have worked hard and honest throughout their working lives and citizens who regularly paid all taxes and contributed. We remain unclear from the very title of the law, which has proposed and adopted the SNS, which is why MPs and the RS government are ashamed to say in the very title of the law what it is. It's about cutting pensions indefinitely. It is, above all, a fraud for our oldest citizens who have been punished without any explanation in the law adopted by the SNS. The Constitutional Court did not condemn that law. The Constitutional Court did not find it appropriate to decide whether or not acquired rights can be reduced and whether someone else can take property without being held accountable. The pensioner's union, along with the DS, organised stands across Serbia, and over 40,000 signatures were collected to put the law, a shameful law, SNS robbery law out of effect. For this reason, I have proposed a law on the termination of the Pension Reduction Act. Because we think he's hitting and touching the property of people who've worked their entire working life fair and square. We do not understand why the United Pensioners Party of Serbia supported such a shameful solution and the law, and we do not understand why the SNS punished those people. For what, hundreds of thousands of the oldest citizens, why punish pensioners? And today, every month, they have a problem paying a higher price for electricity, paying a higher price for basic supplies, and year after year, a higher property tax. They have a problem paying and more expensive heating. They have a problem with daily expenses and everyday life, and what is most important and most important, with which Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic agreed first and foremost as a prominent doctor and doctor, with which pensioners will be treated today? That's the basic question. How will he buy drugs and what money?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40876	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40877	Thank you. Dear President, perhaps now the citizens sitting at their homes are wondering what part of the National Assembly session is. This is part of the session where opposition MPs can propose putting on the agenda the laws they consider important. We see how the opposition's proposals go, which are for the isolation of the domestic bully, who are for the rights of the family whose babies are gone, which are against violence, etc. They pass so that the other hall will not vote for those laws. Why? Because they come from the opposition and it doesn't matter that they are useful to Serbian citizens. The second law I proposed on behalf of the Turnover Movement and concerning...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40878	Is that when it's the law, or do you want it in three minutes, both of you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40879	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40880	You can't talk about the second law now. So, protection of users of financial services.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40881	Since I've already explained one thing, that's why I've just said another law. Therefore, the law amending the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The turnaround asked to disable the interest-bearing behaviour of banks. Is that a problem, gentlemen People's MPs from power? Is it a problem that the Turnaround suggested that green interest be disabled? Is it a problem that, together with the Efficiency Association, we have collected 20,000 signatures for petitions to prevent the behaviour of banks that would be monopolytic? Is that a problem? Why don't you vote for that law? Is it because you're protecting the interests of foreign banks? Is that the only reason you don't vote? Is the reason you don't vote for the interests of citizens, and each of us, each of you and those watching this transmission are citizens who are threatened by the monopoly behaviour of banks? When you leave or get paid 100 dinars hard, tomorrow you'll have 98 dinars instead of 102 dinars, because, say, you've been saving a few days. Why? Because banks take, they kidnap on the basis of general conditions of business. We ask you to accept this law and propose to protect the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40882	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law on additions to the Criminal Code. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40883	This is a law we could call a law for fair elections. The Movement for Movement has proposed amendments to the Criminal Code, which would make it impossible to steal in the elections, which would make it impossible to buy votes in the elections, which would prevent voters from being intimidated by members of political organisations, which would prevent the identification of ballots, the control of the vote. Is that a problem, gentlemen of the SNS? Is the problem fair elections? Is it a problem for you to go to the polls and line up with opposition parties you think aren't strong enough for you? Why don't you vote for this law? Why don't you want fair elections? So, in this law amending the Criminal Code, it is intended to punish not only the perpetrators of criminal acts, like those who bought the last vote and are now with you in the coalition, not, but to punish their employers, the presidents of the municipal committees, and, if necessary, the president of the party who gave the order to buy votes. Is that what you're afraid of? That some party president would end up in jail for giving a warrant to buy votes? Are you afraid it'll end...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40884	Would you suggest your bill, so we can figure out what's in the proposal?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40885	That's a suggestion. Three to five years is a proposal for prison sentences for someone who orders the purchase of votes, intimidation and intimidation. So that's the proposal of this law, Your Honor. We ask nothing but that the elections be fair, that whenever elections are held, in April, May or anytime, they are fair, that those who go out to vote in secret, not by marking the ballot and bringing it to the director of the public enterprise to show him how they voted. By taking a picture of him using a mobile phone or a camera or a pen that has a camera on it and showing how they voted. We call on citizens to go to elections, to go out to the polls, and we are here to protect this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40886	Don't keep the rally, just about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40887	... to protect every voice. Therefore, this law should protect every vote of every man who goes to elections and we will certainly do everything possible to ensure that this law is passed, that is to say, to safeguard every vote of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40888	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 155 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Radenković proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2015, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Charter on amendments to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2015, the Proposal for a Decision on amending the Act amending the National Employment Service Act for 2015, the Proposal for a Decision on amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for the Social Insurance Fund for 2015, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2016, the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a Decision on amendments to the Financial Fund for the Social Insurance of the Military Insurance Fund for the 2015, the Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Republic of Serbia and of the European Parliament to the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament to the Council on the European Parliament and the Council on the European Parliament and to the Council on the European Parliament and to the Council on the Council on the European Social Security, the European Parliament, the Europeans, the European Parliament and the Council and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council and the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council and the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council, the Council and the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, and the Council, and the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, and the Council, Does Ambassador Dejan Radenkovic want a word? (No) Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40889	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that this proposal violates Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure and I am sorry that counterpart Radenkovic did not want to explain his proposal. I wanted to hear from him how it is possible to combine the discussion of the budget laws, the budgetary system, the excise law, and then comes the law on the Constitutional Court, the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Media Services, the law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. So all these laws have something to do with the budget and I can accept the unification of 11 of the 12 proposed points of today's agenda in the joint debate because all these topics are about the budget. However, there is one law that does not belong here, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the determination of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. The bill, if you have read it, has absolutely nothing to do with the 2016 budget, nor with public finances, nor with anything, but with the government's intention to hide and to conceal the possibility of discussing another fraud that is being made in this House, another fraud by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by practically leading the debate on the budget and on all these laws, will be very little or no room to talk about this hoax, and these are amendments to the Law on the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. I do not see any connection that this law is found in the unification of 12 laws proposed by counterpart Radenkovic. I think this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure again, and please, the chairman, that you, by Rule 27. The Rules of Procedure, which you are in charge of implementing this Rules of Procedure, refuse to give a statement on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40890	Thank you. I will answer you, although you most often do not want to hear this, the MP has used his right under Article 92(2), Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As you have used your right to honor the merger of the debate, so is he, an MP, equal to all others to use the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the way he wants it, and the Assembly will declare itself by voting which one of you is right. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40891	Thank you, Madam President. I can't understand that if someone is given the answer once or twice, then for the third time, but there are people who can't learn from that answer, I don't know how to define it all. It's not enough for someone to change the name of a political option, to turn around. He's 107. Rules of Procedure, Item 1, so that all things may be forgotten, and all that is done, and how it is done. I would remind you, Madam President, that at the meeting of the National Assembly on 5 May 2010, 94 agenda points were merged, that 57 agenda points were joined at the session on 11 December 2009, that 64 agenda points were joined at the session of 29 May 2009, that on 13 May 2009, the same distinguished colleagues voted to join the agenda points, full of 50 agenda points. It would probably take me a lot more than two minutes to tell you all the points of merger that weren't less than 20, 20 and something to 94 points of the agenda that were connected. Otherwise, how does "Belgrade on Water" not affect our country's economy? I think that this claim by Mr Đurisic himself speaks more and will be told more by the professional public about how one investment of several billion euros does not affect our country's economy and does not define or affect our country's budget. It still speaks more of Mr. Djurisic's ignorance or wish for ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40892	Thank you. You want us to vote on Article 107's injury? Thank you. I have to do it directly, and with silence I can't do it, especially when someone gets word of injury to the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't. I understand your need for obstruction. There's no need. There's no need. We have plenty of time to talk about everything. Abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injuries will take up your time from the entire discussion, because it's my right. You want to take a chance? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40893	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to point to your breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is exactly the point of Article 103 that you're threatening to take away my time. So I believe that the previous discussion was in no way an indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure because, as we have observed here, I can also speak false things. But what I was saying, I don't see how I offended the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40894	You abuse the Rules of Procedure now and you want to replicate. Sit down, please. You are replicating because you are not satisfied with what has been brought to the public, and I have not interrupted you, nor has MP Zoran Babic when you have presented your assessments of the individual proposals of the law that are fraud and I have been maximum tolerance. I'm not gonna take two minutes away from you because I want everyone to have as much time as the voters have given them to talk about the bill we have tomorrow on the agenda, but I'm not going to let you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and use the time to answer something. I know the truth hurts, but what do we do? I am putting on a vote to bring the debate together, what MP Dejan Radenkovic suggested. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 13, the abstentions – there is no, no vote 12, of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Dejan Radenkovic. Since we've come to terms with all the proposals, I'd like to put the agenda proposal to the vote, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – nine abstentions – there is no, no vote – 10, of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. The proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension-Employment for 2015; the Proposal for a Decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2015; the Proposal for a Decision on the amending the National Employment Service for 2015; the 4th Proposal for a Decision on a Decision on the granting of Understanding on Amendments to the Agreements to the Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the 2015 Social Insurance Fund; the 5th Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2016 with a proposal for a Decision on the granting of Understanding to the Financial Fund for the Pension-Inhabitation Fund for the year 2016; the proposal for a Law on financial security of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2016; the proposal for a Law on the financial year 2016 on the implementation of the European Fund for the Social Security and Security of the European Fund for the European Fund for the European Social Fund for the European Fund for the European Social Fund for the financial year2016 ; the financial year2016 ; the financial year2016 ; the European Fund for the European Fund for the European Fund for the European Fund for the European Fund for the European Fund for the Fund for the financial years2016; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty The EPS restructuring project between the Republic of Serbia, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development and 12. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Media Services. I'd like a little patience to hear from Ambassador Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40895	Madam Chairman, can you just allow us to work in the spirit of parliamentaryism? On the basis of Article 97, and with regard to Article 157, given that we are here today, or that you have brought together here today incompatible and that this is about roof laws, or, if you want to say, fundamental laws, both for the state and society, that on 4 December we have received this material, here, so much seems to see the citizens of Serbia, I believe that the vast majority has not been able to read, I want to ask you to approve, or to vote twice the time for discussion under this most important law for each government, for our economy, for farmers, for health care, for all those who are interested, and all in the state of Serbia are interested. So, in addition to these laws, or budgets, not being in parliament for 15 days, which is necessary, according to our Rules of Procedure, you want to group all the laws and then work backwards, in a hurry, we think it is necessary to at least get double time, so that we can adequately cross arguments with both prime minister and ministers and explain to you why this budget proposal is the worst budget proposal that has come to this Parliament in the last two decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-08-0.u40896	MP, I didn't open a search, so I can't put it to the vote right now. So we can't vote now. Here, I'll put it to the vote tomorrow, as soon as I open the search. (Dear Sutanovac, from the places: good, thank you.) So, I took into account that you suggested it, and I'll put it to the vote tomorrow, right after the search opens. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she was prevented from attending the session of Natasa Vukkovic today. We continue to work and move on to a common principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 12 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today's session is being attended by all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as their co-workers from the Ministry of Finance, Justice, Construction, Transport, Infrastructure, Ministry of Agriculture, Environmental Protection, Ministry of Culture and Information, and has been particularly invited by the mayor of Belgrade to attend this session. Representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MP Dragan Sutanovac, proposed that the time of debate for... Hello, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on. So, a representative of the Democratic Party MP, MP Dragan Sutanovac, suggested that the time of debate for parliamentary groups be 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 12, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 138 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled Single Search on: Proposal for a decision to give consent in the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2015, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Act amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2015, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Act amending the National Employment Service for 2015, Proposal for a decision on amending the Financial Fund for the Republic of health insurance for 2015, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for 2015, Proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the 2016, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for the European Social Insurance Fund for the year 2016, with a proposal for a proposal for the European Fund for the European Social Fund for the financial year 2016. Let's wait for the finance minister. Does one of the representatives of the motionor, or the finance minister, want a word? The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
