ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if most of the total number is present at the session. Please, to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., to insert your identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 135 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Here you go. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38201	Thank you, President. I ask my question to the Ministry of Agriculture, and it refers to the need for agricultural inspectors in areas where they are not present, and they are foreseen by the law. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture-- is there any indication that agricultural inspectors in the surrounding areas are employed? If this is predicted, and according to the law should have them in every district, whether these jobs will be carried out by a republican agricultural inspector at the district level or will be brought down to the level of local self-government, as we know that all local self-governments have environmental inspectors, there are communal etc. building inspectors? In 2006, the Law on Agricultural Land, which established the obligation to adopt an annual programme for the protection of agricultural land and land, adopted by a local self-government unit and before the entry into force of that law, was used without compensation, since there was no legal basis for the lease. I know for a fact that the Western-Baba County, from which I come, has no agricultural inspector at all. They have it in Vojvodina only South-Baths, South-Banatian and North-Banatian County. For example, the State Land Office opened in Subotica, but they don't have an inspector. The Western-Baba district covers a agricultural inspection from Novi Sad, i.e. an inspector who is responsible for South-Baba County. Because of the large amount of work that has been inspected in South-Baba County is waiting for the agricultural inspector for a month, two days, because simply one inspector is not coming to do two districts. It should not only be in the center of the district but also in every local self-government, especially in Vojvodina, that there is an inspector who will control how the state land is handled, because in the case of the Western-Baba County, there remains unprocessed areas, they are not quoted or usurped by the N.N. person who uses the state land and does not participate in the public competition process, and therefore does not pay the lease, which of course loses too much funds. Also, no one controls the establishment of the region itself, and that's what agricultural inspectors should do because it happens that tenants in three years in a row meet sugar tail, destroying the structure of the land. Sugar tail can be grown on the same plot after four years. So you don't respect the suborder. That may not be said to the patrons, and the tenant should host it and use agrotechnical principles. Honor the exceptions. If there is no agricultural inspector, there is no control in situations where the tenant sublets the land, which, of course, is illegal. A number of problems in the field are related to agricultural land, and it is natural that if there are inspectors of all profiles, there is also agricultural land. This is in the interest of both the state and the tenant himself who could, for example, have the grounds to ask the inspector agriculturals at his place, so that the agricultural inspector would take him to the property cadastre, not if he was already taking that lease, and besides paying the rent he must, since he has no agricultural inspector to pay the geometer to carry out the diameter of the agricultural land, i.e. to appoint him amongst, as the Commission for the granting of a state country is not obliged to introduce the tenant into possession. In the Ministry of Agriculture, there is a Department of Agricultural Inspectorate, which is currently employed by only 17 agricultural land inspectors. That's where I think of the whole region of Serbia. For example, the agricultural land inspector has the City of Belgrade, and Vojvodina, we know how much agricultural land and state land he rents, there are only three in only three districts. So I ask the Ministry to answer my question – will it follow the law, will all the districts get agricultural inspectors as soon as possible, will they be in the jurisdiction of the Republic or will they belong to local self-governments, as other inspectors do, I mean construction, municipal, etc.?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38202	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38203	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to ask Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected citizens of Nis, more than once in the work and sessions of this Assembly, I asked Mrs. Mihajlović – when and will the railway line from the city centre, from the centre of Nis be moved? So far I have not received an adequate answer, an exact answer, and I will use these few minutes and abuse your attention to ask the same question again with the hope that Ms. Minister will answer this time so that we can tell the citizens of Nis that the railroad will be moved from the city center or will stay where it is now on the same track, except that it will be electrocuted? What's this about? In 2010, the city's leadership, with the help of the Republic Government, entered into a credit arrangement with the World Bank in order to enter into the procedure of moving the railway where the route is intended to go. That's not to explain much to you, part of the stripe and then according to the Sitician ravine. In 2010, in order not to be wrong, for a million and a half euros of nine million, how much credit arrangement was agreed with the World Bank, was given for a feasibility study. The city completed a general urban plan where it predicted a future route. The current route is intended for light rail vehicles to go, i.e. Some tram, so as not to destroy what was done in the city, so that it could serve the citizens, that that part of the city has some kind of transport, extra, other than bus traffic. So, a general urban plan has been done, a detailed regulation plan of that part has been made, which is very important, as a basic plan document, so that it can go in the further process of realising the shift of the track and what is very important is done – complete geodetic recording of the track. That's what the City Building Directorate was doing, so that part was done. What should have been done was to do a general project, to do an idea project and a major project. That was foreseen with the nine million euros. From 2012 to today, not a word, not a word about moving the railroad. My question – how long has it been with the realisation of the credit arrangement and are these projects that were to be financed done or done or when they would be done? The second question -- when and was the expropriation that was done between 2010 and 2012, so there was one small part left, I think, of some 3.3.5 kilometers that you were supposed to end up expropriating the future route? The most important question to the Minister – when will the railway be moved from the centre of the town of Nis? Please let me have the exact answer. If not, is it true that it intends to temporarily electrify the track along the current route that goes through the city? What is very important is that the MPs of the Republic Assembly, as well as Madam Minister, hear that the City Assembly voted unanimously on a couple of occasions, and the position and opposition, and voted and voted to remove it from the city. This is the unique position of the city of Nisa, not the position of the parties that are in power at the moment or that have been in power in previous mandates, that is the position of all council members of the City Assembly in all mandates, until the day of today, and therefore I ask you, Madam Minister, to decedify us within the prescribed legal deadline, to answer whether the railway from the city centre will be moved or you plan to electrify it, as you say, i.e. as heard, temporary electrification of existing route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38204	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38205	Thank you, Madam President. The first question concerns Minister Verbic. Minister Verbic is asked a question about the amendment and addition of the permit for teachers, educators and professional associates who do not regulate a major problem that exists, which is that educators who work, for example, five or ten years in kindergartens must be trainees in order to pass a professional licence exam. However, as is happening in Serbia, in some other cases, for example, teachers do not consider it, which after one year of experience can pass a professional licence exam. So is this about discrimination and what will Minister Verbic do to change this and, if nothing else, to level the practice that exists with the regulations that exist in this country, so that we don't have a situation of being an intern in this country after five or ten years? The second question concerns Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Since we expect and look forward to the so-called. The competent state authorities begin to do their work on Mr. Sinisha Mali's activities, the mayor of Belgrade, my question concerns the prime minister – will he allow Mr. Sinisha Mali to continue to be mayor as the president of the largest ruling party, if there is a reasonable doubt, supported by evidence, by documentation published by the Krik portal, which is that he has adopted through his father a state-owned country, that he has bought apartments in Bulgaria for an offshore company and whether anyone in the government knows who the people for whom Mr. Sinisha Mali bought apartments, who are those companies, who are behind them, what capital and is it possible to run the capital of Mr. Sinishi Mali after such difficult evidence that he is burdened with? It doesn't seem possible to us, and we think he should be removed immediately or resign. The next question concerns the minister of justice, since I have no one else to ask in this country – how is it possible that the Supreme Court in Belgrade is rescheduling the punishment for a certain Christian Golubovic, who is in the TV programme "Farma", which is shown on a television nearby regime, when it has already been postponed twice for three months? Otherwise, he was sentenced to eight years in prison for trafficking in heroin and illicit weapons. Why is this happening in Serbia, who is responsible and responsible for this while at the same time preying on the people with a debt of 3,000 dinars? The question for Mr. Vulin, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs – is he familiar with the situation in Kosovo Kamenica and Ranilugu where the head of the SNS municipal board, which is there in the minority, because it is 150% of the socialist movement, those who decide everything, has a reception at the same time, is called Dr. Djordje Andrejevic, a dentist at the Health Centre in Gjilan, 150% of the salary of 100,000 dinars, as a member of the municipal council in Kosovo Kamenica 30-40 thousand dinars, up to two months ago the director of the centre, so he was replaced from the ministry, and yet he was employed and worked in the so-called town. Kosovo institutions for what does another 700 euros as a dentist and plus all that is the head of family medicine, also in front of Pristina authorities? Did you, Mr. Vulin, mind setting up a man and planning to set up a man Vasic Zvonimir, who is at the same time a man on the payroll in the Kosovo municipality, for which he gets a salary of 700 euros, and is the head of a man named Dejan, chairman of the Health Center Management Board, who now needs to be his director, to replace him in the Serbian social work sector? This is the parallelism that exists in Kosovo -- one works in Kosovo institutions, one in ours, but both receive three or four salaries at the same time. These are questions concerning what is current, and I would certainly like to ask Minister Sertic – what about the bankruptcy companies, which have been sold, has either been sold in the process that was launched, how many workers received the receipts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38206	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38207	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not spend the time of the MP's group scheduled for parliamentary questions on what the previous speaker said that he would, in all likelihood, soon become an independent MP, so he would be able to socialise with the other independent MPs, but I support him in one part – and we expect, as he said earlier, that the competent authorities are investigating all the affairs, primarily on the affairs surrounding "Vojvodina Development Bank", about the abuse affair when building homes for the disabled children and all other affairs that are rocking the AP Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic. When it comes to the mayor, I will just repeat what the prime minister said, given that he was asked the question – if it is determined, there was a very clear and loud one, it will bear certain consequences, but as we talk about the situation in Belgrade and the mayor, I will remind you that the situation is such that we inherited a historic debt of 22% of GDP and we managed to cut that debt by half. I think the previous speaker is the last person who needs to potentiate the subject. My question today, Madam President, is addressed to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, and why? Because the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government performs the tasks of state administration relating to the system of local self-government and territorial autonomy, guidance and support to local self-government units in ensuring the legality and efficiency of work. So, in particular, is the Statute of Vracar City Municipality being violated by Vračar City Municipality as a state body organising party stands with day-to-day political topics, which serve exclusively to promote a single party, and this is the Democratic Party, as well as to criticise the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Madam Chairman, on several occasions I have read the Statute of Vračar City Municipality and have not been able to find any statutes allowing such activities. To be clear, I'm not contesting the right to have DS organise stands, events, public gatherings, if that's in accordance with the law, that's their right. I also do not dispute that these meetings are organised in the City Hall of Vračar, because this hall serves for these purposes among other things, but I argue that the municipal apparatus is being misused, therefore, all the resources of a municipality that is the municipality of all citizens, for daily political purposes, and with the aim of promoting DS. The Democratic Party, unfortunately, is still ruling, or is ruling the Vrakar municipality. Even though it's very short, maybe a few months of everything. In addition to what I'm saying, I'm going to show you that the Vračar municipality organised a stands with a very complex title, which is "Life and Death of Institutions". I don't want to comment on such an epochal title. The chairman of the DS Municipal Committee on Vrakar, Bogdan Tatic, called on social networks like the party's stands. In addition, we have here a document from Twitter, where Bogdan Tatic, as the chairman of the municipal board, says – we continue, proudly, because on Vračar we speak freely, without censorship and about DS. So the president of the return Democrats calls for a stand organised by Vračar City Municipality as a state body to discuss DS. Classic abuse. If it's not abuse, I don't know what abuse is. Not to mention the expenses and the posters and the notices and all the other expenses incurred by that occasion. I'm asking who's going to be responsible for that? Who will be responsible for the costs incurred by the citizens of Vrachar? And we, as the advances of Vračar, have so far organized stands, countlessly many stands in these seven years, but it has never cost a single dinar to the citizens of Vračar and these were stands with very significant topics. These were the stands very visited, but we never burdened the citizens of Vrachar. We've never abused the resources of a city council. Here and now, for the other day, so, on November 11th, in a large Belgrade Drama Theatre hall, we will organise a magnificent stands, one really big and quality conversation with the citizens of Vračar on all major topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38208	Thank you, MP. Thank you. Before we continue my work, allow me to welcome the students of the first year of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade, who are now following a part of today's session at the grand hall gallery. Thank you. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Natasa Vukkovic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, it is necessary for the Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, as well as proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Ivan Jovanovic suggested that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, no one, abstentioned - one, voted 147 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Lasslo Varga proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Lasslo Varga proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic suggested that, after an emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 30 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I, in September 2014, have, gentlemen, proposed to the MPs in this assembly of the National Assembly that we discuss the proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education. However, it is a special honor for me to say here, that in the presence of students and students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, who practice in their actions the contents of the rules on academic integrity, I can try to convince the MPs to finally open a debate on one of the most important principles in the system of higher education in Serbia, which is not part of the Law on Higher Education, and whose adoption, the respected presidents of the National Assembly, would be an adequate response to the flood of plagiarisms that we are particularly facing in the last year and a half, respected Members of the People's Parliaments. We believe it is essential to stress the importance of the principle of academic integrity, because the flood of plagiarism is one blow to the academic integrity of all members of the academic community and the impact on the functioning of our institutions. I remind the MPs here that academic honesty concerns the independent production of written papers and strict respect for other people's copyrights. I am now asking each MP and MP individually, so that he may feel for example. one student, not just the Faculty of Political Sciences, but any university, any university in our country, in a situation where he knows that the rules on academic integrity apply to students and students, but not to those who have taken over the most significant public positions, respected presidents, who are suspected of plagiarizing parts or in whole, for example. your doctoral dissertation? I now appeal both to the conscience and to the morals of the MPs in all political parties that, even today when students are present here who are subject to the rules of the Academia Law to vote on the agenda of this session, the debate on our additions to the Law on Higher Education, which provides that academic integrity, as one of the greatest principles and formally becomes part of our Law on Higher Education, is respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38210	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: - for the vote - 19, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The ambassador's not here. I conclude the vote: - for the vote - 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 141 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korać suggested that the agenda of the session be supplemented by the points – draft law on the proposed law. She's not here. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: - for the vote - 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: - for the vote - 12, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38211	Half a year ago, we gave the bill, and it's part of our promise to the minister responsible for this area, because she said herself that the law that currently defines the area of construction is not good and that it is necessary to give a new modern solution. We did so primarily relying on the 2003 Construction Act, which in general considered the profession was an excellent law with one flaw. The government that inherited the government that brought in the congregation majority that passed the law in 2003 did not implement it, so it remained in bad memory. What are the consequences? Millions of square meters of illegal space, illegal construction. We are still in the uninvited 139th place in the world after the construction permits are issued, regardless of the praises about the progress on the "Ding Business" list, 139th place in the world. That means there's only a country behind us where there's no construction, where they're still living in the courtrooms and in the caves. Twenty-two days is required in Serbia to obtain a building permit. The fairy tale of it being an electronic is a completely fictitious thing. Twenty-two days, it says in the "Ding Business" list. This is the information to which the current government is called. What else is going on with that? Irregular construction continues and we currently have the site of the largest lawless construction in mankind's history, which is "Belgrade on Water". The pyramids in Egypt when they were made had more documentation needed for their construction than “Belgrade on Water. ” The very beginning of the works was such that it was not known who performed the works, even those who laid the cornerstone, i.e. according to the old Serbian custom, the time capsule was what the skillfully, the little malts they managed to prepare, put in a hole in the aces, not shovels. At least someone could've told them that it wasn't done in such a way as to make the bats and shovels possible to lay a rock foundation. Generally, we need to change this law to make us feel better, it's not the interest of any party individually, it's the interest of the entire state. I ask you to put this bill on the agenda so that we can give the competent minister and the government a chance to make a statement about our proposal which we are convinced is very good and has already been commended by the expert public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38212	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: - for the vote - 14, v - one, with abstention - did not vote 141 of the 156 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. He's not here. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: - for the vote - 9, against - no one with abstentions - voted 147 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda of this session be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: - for the vote - 11 against - no one, with abstentions, voted 145, out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the items – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38213	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, for the eighth time, I propose to the National Assembly to accept my proposal to amend the agenda and participate in today's debate – Proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act and Article 41. Health insurance law relating to dental health care. Namely, the member says that they have the right to repair their teeth and to treat their mouths through means, have insurance companies up to 18 years old, schoolboys and students up to 26 years old and over 65 years old. This is a total of about two and a half million RFZO insurance companies other four and a half million workers, those who essentially pay contributions, which fill the RFZO, part of their profits they do not have the right to repair their teeth through RFZO funds. What is very important for this member to change does not need to increase the number of employees in institutions that have signed a contract with the RFZO. So I've got quite a number of recognizable dentists and dentists and technicians. What is needed is only the means to buy dental material to provide these services to our insurance companies, the RFZO insurance companies. That's an annual figure of up to 250 million. What is very important in the position of health insurance, which is dental health care in RFZO, is there are 350 million unallocated in the budget. Please accept my proposal to amend the agenda so that today we can discuss this point, the amendment of this law, and to adopt the general satisfaction of Serbian citizens living in increasingly difficult conditions, the steam is getting smaller and the dental services they need they have to pay with private dentists. This is how we charge home budgets, and in the end, it's their money. What is very important, and I want to tell you that support for this initiative has also been given by the Association of Volunteers of the Blood of Serbia. The support was signed by the chairman of the main board, Professor Radomir Tosic. I ask you colleagues to consider and support with your voice the amendment of the Health Insurance Act and allow citizens of Serbia to fix their teeth and mouth diseases through the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38214	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 138 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blaža Bradić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38215	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens of Serbia, have proposed that I amend the Law on Public Media Services and amend the Information and Media Act. These are two laws that this congregation and the congregation majority adopted just over a year ago. These laws abolished the possibility that local self-government could finance from local public-media services budgets, local, public media services. What is important and what we have done wrong, in my opinion, I am deeply convinced of that, for the citizens of Serbia living under Sava and Danube, that is inequality in rights and obligations. Under the law, all Serbian citizens are under the obligation to pay the subscription that has been reformed by this law and become a fee for TV subscription, and the right to use this public media service, most of them have citizens of Vojvodina, citizens of Belgrade, while citizens under Sava and Danube are forced to have information of importance for their local communities over the terms of these two media houses, public-media services, RTS, TV. I proposed amending the law to introduce a third public-media service, it is a radio-television within Serbia, which will have two television and three radio programmes, so that citizens under Sava and Danube except for the obligation to pay TV subscription have the possibility to inform through these regional public services about what is very important for the functioning of local communities, which was covered by the local public-media services that we have abolished by this law, i.e. prevent local communities from still funding them. Secondly, the very important thing is that national minorities in Belgrade and the AP Vojvodina have the opportunity to use these public-media services for their cultural programmes and all that the law allows them, while national minorities under Sava and Danube do not have that option, i.e. have the possibility in the law to form public-media services in minority language, which I don't think is right, because if we all pay and charge the budget of public-media services, then we should all have the same opportunities. With your vote, please accept the proposal to amend the agenda so that we can allow the citizens of Serbia to have the same rights in addition to the same obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38216	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 141 out of the 156 MPs, for – 15 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38217	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll pick up where I left off. This is another law regarding the same matter I was just talking about. The question is – how will the public-media service be financed. In a conversation with colleagues, it was said that there was not enough money for RTS, let alone for radio-television within Serbia, so, gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, just as RS TV is financed, so our dear friends from Vojvodina when they pay a tax of 500 dinars, 70% remains for the financing of RTS, and 30% goes for the financing of RTS. So, according to the same pattern, the radio-television of Serbia would also be funded, so that 70% of the subscriptions paid by our citizens under Sava and Danube would remain for financing Serbia's narrows, and 30% would go to finance RTS, as the central public-media service of the Republic of Serbia. This would help your fellow citizens to have information that is very important to them and it is nice for us to know what is going on in Belgrade, Vojvodina, but you will agree with me, it is necessary as other information. As the first information is very important what is happening in our environments from which we have come to represent the citizens of Serbia, so I ask you, by your vote, to accept the change of the agenda, so that today we can amend the Law on Public Media Services and provide the citizens of Serbia with the same rights with the same obligations. What is very important is that the citizens of Nis, probably in your local environments, are similar, but the citizens of Nis have, on several occasions, voted unanimously and in opposition that Nis should have a public-media service. I mean, it's not the same as having a public-media service from a subscription, which I've been talking about so far and a public-media service that you'll be projecting from the local budget. South Serbia, Serbia under Sava and Danube, em is poor, em if she wants to have local media services, should pay double. This is not correct and it is not fair, so I ask you to put this point in the agenda with your voice to correct the injustice and to equalise the rights and obligations of all citizens of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38218	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 140 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 May 2015. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have proposed to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I suggested, because this assembly majority did not accept our amendments when in time, before the adoption and vote of this law, we suggested and warned against the legality, on the one hand, the adoption of such a law, and it is against the law for the simple reason that it is first anti-constitutional, because it enters into private property and the integrity of private property, and on the other hand it is in direct contrast to the Expropriation Act which clearly states when expropriation can be done and when private property can be bought for the sake of general interest, and that is when it comes to the construction of roads, railways, highways, schools, kindergartens, health institutions and all that is public interest and what is on the benefit of all Serbian citizens. This time you passed the law in the Republic Assembly where it was given to the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade the opportunity to buy private property that will be given to another private person to build residential and business facilities, which is not a public interest. It is a public interest in building housing, but for social housing. And what's heard from the media, these 300 apartments being built at the location of the "Biograda on Water", everything is, but not a social housing. The other thing, which is very important, is the way of financing, expropriation and communal equipment works of a municipality in Belgrade. This is from the Republic budget, which I think is very bad, which is unacceptable, because we are all firm for the view that new jobs should be opened and that there should be an economy in Serbia and we will invest several hundred million euros in the municipal equipment of one location in one municipality in Belgrade, instead of investing that money in irrigation, because we say that agriculture is something that is the future of Serbia's development due to increased exports, to focus on energy efficiency, where we will start, really run the construction industry. We invest in a part of the city where the construction of 300 apartments started and that structure is one bedroom, two bedroom, three room and four person by little. Excuse me, please, in our midst, here in my Nis, in order for someone to build a residential building, to buy a location, not get it for free, he has to pay utility costs right away, not after 20 years when he's beating up the costs of environmental equipment and the sea...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38220	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38221	... to invest his money.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38222	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – one, with abstention – there is no, 142 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted a proposal to amend the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, and I will remind you, it is the law where we adopted the amendments on 1 August 2014 and then I told you the same thing I will now repeat to you. To remind you, that's when you took your decision and your votes, from the position of social security, i.e. compulsory health insurance, you took down 2%, so now what we all pay out of our salaries is 10.3% for health insurance, and you've increased the position of mandatory pension and disability insurance from 24% to 26%. And then there was the story, if you remember, former Minister Krstic was talking about how great it is, how it's an ideal solution, because there's extra money in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and that money will be more useful if we switch to the pension part, because that's how we charge 300m euros a year for giving the republican pension grant budget received by our pensioners. And that's one of these improvements, what you're saying is that the super republican budget, 300 million euros from health care went to retirement and less is given out of the republican pension budget, so you have that 300 million disbursements. But what was the point? The point was that the story here is supported by all MPs of the congregation's majority that the non-domestic business was done at the Republic Health Insurance Fund and that now the new leadership has it to flower roses and have enough money to meet all needs. I'll remind you of a few things. The 2014 budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund was projected, so at 12%, at 235 billion. The rebalance has been reduced to 215 billion, i.e. to 220 billion to make that budget projection at 215 billion dinars in 2015. What's interesting, if you know, and I believe you know, under Article 22 of this law, is funding by the Republic budget of all those categories that have no other basis for funding for the Republic Health Insurance Fund, that in Roma, they are socially endangered, etc. And it's supposed to be 12 billion or 120 euros on the annual level. What's happening now is by reducing the payment of contributions, and that's why I'm asking to change this way of paying the contributions is that you have a 4.5 billion deficit in the republican budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38224	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 141 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a law on freedom of fear, submitted to the National Assembly by a parliamentary group of 19 MPs on 20 November 2014. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38225	Mr. Chairman, several times, surely six, seven times, I have asked the Assembly and distinguished colleagues to put the bill of freedom from fear on the agenda, each time you refused. We believe that this law protects and implements the Constitution guaranteeing the rights of Serbian citizens and prevents abuses in the exercise of power, which the executive authorities are implementing in the Republic of Serbia. Any conduct by the public authority of the Republic of Serbia that has the character of intimidation or contains a threat that forces citizens to act against their will or by giving up their guaranteed rights to do something or does not make it a violation of the right to freedom and to live without fear and punish themselves under the law. There is also a member of the Criminal Code, which punishes these acts by the state authorities. Every government in the last 70 years has conducted certain acts that have caused fear or abstention of citizens from using certain rights or preventing citizens from using certain rights, but in recent history, I do not think it is noticeable that something like this is done by the current executive authority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No people have been discovered who have beaten political opponents in either Vojvodina or Mionica, or elsewhere, although it is known, although criminal charges have been filed, even though people have been identified. Who beat Mr. Bobic in Verbas? We ask the same question a hundred times, we know the answer, we notify the authorities, nothing happens. What is it to cause fear if it isn't to cause fear of being sent to the polls, to arrest political opponents based on statements, which now the state has to pay compensation because no one, no one, has been convicted of those great people you arrested, just because they think differently from you? What is the cause of fear if it's not the cause of fear that threatens to quit? Nineteen thousand workers will be fired from the public sector, six thousand from the Railways, over 15,000 from the so-called. Companies in restructuring, i.e. companies in bankruptcy. Isn't that fear for existence and for life? That's what your authority does. You cause fear, you cause anxiety, a sense of discomfort among Serbian citizens, general uncertainty. You're jeopardizing the rule of law. Political opponents are your enemies. Whoever thinks differently from you, he's a traitor to Serbia, he's the target of the tabloid under your control. That's what you do. Please put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38226	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 138 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a parliamentary group of 16 MPs of the DS Group on 12 October 2015. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38227	Mr. Chairman, we have submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which reads – if a motor vehicle driver or other means of transport these means of transport causes a car accident and hurts a person who leaves without help and due to not providing assistance to the death or permanent disability of a injured person, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of five to 20 years. So, the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which we propose, tightens the criminal policy in a particular case which is our practice and reality and what was happening recently in Serbia, such as the "Cantrimen" case, that a man commits a car accident, mildly said, to hit a man with a car, and then escape and show him no help. Now criminal policy predicts a very, very mild punishment for such a thing. If you would agree to put this on the agenda, i.e. It will be put on, and to vote for it, we today, when a fine is debated for a man who is the main actor of the Cantrimen case and who, after killing a man in Belgrade, fled to China and got four and a half years from now, and in two years from now, he will be out of prison. It's a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. You now have the opportunity to vote that cases like this are not repeated, to limit the arbitration of our courts that lightly give low sentences or probations for a criminal offence when no assistance is provided, when a person is injured in a car accident or accident. Please don't say later that the courts are independent and do their job and floscule type – we have nothing to comment on. There's something to comment on. A man lost his life, and a team from the country has escaped, and this one has fled all the way to China and will now be out of prison in two years. That's Serbia's shame. The citizens are watching you, they've chosen you. Support this proposal, let's disable these cases in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38228	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted Mr Stefanovic's proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, for the 17th time, I propose the same amendment to the law, and I suggest that in the list of crimes that do not go out of date, the crime of stealing babies. Since I have no intention of asking you to accept the bill for the 17th time, and I believe that the fact that you have already rejected the personal shame of any MP who does not vote for this bill and that everyone's name should be read, I will continue where I left off last time, and I will continue to ask the MPs of the SNS why they do not want to support this bill. I stopped last time with MP Zarko Bogatinović, so the next on the list is MP Bojanić Zoran, whom I am asking at this time – why does he not want to include in crimes that do not go out of date the crime of stealing babies? Why does MP Cvetanović Milorad not want to be included in crimes that do not go out of date in the act of stealing babies? Why does MP Dimitri Vladica not want to be included in crimes that do not go out of date in the act of stealing babies? Why doesn't MP Drecun Milovan want to be involved in crimes that don't go out of date in the act of stealing babies? Why does the MP Djokovic Mirjana not want to include the crime of stealing babies in crimes that do not go out of date? Why does the MP Djukanovic Vladimir not want to include in crimes that do not go out of date the crime of stealing babies? Why does MP Đurica Milan not want to be included in crimes that do not go out of date in the act of stealing babies? Why does MP Djurisic Zhivan not want to be included in crimes that do not go out of date in the act of stealing babies? Why does the MP Đurović Aleksandra not want to be included in crimes that do not go out of date in the act of stealing babies? Why does National MP Filipovic Ana not want to include the crime of stealing babies in crimes that do not go out of date? Why does the MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric, not want to include in crimes that do not go out of date the crime of stealing babies? Why does National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic not want to include the crime of stealing babies in crimes that do not go out of date? Why does the MP, Dr. Slobodan, not want to include the crime of stealing babies in crimes that do not go out of date? Why does the MP Ilic Stosic Biljana not want to include the crime of stealing babies in crimes that do not go out of date? Which is why MP Isailovic Dr Obrad does not want to be in criminal acts... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38230	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 132 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 16 MPs of the Democratic Party Group on 12 October 2015. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38231	Our Bill of Amendments of the Law on Arms and Ammunitions has a very simple and sound and acceptable idea, which is to be included in the law to be included in the procedure for granting approval with a request for the authorisation of the supply of weapons, the applicant is required to provide medical assurance of the psychophysical ability to possess and handle firearms that are not older than 30 days of age and, then, every owner of the weapon is required to contribute to the MAP, the organisational unit, in a municipality whose territory has its residence no later than one year from the date of entry of this law, and every five years thereafter. The second member is as a result and refers to an armed list, or authorisation to hold arms. The reasons for these changes and additions at first sight should be quite logical to everyone, regardless of the truth that they don't kill guns, but they kill people, but if they have guns in the hands of people we're not sure are stable enough to use weapons. Less is said here about hunting weapons, because hunters are people who care and who know why they have guns in their possession, than they are about buying, keeping, holding, gun licenses. Guns don't kill animals, they kill people. As not killing weapons, but killing people, then we should bear the social responsibility, to make sure that the MUP has information about the priphistic stability, ability and willingness of the holder, the holder and those who use the gun as a firearm that it will not harm the environment or itself. This is meant for professionals and they have long gone through regular checks, but it is not meant for a society where there are very many illegal weapons and this MUP has had excellent actions that have requested the handover of weapons in a society that is warlike, post-conflict, traumatic and necessary to be heard about this proposal by the Assembly after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38232	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 132 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors in order to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the helicopter accident in which the seven persons, who were submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 16 MPs of the DS Group on 9 April 2015. That the MP Gordana Komic wants a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38233	Thank you. We believe that the education of the Committee of Auditors under the rules of parliamentary work with one representative from each parliamentary group is necessary to obtain important answers and information that are missing after seven months of the 13 March tragedy, in which seven people and the public and families of the victims and institutions died, both in the report by the Military Commission and in the second. Namely, two questions remain without an answer, regardless of what I have asked them as MPs and defence minister. The first question is, on the basis of which and on whose information did the Defense Minister bring an oral order in violation of protocol and subordination to launch a rescue helicopter mission? This is a key issue and the fact that the Serbia Army Disciplinary Court has punished two generals with its punishment, shows only one message to all of us families of the victims and the public of Serbia, it is that the minister protects the Prime Minister, and that Serbian Army generals cannot be protected by the rule of law. And the answer to the question of where he got the information from, from whom he got it, and on what basis he gave the oral order is the key to responsibility and the security that these tragedies will never happen to us again. Another response missing in both reports and missing to know why the rescue mission ended in a helicopter crash and the death of seven people is who changed the flight plan when the aircraft is already on its way to Belgrade? How was that flight plan changed? How did that happen? No other report answers that question. The Minister of Arrogance, who unfortunately became routine in our public, refuses to answer that question, and I refer to my parliamentary question to the D.A.'s office. So many mockings to the rule of law that we show by refusing to form this Survey Committee and so many mockings of the public expressed by the minister is so much of an accident, not only for families who have lost their loved ones, but for all of us who think that personal responsibility is crucial to the regulation of our common society and that without personal responsibility in Serbia will not be good for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38234	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 18 votes against – 2 abstentions – no, 129 of the total of 149 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Economic Planning, the way pensions were paid, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 16 MPs of the DS parliamentary group, on 21 September 2015. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38235	We suggest that the Pension Reduction Act brought by the SNS and its coalition partners be put out of effect. In the 1990s, we saw how and how this state government in Serbia treated pensioners. In 2000, we found a robbed PIO fund and the DS was then returning the retired pensions of Serbian pensioners. Obviously, it won't be the only time DS is determined to correct this injustice. We propose a law to put out of force your Pension Reduction Act that affects the lives of those who have earned their entire working life fairly and fought fair for their pensions. The SNS has made it impossible for them to obtain the right. She took away some of the property that belonged to them and thus the gentlemen broke the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The same relationship from the 1990s that had a red-and-black coalition with Serbian citizens and with pensioners, the same relationship continues to be seen today. He doesn't really make any difference. The Serbian pensioner's union together with the DS also launched a petition action to put the harmful law out of force. The DS has collected 40,000 signatures on the stands across Serbia, the Serbian Pensioners' Union continues the fight with our full support. When there's no law in the state, and most of course don't understand it, then the state dies slowly. When there is no democracy, Serbia dies. Without democracy, Serbia cannot survive. That's the way it was in the '90s. That's how it is today. When there's no democracy, someone can get the right to take away from you, when there's no democracy, someone can take away something you've earned and created your whole life. When there is no democracy, institutions do not function in Serbia and so is the Constitutional Court, which, unlike other countries across Europe in Serbia, assessed only the legitimacy of the government, but not the constitutionality of the law that most in this House passed. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary to put the pension reduction law out of force as soon as possible, because we think that this is how it threatens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38236	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the vote was 16 against – no one with abstention – has voted 131 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38237	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, submits the Turnover Movement for the third time in a row to the National Assembly a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, the Anti-Monopolical Law or the Law against Banking Monopolies. For the third time, dear fellow Members of Parliament, you have the opportunity to support the motion for a Turnover Movement, but also the Efficient Association in which we propose only one, to pass a law that protects citizens from green contracts. I'm asking you on behalf of the Turnover Movement and on behalf of the Effective Are you against green contracts? I ask you, in the name of the Turnover, are you against the immoral behaviour of the banks that in Serbia skin the citizens of Serbia? Nowhere like in Serbia, banks can't behave. I ask you in the name of the Turnover are you against the enormous interest, the biggest that banks charge in the world, interest that cannot cover the low wages that Serbian citizens have? I'm asking you, are you against an unequal position in relation to a client-bank? Are you fellow MPs against the fact that financial service users' associations can also participate in the creation of general conditions that depend on their fate and position in front of the bank? Are you opposed to Serbian citizens being victims of financial monopolys, which unfortunately supports the Serbian government. I suggest that you vote past party disciplines, to support this law, to support the anti-monopol law, to also get Serbia into order of countries that protect their citizens, not banks that are insatiable in their financial desires, in a desire to make citizens sick, and in a desire to make money from Serbia. It is the current situation in Serbia. We suggest you pass this anti-monopol code.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38238	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38239	I've got seven more seconds. To accept that you accept this anti-monopol code and to support the citizens instead of the parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38240	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132 of the total of 144 MPs present. National MP Aleksandar Senic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 138 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of the sitting be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on property taxes. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Interim Arrangement Act and the way in which pensions are paid. Do you want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38241	Thank you, Chairman. A year ago, this assembly passed the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions were paid. Practically, the law reduced the acquired and guaranteed pensions constitution to a number of Serbian citizens of 10, 15, 20 in some cases and more than 25%. A few months back, our parliamentary group is trying to comply with the Rules of Procedure on the agenda of the session to put the law on ending the validity of this law. Our main motive was to consider that listening to the prime minister's statements, the finance minister and other officials of the state had also come under conditions to stop the law. Since the beginning of the year, we have heard that the budget is in fantastic condition, that it has never been better, and we believe that the reasons for the existence of such a law have ceased. Unfortunately, the government responded to our initiative and gave the opinion that this law was not adopted and, among other things, it said – regarding the above, we point out that the basic reason that defined the adoption of the law is still justified, and this is the need to ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system, and thus the sustainability of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the country's macroeconomic stability. Our question is, what is the truth here? Is it true what the government wrote on October 8th this year that there are still problems in the budget and in the country's finances or is true what almost every day comes to us by prime ministers and pro-government media, which is that the situation is never better, that it is so good that even the IMF has approved a huge increase in pensions. I don't see how you can talk about an increase. It can only be said that those who were wrongly deprived and reduced pensions a year ago are now returned to the level at which she was a year ago and that then as foreseen by the Retirement System Act, she increases each year by a certain percentage. Who do you trust? Are we going to have a debate here in this country or will the prime minister decide what he wants, so he can say that pensions can increase, I repeat again, I don't know what kind of increase it is anymore, but that he doesn't? That is why I call on you to vote to put this bill on the agenda, to lead the debate here in parliament, and to see the state of the truly Serbian finances and what are the best measures to cure them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38242	Time. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the proposal on additions to the Property Tax Act. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38243	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens, especially those citizens who haven't had a dream in years because they fear their children will be left without a roof over their heads. So 50,000 children are in daily danger, not in a few years, but in a few days and months to lose their roof over their heads because of bank monopolys, because of the fact that the state protects banks only in Serbia. I remind you that the laws that would protect citizens from banking monopolys have been passed by both Poland and Hungary and Montenegro and Croatia, and is now in the process in Bosnia. Along with the "Effectiva" Society, the Turnover Movement proposed a law very similar to the laws in those countries by which these citizens require nothing more than to pay interest and repay credit, but not to pay four times as much as they took the funds. Only the Serbian government, only Prime Minister Vukic does not want to agree to this. I welcome last time two votes for this law that came from the bench position. I hope you all vote today to put this law on the agenda. Today, at 24 hours, the deadline Prime Minister Vukic gave himself is that he will solve this problem. The prime minister tasked Mr Vujovic to find a solution that he did not find until today, not because he could not find that solution, but because both Prime Minister Vujčić and Mr Vujovic are protecting bank monopolies, protecting banks and not thinking of protecting 100,000 citizens, among them 50,000 children who will be left without a roof over their heads. I therefore call upon you, dear colleagues, to support the motion of the Turnover Movement and the Effective Association, which, along the way, has raised 20,000 signatures for the petition to adopt this law and which will be forced to seek their rights in another legal way unless you support the adoption of this law. We're the only country in the world that hasn't protected the clients of banks who act in a way that takes what doesn't belong to them. Support the law that submitted the Turnover Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38244	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. . I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 139 of the total of 149 MPs present. National MP Branko Karavidic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the draft session on the amendment of the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 September 2015. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, for the third time, I propose that amendments to the Public Information Act and the media be included in the agenda. Namely, the Law on Public Information and the media has been in force since 13 August 2014 and its adoption under a set of media laws has been announced as a major reform shift. The Anti-Corruption Council published a report in February 2015 on the ownership structure and control of the media in Serbia. Although this report deals with the situation in the media regarding ownership structure and control in the period preceding the adoption of media laws, the Council still looked back on its report and on a solution in the new law, whose amendment we propose. On the Council's opinion, there are also in practice shareholders who own less than 5% of the shares in the issuer's ownership structure, and who exercise effective control over editorial policy, as well as sources of funding for multiple media at the same time. Article 1 of the draft of these amendments proposes to amend Article 39 paragraph 8 by providing that all owners, direct and indirect, regardless of the size of the share in the issuer’s founding capital, are to be entered in the media register, as opposed to the solutions provided for to date, only data on owners whose share exceeds 5%. The proposed amendment of the Law on Public Information and Media will ensure transparency of the issuer's ownership structure, i.e. media, which will help restore citizens' trust in the media, while at the same time reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media or through the media. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, which is certainly the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality and availability of legal persons. The government refused, or proposed to the Assembly to reject our proposal by saying that Article 99 of the existing law provides sufficient information on whether there is a proposed impact on editorial policy in some media. Then, the government says media ownership data is public and that it must be known to the owner of a legal person who is a media publisher, which, of course, is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38246	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a LAW ON CONTRACTION OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38247	Thank you, Chairman, for a little more patience. The draft law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act proposed a little less than two months ago. In the meantime, we held here a debate on amendments and additions to the value added tax proposed by the government. That's when you spoke, in the context of this debate, and this proposal of ours. The essence of the proposal is very simple, which is that baby food is taxed at a special rate of 10% added tax instead of the current 20%. At that time, the minister said he had no objection personally, that such a decision would, in his confidence, only make administration difficult, open up space for certain abuses, and that he is not sure that this would lead to the improvement of the material position of families with small children, in Serbia as well as not to contribute to the reduction of negative growth, which already seems to me to exist in Serbia for 20 years. With our bill when we put it on the agenda, of course, we didn't think that a measure like this could solve this big problem in itself, perhaps the biggest problem, because we can't talk about Serbia in the future if there's no citizens of Serbia and there's something that needs to be done today, so that in 20, 30 or 50 years we won't be in a situation where nothing can be done anymore. We thought this was one way to open a discussion in parliament about what can be done. In principle, in a debate just over a month ago, when it came to that, all fellow MPs agreed that something should be done, that this was not enough, that this could be just one measure. I ask the question – when will the day come when will we talk about finally having this country do something in a systematic, serious way, to face the problem of reducing Serbia's population year after year? This law is and this measure is only one measure. Of course, it can't, I repeat, resolve, but I think it shows the good will of the state, to show that the state understands the problems of young couples who, for economic reasons, do not decide today to have offspring and that as one countermeasure to all these poor economic measures of the government, which lead to a direct reduction of the standard of living and an increase in poverty, one such measure could mean encouragement and therefore I urge you to put on the agenda a proposal for this law, to discuss it as the beginning of measures for a better life and a better future for Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38248	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – the Proposal for AUTHORITY LAW, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2015. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38249	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law could still be called a law for fair elections. Serbia currently has no conditions for fair elections. Why? Because votes are bought for money, meat products, concentrates, jobs, job fears, etc. There's no room for fair elections, no fair elections, no orderly state. You can look at today's headlines in the newspaper – he doesn't have to go to jail for three months because he's in "Farma". Serbia has left in the past few years millions of people, people cannot find work in Serbia, young people leave the country because the state is run by incompetent people, people who have come to those places, among other things, by buying votes. The motion made by the Turnover Movement to all MPs is to amend the criminal law and introduce new crimes. One of them is: whoever demands by force or threat or forces another to deliver evidence of how he voted, will be punished by a legal penalty, for example, from three months to three years. Is this a problem to accept such an amendment of the criminal law, is the problem of sanctioning who performs the actions or procedures of photography, making videos, marking the ballots, voting in another pen past the one provided by the electoral board, in order to punish the will of the citizens. The Turnover Movement has proposed that these amendments to the Criminal Law be sanctioned not only by perpetrators of the threat to the will of citizens, but also by those who organise a violation of the will of citizens. These are usually local party officials in power, who also organise with the help of certain criminal groups beatings, beatings, intimidation of voters ahead of the elections. In this law, we also propose who, in the area of local self-government in which elections are organised and the referendum is being held, acts violently, affects freedom of run for office, freedom of expression of will to punish itself. So new crimes have been prescribed to ensure that the next elections in Serbia are fair. The Turnaround movement won't admit to the election that's being stolen. He'll be taking part in them, but he won't admit the elections that make the votes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38250	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 12 MPs, against - two, abstention - no one voted 144 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'm taking a break until 12:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38251	Please, since we've had a break, let's re-establish the quorum. Please insert your identification cards. We'll listen to a proposal from Alexander Jerkov to draw out all cards where they're not MPs. I ask the departments to take the cards out of the parliamentary units, whether they are or not in the system, not to speculate. Otherwise, the services should do so regularly, not that MPs must make informal suggestions. You can see it from here. We can see it from the chairman's seat. There's also an DS parliamentary group, so you can start on that side. I guess the emissary was thinking about her club. In the meantime, I can announce that there are 129 MPs, who are also physically present and put in cards, even though we have colleagues who are physically present, who won't insert cards, that the public knows what it is. Therefore, the MP, i.e. myself, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Rules 157(2) and 170, 192 and 193, I proposed that a common principle and uniform search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Application Management under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, as well as a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges first elected to the judicial function and a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court. I don't want a word of explanation. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 147 against – one abstention – there is no vote, five of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 147, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 153 MPs present. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Dn e v n ir e d: 1.Proposal of a law on strong alcoholic beverages; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Application Management with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court; 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Dear Members of Parliament, for your co-ordination with the Members of Parliament, I want you, in accordance with Article 90(2) and Article 101(5). Rules of Procedure, to inform the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, which was suspended on 16 October of this year, will continue today, on 3 November 2015, following the completion of a joint principle and uniform search on the first two points of the fourth session of the Second Regular Session. I also inform you that a day for voting on all points of the agenda of the session will be set. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic and her co-workers at the Ministry. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a law on strong alcoholic beverages and a proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Application Management, with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. Does the representative of the promoter, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38252	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, it is my great pleasure to present another important law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Dear People's MPs, this is our third meeting in the last month, which confirms the intensive legislative activity of our ministry. Just to remind myself that the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection has prepared, from the government's elections to today, and the National Assembly has adopted nine laws and several bilateral and multilateral agreements in the fields of agriculture, water industry, veterinary, plant protection and environmental protection. Today you have before you the proposal for a law on strong alcoholic beverages and a proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Application Management under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. Allow me to start my presentation with a new law in the area of the production of strong alcoholic beverages, which should replace the current 2009 Cancer Act and other alcoholic beverages. A new law on strong alcoholic beverages has been introduced for two important reasons. The first reason is the importance that the production of strong alcoholic beverages, primarily fruit rakija, has for the development of the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, and the second reason is the desire of this government and the ministry to improve the position of our producers, especially when it comes to the fact that the key solutions to the existing law are very restrictive and restrictive for producers and that they have not given the expected effects. It is known that Serbia is a country of extraordinary natural potential – agro-ecological, geographical, climate and other conditions for the production of various kinds of fruits. According to the 2012 agricultural list, over 295 000 agricultural holdings are engaged in fruit production. The total area of fruit plantations in our country is about 169 thousand hectares, with an average production at an annual level of about 1.5 million tonnes of fruit. The leading place in Serbia's fruit growing, both by the number of trees and by the production, takes a plum. About 39.5 million breeding trees are grown at about 78 thousand hectares. Plants of plums account for 46% of the total area of all fruit plantations, and they are our largest raw materials base for processing into alcoholic beverages. Of the total amount of plum produced, which averages 400 to 450 thousand tonnes per year, as much as 75% is used to produce brandy. Our wealth is also our indigenous varieties – "burner", "red ranch", "cranch", "blacks", "dears", "dears", as well as numerous modern high-born varieties, many of which are selected in our scientific institution for fruit growing in Cačka, such as "chachanic gender", "chachanic beauty", "chachanic wounds", "châcan's best", "châcan sugar" and others. The production of brandy in Serbia is very widespread and has a centuries-old tradition. Almost every house in the rural environment has an orchard and fruits are mainly processed into the most commercial fruit processing – brandy. Based on data available to the ministry, registered producers in Serbia produced 22.5 million liters of fruit brandy this year. The largest rakia is produced in the Rasinski and Šumadi County, between 15m and 16m litres annually, which is about 70% of the total production. These are the quantities produced by registered producers. Real production is supposed to be far higher. But a huge number of manufacturers are not registered and their production is not visible in legal flows. Certainly, the main reason is the key provisions of the applicable Law which disqualify a huge number of ours, primarily small producers, who, as the physical faces of their surpluses, produced rakia in no way were legally able to place on the market. In Serbia, Serbia's most popular and most represented is certainly plum brandy, the popular "slave". The most plums are produced in western Serbia, from indigenous varieties such as "burners" and "red ranch", and lately also from "chacan beauty", "cancer births" and others. In eastern Serbia, special rakias of the type of herbivores, naves, mints are dominated, while in Vojvodina, there are growing productions of dunes and caecies, as well as grape raki. In recent years, the production of dunes, pears, pots, and raspberries has increased. Starting from the great potential of the raw materials base and the centuries-old tradition in the production of brandy, we are convinced that it is necessary in a new way to regulate the production sector of strong alcoholic beverages, in order to overcome the perceived shortcomings of the current law and to properly direct our producers to legally exploit the existing capacity and primary fruit production potentials and make their product competitive on the market. The honourable MPs, the reasons for passing this law, besides the two basics that I set at the very beginning, are numerous. I'll just mention some more important ones. One of them is the need for a new law to regulate production, transport and quality in the alcohol sector in a unique way. The reason is the need to improve the competitiveness of domestic producers and reduce unnecessary costs in production, as a necessary condition of a fair match of domestic producers with foreign competition. The particular reason for the adoption of this law is also the need to comply with the provisions of this law with the provisions of the Food Safety Act, which primarily relate to the food sector and also to the strong alcoholic beverages sector, as an integral part of the food sector. The primary objective is to care for the health of the end-user, who, through the application of the provisions of this law, allows the market to have a quality health- sound and safe product. Given that the Republic of Serbia is in the EU accession process and that, in line with the obligations arising from this process, it is working to harmonise its legislation with EU legislation, this law is also a harmonisation of legislation in the strong alcoholic beverages sector in the Republic of Serbia, with the common EU agricultural policy. The adoption of this law in a unique way will regulate not only the production, transport and quality of strong alcoholic beverages but also the categorisation and declaration of the same and the registration process of geographical indications. Therefore, the basic objectives of the proposed law are to reduce the cost of production, increase the competitiveness of domestic producers, improve production and quality, increase exports and increase the contribution of strong alcoholic beverages to the economic and economic development of the Republic of Serbia. To this end, this law proposes lower costs and simplification of rules for the registration of the production of strong alcoholic beverages. It is extremely important to reduce the number of unregistered producers both because of the importance of spreading legal flows and curbing the grey economy, and because of the obligation to monitor the origin and control of the overall production process ranging from basic raw material to the final product. Respect for this principle, as I have already stated, stems from a clear and unequivocal provision and obligation to control food and drink safety. We expect that besides new manufacturers that will find economic interest to register and thus valorize primary fruit production, the interest of registration will be found by the current producers who have not actually been officially. The rules of the applicable law were both rigorous and expensive for a huge number of them, particularly small producers of brandy and other alcoholic beverages in Serbia. Namely, the complicated registration procedure, the expensive equipment that was a condition for registering production, as well as the mandatory presence of technologists throughout the year, have led our producers into an unequal position compared to their colleagues in other European countries. All of this resulted in the number of 2,048 registered producers prior to the 2009 current law being reduced to only 369 producers. It is assumed that this difference relates to producers who could not meet strict requirements and expensive procedures, and that they continued to produce brandy and to produce certain quantities and traffic, but not legally, but somehow in the gray zone. Namely, as you know, so far individuals could not possibly be involved in the marketing of strong alcoholic beverages, which practically meant that individual producers could not in any way sell their surpluses legally. This law allows it. This potential, the basic raw material base located in the natural faces, will be in the future, i.e. By adopting this law, you can legally put into circulation and allow natural persons without complicated procedures, surpluses from your own production to be placed on registered producers of strong alcoholic beverages which will be used by fruit distillers for further production. For natural persons, this is the possibility of providing new and higher incomes and better use of existing orchards, labour force, members of their own household and so on. All of this should also be an incentive to develop Serbian villages and slow down the process of their depopulation. In this regard, this possibility should lead to a reduction in the amount of distillates in natural persons and an increase in their incomes, a greater amount of raw materials to registered producers and a reduction in the grey market. We are convinced that this process will certainly lead to a stronger integration of manufacturers and processors, as well as that natural persons who produce fruit distillery for registered producers will at some point find economic profitability to become registered producers of strong alcoholic beverages themselves, leading to an increase in the number of registered producers. Dear People's MPs, the proposal for this law also regulates the process of protecting the geographical origin of strong alcoholic beverages. Protecting the geographical origin of fruit brandy from Serbia should give them an important additional seal of visibility and quality. The proposed law allows for a simple and precise methodology of protection of geographical indications to producers with an interest in producing strong alcoholic beverages with added value. We expect this to be an incentive and development of new business entities, certification bodies in the control of production and the quality of strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication. Otherwise, the geographical indication under the existing law represents the individual right of one producer who registered that label and can only be placed on the market of brandy with that geographical indication. Individual producers do not have the power to compete on the international market in terms of the quantity and continuity of the delivery of products. In addition, under the applicable law, only fruit brandy plums and grapes can have a protected geographical code. The proposed law foresees, instead of individual, collective protection of geographical indications in a simple and transparent manner. This procedure will contribute to the producer's greater interest in protecting alcoholic beverages produced by the same production technology. The new law also gives the possibility to protect any strong alcoholic beverages, not just brandy, if manufacturers comply with the prescribed technologies. In this way the product gets mass, becomes a recognizable brand on the market, and thus achieves a greater affirmation of strong alcoholic beverages with special features from a specific area, in which it is traditionally and in a specific way produced. Strong alcoholic beverages with geographical labelling are more valuable due to added value, more recognizable on the market and achieve a higher price. In addition to this, the proposed law precisely regulates and defines the issue of categorisation and declaration of strong alcoholic beverages. In line with the regulations in this area at EU level. Under the applicable 2009 law, all alcoholic beverages are divided into brandy and other alcoholic beverages. Other alcoholic beverages are then classified as strong alcoholic beverages and other beverages. In this section there are certain drinks such as lawns, special brandy, vines, vines and the like, which, due to inadequate declaration, are unrecognizable on the international market and, as such, lead consumers astray. This law proposes the introduction of 47 categories of alcoholic beverages, and all our traditional products will still be able to be found on the market with slight changes in the manner of declaration. The introduction of categories of strong alcoholic beverages with clearly defined raw materials, and way of production, will eliminate the possibility of misleading consumers about the origin and quality of products, especially when it comes to fruit brandy. The text of the new law will apply to all strong alcoholic beverages of 15% in accordance with Regulation 110/2008. All alcoholic beverages will be treated as low alcoholic beverages defined by the Food Safety Act and the Regulation on the declaration, labelling and advertising of food. These changes, particularly in the area of categorisation and declaration of strong alcoholic beverages, create preconditions for further development of the strong alcohol and investment industry in the sector, as they apply the same categories and same means of declaration as in the EU, which is very important in order to encourage the development and export-oriented domestic sector to encourage potential investors to consider investment in this production with more security and more attention. Finally, it should be noted that the proposal also received a maximum rating from the European Commission. Also, the bill received positive comments in public debates both in Belgrade, and in Baja Basta, and in Krusevec by domestic producers and businessmen. During the public debate in several cities, positive opinions were expressed on most of the solutions contained in the draft law, as well as numerous comments on the suggestions we were pleased to accept to have before you today as high-quality legal proposal as possible. What is extremely important to say at the very end is that after the adoption of the law, we will get a legal basis for the adoption of a series of sublegal acts such as the Regulation on the registration of the manufacturer's register or the Regulation on the content of the technical file for the protection of geographical indications of strong alcoholic beverages etc. By laying down these rules, the introduction of procedures and rules, the establishment of a geographical mark for Serbian plums and other Serbian fruit brandy, the quality and specificity of the traditions of our brandy will be protected and Serbian brandy will be recognised and competitive on both the European and the world market side by side with famous French cognac, Scottish whiskey and other world-renowned drinks. Dear People's MPs, the second law that is before you is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Application Management Protocol under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. The Sava River Basin Framework Agreement is the first international agreement on the Sava River Basin, aimed at development that provides principles and mechanisms for regional co-operation in this area. The agreement is an expression of the agreement of the Member States of the Agreement, i.e. BiH, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia on co-operation in establishing an international navigation regime, sustainable water management, protection against the harmful influence of water, water regime and water eco-systems. As you know, uncontrollable extraction of river applications can cause significant damage and directly adversely affect the water regime. Problems with production, transport, deposit and uncontrollable extraction of river applications in the Republic of Serbia at the Sava River Basin are particularly expressed in the middle and lower flow of the Drina River. The application management protocol was signed on 6 July 2015 and lays down the basic principles of sustainable application management, respecting this water regime, conservation of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna, as well as requirements to ensure safe navigation. The country undertakes to draw up a plan of application in the Sava River Basin and to exchange information on the planned dig of the application on an annual basis. The obligations of the Protocol will affect the obligations of the parties to take measures on a national plan relating to the development of legislation, the establishment of administrative, financial and technical measures for sustainable application management. The legislative framework for the implementation of this Protocol has been set up by rules in the area of water management, environmental protection and water transport, and the implementation of the Protocol will be carried out in the context of existing legal solutions and further harmonisation with European Union regulations, i.e. international agreements. The implementation of this Protocol may have a direct or long-term impact on the water regime on the Sava River Basin and on its tributaries, and in particular on the water regime in the Republic of Serbia, the lowest state in the Sava River Basin. The implementation of this agreement also allows for more intensive participation in regional co-operation and for the preparation and implementation of application management projects, which will together lead to this issue being better regulated in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38253	Thank you, Madam Minister. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Department of Politics and Department of Reporting and Commiology of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade, who are currently following today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. We're moving on to the agenda. Do any of the committee's reporters want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38254	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, I would like to make a point on the proposals of the laws on the agenda, primarily on the Proposal for a Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks. The main reason for this law is to comply with European Union standards. However, we must not forget respect for the interests of the state and the producer of brandy. The national programme for the adoption of legal fluids of the European Union from 2016 to 2018, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in July 2014, found that the adoption of the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks would provide a legal basis for the adoption of sublegal acts from the field of the organisation of a strong alcoholic drink sector. The completion of the draft of this law was planned for the third quarter of 2014, and was adopted for the fourth quarter of 2014. The adoption of this law is a year late, and the last one can be expected to be delayed in the planned rule-making dynamics, of which there are five. However, it is important that the draft law is on the agenda of the Assembly and that the proposed solutions are in line with European practice. The proposal for a law on strong alcoholic beverages is prepared to comply with European Union regulations, in particular in the part of the division of alcoholic beverages into categories, registration of geographical indications, rules relating to aging and declaration. It is important to state that the bill also complies with the provisions of the Food Safety Act, which also applies to the area of strong alcoholic beverages and through the application of the provisions of the law, provides a quality, healthy and safe product. The law, which has been in force since 2009, does not mention private producers of brandy, but this new law will regulate their rights and obligations. Under the old law, private producers of rakija are not allowed to sell any sales, which will be made possible by the adoption of this law, which is certainly positive, and this is the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, of course. The individual producer of brandy will again be able to offer its products to the market, but will, of course, have to meet certain conditions before that. Therefore, the adoption of a new Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks should help increase the production of brandy, but also preserves the decades-old tradition of making that drink in our country. The goal we all want to achieve, and primarily private manufacturers of brandy, is to increase the number of registered producers, which would contribute to a better quality of brandy and increase its production in Serbia. In addition to improving the quality of brandy, increasing production of a new Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, the export of brandy should also be stimulated. The draft law on the agenda regulates that the production of strong alcoholic beverages can be dealt with by a legal person and by an entrepreneur registered in the Register of economic operators, i.e. another relevant register and registered in the Register of producers of strong alcoholic beverages, which is run by the Ministry of Agriculture. The reminders for the sake of the 1994 Wine and Cancer Act, the production of wine, brandy and other alcoholic beverages were done by the company, i.e. the second legal and physical person and the entrepreneur, and the 2009 Act on Cancer and Alcoholic Drinks, the category of natural person as the manufacturer was abolished. A large number of natural persons of the previous brandy producers, due to high requirements and costs, decided not to engage in the registration of production under the law. According to the 1994 Law, it was necessary for natural persons to register as entrepreneurs, to possess appropriate equipment and production and appropriate fit in a permanent working relationship. As a result of the application of the 2009 Law, the number of registered producers decreased. This has left a large number of former producers out of the system, and the brandy they produce has further increased the total quantity of farm rakija produced for their own needs. In 2009, there is no mechanism for the production of a natural person in legally controlled flows, since the provisions of the law do not apply to the production of a natural person. Until the adoption of the Law on Cancer and Alcoholic Drinks in 2009, 2,048 producers were registered, of which 1,811 natural persons and 237 legal persons were registered. Most natural persons have not made a registration following the adoption of the law in accordance with the prescribed conditions. The number of producers decreased from about 2,000 to 200, and now that figure reaches only about 300 producers. After the new law was passed, this number was expected to increase. The most important newspapers are the definition of the holder of the production of conditions of registration, registration in registers, conditions of production and transport, the procedure of registration of geographical indications, the definition of the subject of production and transport. Physical persons are planned to place a surplus of their own products in further production. A certification body for the control of the production of beverages with geographical indications shall be introduced, the obligation to physically determine the technical conditions and the geographical indication shall be regulated as collective law. The bill simplifies the conditions for the manufacturer's registration, which we welcome, unlike the one in force in 2009, where manufacturers were obliged to own precisely prescribed premises, equipment and to have a permanent working relationship with an undefined agricultural engineer. According to the Food Safety Act, there is no obligation to employ appropriate professional staff, since the registered producer is responsible for the quality and regularity of strong alcoholic beverages in transport. The obligation to determine the material and technical conditions for production shall be abolished. In accordance with the applicable law, the inspector went out on the ground and determined the material and technical conditions, and now the manufacturer can, for example, do his own registration by mail. These solutions are primarily important to our small producers. In Serbia, there is a huge number of so-called "supervised". small producers, who land on smaller parcels and surfaces. These producers barely survive, have problems selling goods, with paying pension and disability insurance, year after year from various loans or loans finance their production. Due to all this and the fact that a large number of small producers, if we don't do something, will become a social case, the government of the Republic of Serbia must do something through measures and laws. We have to go through various solutions to help our farmers, we have to treat small producers in a different way, because if we treat all producers equally, then the small producers will eventually disappear, they will give up production, which is not good for our country. I remind you, at the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, which we held in Backo Topoli, where we discussed the adoption of some sublegal acts aimed at protecting our so-called small producers are primarily concerned with the Regulation on small producers as entities in the business of food of animal and plant origin. It is that this rule does not cover the production of alcoholic beverages. However, it is important to mention that, for example, through this law on the agenda, it is also aimed at increasing the number of registered owners involved in the production of brandy. It is important that Serbia also takes care of its small holdings, such as various EU countries, such as Austria and Hungary. I would like to welcome the Ministry of Agriculture's decision to try to help our smallest producers through good examples of EU countries. What I would further point out in the proposal for a law is that the control of the production and quality of strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication is in accordance with the applicable law of the obligation of agricultural inspection, and the bill introduces a certification body that will control and affect the interest of the manufacturer in producing strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication. The draft law regulates the geographical code as a collective right that can achieve associations of producers of strong alcoholic beverages and applies to certain localities in which brandy is produced in traditional ways. Therefore, all those who comply with the prescribed technology, the production defined for that region, acquire the right of users of geographical indications, unlike a valid solution, by which only those producers who protected their product as an individual geographical mark and were able to place it on the market. For example, in Serbia there are six registered manufacturers of brandy with a geographical code of origin, mainly plums, one cider and one peach. Introducing a corrective right is the only way for Serbia to gain a quantity, a greater number of users of the geographical indication and the quality of the product. For example, the manufacturer of cherries from Feketic can protect his product by registering a geographical mark. It shall be decided by the Ministry within 12 months of the date of receipt of the complete application. The SVM parliamentary group believes that the deadline of 12 months is too long, so we want to ask you, Madam Minister, is there any possibility that the Ministry will decide on a shorter deadline, or can you explain why it is necessary to wait so long for the Ministry's decision? What's the reason for that? We also point out that all prescribed deadlines are unfoundedly long. For example, within 30 days of the date of receipt, the request shall determine whether the request is complete. Where the application is incomplete, the applicant shall be informed of the missing documentation within 30 days. The paper is also that it is possible to traffic strong alcoholic beverages and distillates of agricultural origin in a rinfu state, not only among registered producers of strong alcoholic beverages, but also between all operators on the market when alcoholic beverages and distillates are subject to further processing and processing. In this way, natural persons are given the possibility that the excess of their own needs of distillates through an appropriate contractual relationship, break up further production, and allow registered producers of strong alcoholic beverages to purchase raw material from natural persons, its further processing and processing. Legal persons and entrepreneurs registered in the register of producers of brandy and other alcoholic beverages, established in accordance with the applicable law, shall be deemed to be entered in the register. We think it's a good solution. It is also positive that the geographical indication of brandy and other alcoholic beverages entered into the register in accordance with the applicable law may be used for a maximum period of five years from the date of entry into force of this law. Since the adoption of the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks aims to develop and develop the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia and since the registration process, geographical indications and its use are more justly regulated, thus protecting intellectual property in this area and since the new law will have a positive impact on the development of primary fruit production, as well as raw materials for the production of brandy, the SVM parliamentary group will vote for this proposal. Of course, you can count on our support in the case of other acts on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38255	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38256	Dear Vice-President, Madam Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, what I would like to mention at the outset is that the Honorable Madam Minister has stated that this is the ninth legislative proposal that lies ahead of this meeting of the National Assembly, in front of the resolution ministry, and this is very commendable. What I would ask you at the very beginning of this principle debate is, can you ask us as MPs and the Serbian public who is following this transmission to answer what the debts of the subsidy ministry are, for agricultural producers, at the conclusion of 1.11.2015? I live in the country, respected ministers, and every day the neighbors ask me, and I was a witness listening to you on one national television, when you said in the morning program that all subsidies were paid...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38257	Mr. Jovanovic, I ask you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38258	Mr. Vice President, this is a principle debate and I expect you to be able to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38259	But you can't talk in principle about something that has nothing to do with today's subject and the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38260	The minister said that 178,000 hectares in Serbia are under the fruit, that 46% of it is under the plum, that it's the most brandy, and we're talking today about the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, and that's 90% of it in terms of brandy, the Honorable Vice President of this National Assembly, and now we should talk about these little...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38261	Mr. Jovanovic, but it has nothing to do with subsidies. Please, as I must remind the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, to return to the topic, to speak. If you are not prepared for this debate and for this law, you have a day when it is for questions and you can ask the Minister's question in that day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38262	All right. We'll try to speak a little different language then. Mrs Bogosavljevic, here you have, once again, the fact that 178,000 hectares are under the highest quality fruit in Serbia, that 46% of it is under the plum. You've also provided information that our institutes, of course, the Fruit Institute in Chačka, are leading. We've heard from you, which I'm particularly proud of, because I come from the forest, from Topola, that the forest district and the largest producer of brandy. But I would ask you these questions, so it would be good for you to just, in response to some more questions that I have, to mention them, too. What I just want to say about the concrete law is that this law, frankly, is a big step forward and should be commended. There is liberalisation in this law in relation to the law passed by the previous government and the previous assembly of this Parliament, which has made it impossible for small producers, or individuals, to deal legally with the production of brandy. What is a big problem, in Serbia there is a tradition of our fathers, grandfathers who have been producing, above all, brandy and it will work in Serbia, forest farmers in the future, whether you say there is an EU consent or not, we will do it. What I'd like to ask you is that we try to clarify today what is in this latest legislative proposal the role of a small producer, or a natural person. Let me just point out, what I praised is that according to the previous law, a natural person, who is not an entrepreneur, who is not a legal person, who is not a registered owner, can be involved in production, and that's what you said to your associates, so, by producing brandy for your own needs. I also asked on the Agriculture Committee this morning for you to make a statement and that your associates make it clear whether production is for your own purposes if, for example, someone has rakia in our house, thank God, drinking and when it is sad and when it is a joy, a real wedding of 500 people, or God doesn't have a funeral and uses his own brandy, and it's not registered land, or can the inspector come and ask for punishment to be written to a man? In accordance with Article 48(2) of the Law, legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons subject to inspection are required to provide the agricultural inspector with samples of the distillation of the agricultural origin of strong alcoholic beverages free of charge for testing. What I also mentioned on the Committee this morning, and now I would say it again, because it would be important for the public to make this situation clear, so if I produce brandy for my own needs and I get certain surpluses, I don't have a registered land, does that mean that I can only sell those surpluses on behalf of someone who has registered land to a legal person who does a further ransom and, let me say, can still trade with the brandy that I've produced, as a physical person? I think this in law could have been a little happier to define it that way, I mean, there's a income tax on citizens, and I don't see why, if you've already stressed that it's going to be formed in the Ministry of Producers' Register, and this producer's register defines who can handle the production of strong alcoholic beverages, then you haven't left a natural person to do that if they register without just going through registered land? We have a different situation in Serbia and it is not all, above all, small producers in registered land. What I would like to ask you in particular, Mrs. Minister, and your associates, too, is to simply pay attention to Article 54, which is a violation of natural persons. It is prescribed, I will quote: that a fine of 20 to 150 thousand dinars will be fined for the violation of a natural person, if he exposes and sells a very alcoholic drink in a grizzly state, then I quote: at the fair, the market, the catering and the sale facility and others." This is Article 45(1). I have also submitted to this member an amendment on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, where we are asking to delete the word "the fair". What exactly does this mean in practice? If this definition remains, I would also ask the MPs to pay attention, meaning all the economic and tourist manifestations in Serbia that carry in themselves exhibits of strong wines and brandy, and here, above all, I am talking about brandy, will have a problem that the brandy will not be able to be on the gigs, it refers to the Obelenčka harvest both in Smederjevska fall and in Župska Berba, Karlovačka, that I do not already list them all, that it appears as an exhibition exhibit if it is not from a registered producer, or if it is from a natural person. That's why I'm asking you that agricultural inspectors, who will control this in front of the department, do not come into an awkward situation. We had this as a criminal policy in the previous law. She, I must say, has been missing too quietly, or the inspectors have had an understanding for exhibitors at these economic and tourism fairs and events, but in order not to repeat it, I think it is correct for you to accept this amendment and to delete the word "atms" and to remain "at the market, in the catering facilities, in the sales venues". What is important and what I want to praise in this bill is a registered geographical origin. This has already proved to be a good thing with the wine producer, it has proved to be a positive circumstance that we have the association of the wine producer and we already have the Oblenčko area as a protected geographical origin of the wine, and we will do it very quickly for fruit brandy producers and there will be no problem. What I would ask you, dear Madam Minister, to think about and to create in the budget for the following year a special area for subsidies to new fruit plantations, and above all to think about plums and to try one action, which we once talked about, is that Serbia gets a new million so far, for example, plums and then we could increase this kind of production, and on the other hand, encourage the growth of our domestic species and help fruit institutes, not only in Chačka, but also in other ways, and that we could try to help the Serbian peasant, because if it prepares land and if there are already some amounts planted, it does not only use them for the production of strong brandy, but also for export. You were in Moscow a few days ago and you saw the potential for exporting, primarily Serbian food and Serbian fruit to the Russian market. I think we could do that, and you would have support from the MPs and the New Serbia Parliament Club, to help the Serbian peasant in this way. The New Serbia parliamentary group will support the law in principle in a voting day. We think it's a big step forward. I would ask you to consider all of our amendments that we have submitted, because we think that only in the definition of a physical producer can it be arranged in a slightly better way, and I think you'll have an understanding of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38263	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38264	I will ask questions as you, Your Honor, try to answer them, although the first question has nothing to do with the proposed law, but given that you have highlighted it and that you have called the Ministry of Agriculture, I would like to say it again for the sake of the public. The agriculture ministry has the funds defined by the Budget Law every year, sometime by the end of November or early December. It is you who adopt the Budget Law and, within the framework of the Budget Act, adopt the funds you define according to agriculture. I remind you that last year you, the National Assembly, adopted the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment and under it the funds intended to subsidize farmers, etc. Agrarian budget. The amount of the agricultural budget this year, the one you adopted, is about 24 billion dinars. The agriculture ministry has not paid the farmers around four billion at this time, which means that the implementation of the budget on yesterday is about 80%. You should know that, too, and all those who call us and blame us for that, as if we're the ones who've given the subsidies for some other purpose than farmers. I have to tell you, every penny went to the farmers, and that's how it's gonna be, and that's how it has to be. Eighty percent of the budget implementation, at this point, you'll agree, not very little, and I am confident that the budget will be realised, if not 100%, then 99% by the end of this year, the current budget funds. In this regard, I would like to tell you that at the Agrarian Payments Administration, which handles the demands of our farmers, we work 66 full-time employees and 15 of them under contract for temporary and occasional jobs. One of our employees has 5,600 registered agricultural holdings. There's 250 coming to one in Europe. Our people make every effort, work, and advocate that every request with the attention of processing and often the demands of our farmers are incomplete, some document missing, some signature missing. We don't return those demands in the sense that we reject them, we return them only in the sense that they are done. That's what's true. I have to say, they're wondering if they haven't paid the money for 6,000 a hectare? These are the funds that are more compared to what is foreseen by the agrarian budget for this year. How is that more? By planning the budget for next year, each year we can have thirty thousand owners more or less, simply this year we are planning something for next year, which is not good and what has proved to be a bad legal solution in the previous years. It does not exist anywhere in Europe, simply this year, subsidies are paid for the previous year. So the legal deficit is such that in this year, despite the measures adopted in terms of the reduction of hectares for subsidisation, we had more hectares, or more agricultural landowners, who took advantage of the possibility that by dividing the land and dividing the hectares by the members of the land, we simply had this measure adopted last year. It's a long story, but it's not just the Ministry of Agriculture, it's also our government. We want, despite the fact that one of these precedents has been made by our farmers that we do not expect, but we expect to be good partners and of course not all of them, but one number has abused it, we are now looking for a way to overcome this problem, but certainly in the coming years we have to offer new solutions for next year, never to get into this situation again. That's what's true, it's not correct and it's not right and it's not true that the Ministry of Agriculture owes. He doesn't owe anyone. It's a budget that's dedicated to the ministry and we're implementing it. It's been realized 80% and it'll be 100% by the end of the year. This is something new that both the ministry and the government want this situation to overcome and to prepare such a situation so that this is no longer repeated and unfortunately repeated in previous years. So much for subsidies. You mentioned subsidies still in the works to encourage the rise of new fruit plantations, new plum plantations, etc., I must say, we already have that. We stimulate and encourage the processing of land and the purchase of seedlings and the purchase of backs, anti-urban protection, protection against plant diseases and pests. The question is how many manufacturers want to use it now, unfortunately in the previous years, the most interesting were those who are interested in these 6,000 per hectare, so to speak. There are few who are interested in investment, because in this part of investment we never have a problem, we always have enough money, we often don't have enough of those who are interested. To go back to the proposed law. The law is clear, the law wants to simplify registration rules, wants to simplify the rules of the production itself, wants to reduce the grey economy and wants to increase the number of registered producers. For what? Because we have a large production in the gray zone, about 22.5 million liters of rakija produced various fruit species this year, and our estimates and our field knowledge say that this production is as much as 80 million. So it's only one quarter registered. The question is, what happens to this real production that isn't registered? It is not difficult to conclude that this current law that we want to change simply does not give the possibility of legally finding these surpluses in traffic, but probably in some illegal way, or in a gray zone, in a gray economy, this surplus is somehow being placed. We want to change that, we want the small manufacturer, so every one that has excess-produced brandy, produced alcohol, that excess is legally placed. Why? Because we want this product to be controlled first of all, to be health-resistant for consumers. Secondly, so that this producer is not in the gray zone, but in the legal zone, that he places his product, that we have a Syrian base that will mean more Serbia's export potential, when it comes to strong alcoholic beverages. What does that mean for one physical person, the manufacturer? This means that he will be able to produce brandy, bake brandy as he has so far, he will not have to meet all those rigid and strict requirements under this applicable law. He will produce, he will be able to place his product by selling it to a registered producer who further improves it. Why? Because this registered producer now guarantees quality and guarantees health security. That's one possibility. Another possibility is that the manufacturer himself as a natural person is just registering so that he can be a registered producer. It is necessary to apply to the APR, to pay a certain tax of several thousand, then register with the ministry-run liquor producer's register and now it further produces, further traffics, but it bears both responsibility for quality and health security. By this law, we guarantee health care. Every small producer, every natural person who is willing to pay that tax and enters this circle of business entities and takes care of safety, to be responsible, we welcome and he is welcome, and those others who are not yet strong enough, they will fulfill this task through registered manufacturers. We want these surpluses in legal flows, we want small producers of their surpluses to have incomes, we want to increase production, to better employ their orchards, their family members as labour force, etc. And yet the registered producers become more serious, to be stronger, to have more products, and as such they will certainly be able to easily place their product on the market, whether it is the Serbian market, whether it is foreign markets. In doing so, with this much potential in fruit production and with this much tradition, the centuries-old tradition of producing strong alcoholic beverages, Serbia has a negative balance when it comes to exporting and importing strong alcoholic beverages. We want to change that, and we're sure this is the right way and there's no other way. So I want to remove both your suspicions and the suspicions of all the viewers that we're making this complicated. No, on the contrary, we make their production be placed, that they may be lower costs, that they may be competitive. They will have no obligation like this in the current law that we are changing and that they have a technologist in constant working relationship throughout the year, because we realized that it is not necessary, because it is the production of seasonal character and now we want to make everything easier for them, but they are responsible for quality and safety. Therefore, they will export the finished product to the market. This product must be absolutely due to the health security of consumers. Anything else can be a matter of using available potentials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38265	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. (Dragan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Jovanovic. The Minister answered all your questions and comments. Mr. Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38266	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Department of Agriculture. As far as the JS parliamentary group is concerned, we will support in the voting day the draft law on strong alcoholic beverages, as well as the protocol that forms an integral part of this principle debate. We believe that there are several reasons why this law has entered the assembly procedure and why it will be adopted in the voting day, I am sure of it. Surely the most important reason is that we, even in this area, have to comply with the laws of the European Community, which is the EU that we are seeking. What we JS MPs want in particular to stress is that this law, I would say, solves the issue of the production of strong alcoholic beverages more democratically. Why do I say that? According to the currently applicable Cancer Act and other alcoholic beverages, that small producer, since it was mostly said to small producers, was obliged to register his agricultural land, to have a technologist if he wanted to produce brandy or some other strong alcoholic beverages, all of which increased his cost of production. Today, this small producer can sell these products to manufacturers, whether legal persons or entrepreneurs registered. So all those surpluses he's got don't have to be on the market, but he can sell to these people I've been talking about. On the other hand, it should be pointed out in particular, and I ask you, Madam Minister, to decidently tell the cameras and to avoid any speculation that has been made public by many who want to stop the country's progress, say that Serbia will be prohibited from producing primarily brandy for their own needs. Here, I say, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group – respected viewers will not be banned from producing brandy for their own purposes. Anyone with plums, dunes, apples, pears, etc. of which they want to produce homemade brandy can produce it for their own purposes, give it to friends, relatives, etc. and that he drinks and members of his family. Therefore, there is no legal ban on this production, and this should be clearly and loudly said and put an end to the stories of those carers who are already better already through funds, some public information means said that these strong alcoholic beverages in Serbia would be banned. The JS parliamentary group once again says - respected viewers will not be banned from producing such strong alcoholic beverages for their own purposes. What we welcome in this new law is that in a more precise way you have arranged who can produce these strong alcoholic beverages, and also to highlight the geographical origin in a clear and visible way in their products so that every consumer can see what it is about. So far, so to speak, and it is, and it isn't, but now it's said in a precise way what it is production of dunes, plums, apples, pears, grapes, etc. As far as the registration thing is concerned, I was already saying, but once again, let's point out that the legal entities and these other smaller businessmen, i.e., entrepreneurs, will be able to buy the products of surpluses that small producers have and to give them further, further to the market or where there is a need for their products. What the JS parliamentary group particularly emphasises and welcomes is this transitional period that you left in article 55 to all producers that they can agree within two years of the date of entry into force of this law of their registration, because this law will take effect early next year, and will have two years to comply with these products with the new law. It is also good that the current producers who are registered producers of brandy and other alcoholic beverages, which are registered under the current law, will be subject to future registration. It says in Article 55, who wants to read can see. As for all those who want to deal with the production of rakija, i.e. strong alcoholic beverages, to say so, they will have to meet certain criteria under these laws, but I would advise you to make an exception through the Ministry's inspection services for one three to six months from the day of entry into force of this law and, possibly, to your inspectors when they go out on the ground, that we from JS who are constantly on the ground and we know what the situation is like throughout Serbia, that in the markets, because mostly on the markets, they sell brandy and other products, strong alcoholic beverages, not immediately being punished or applied for punishment, and so on, rather, rather than being at the beginning of warning to these producers, or those sellers, that they have yet entered into force of the new law, and if they are not registered that they can're not be able to sell that they come immediately to come to judge them for violations with 20 or more thousands. You have to understand that one manufacturer who carried out a dozen or 15 or 20 liters of brandy, whether Sljevivica, Komovica, Dunjevaca or what, if someone punishes him with 20,000 dinars, it's a maltene his entire maybe annual production that he has. So I ask you to keep in mind, and the JS suggests it, or the MP club, that you have in mind what's going to happen on the ground. So that I don't have much longer, I think the law is very clear and precise and in one comprehensive way solves this matter. We from the JS Parliament Club will support these changes in the voting day and you have our full support in its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38267	The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38268	I thank the chairman. Madam Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us a law that regulates a very important matter from the aspect of products and the transport of products that are regulated by this law. For someone, this product is a pleasure, and for most of us it is a potential danger and it is very important to consider in one serious way all legislative regulations, especially this law that you have proposed. What is commendable is that the law is well done, that the public debate is in a good way and that it is that we all need to be aware that it is legal legislation that already exists legally in the EU and that, under the Food Safety Act, which I know, alcohol, or drinks represent food. So they're regulated by this law, and it's very important that we keep in mind that in addition to traffic, which is important to regulate and control, in addition to the way they produce, it's very important to control the health of these products that they can do, we've witnessed this, huge damage to people's health. What I would also like to commend is that a few of the segments this new law makes. The previous law was a law that also regulated and excluded the possibility of individual production, which will have to happen in the coming period with innovation and this law. And I wouldn't accuse him too much because Article 4 said they were exempt from the law, legal regulations for their own purposes. We, even in this law, are one recommendation and a request from someone who deals with the health of people at the end of the line, and this is primarily an important fact that there is no regulated control of the health correctness of the products for their own needs. By saying that a manufacturer can produce a very alcoholic drink for his own needs, and that he does not put it on the market, he has invited guests to celebrate, to lunch, he has given the neighbor a bottle of alcohol, so he is not subject to the obligation to control the product, and we as socially responsible people need that, we, the MP group Boris Tadic SDS, together for Serbia, Green Serbia, have submitted an amendment that will help this part of the legislation to be complemented. It is very simple, what we suggest, and we will explain it later and more in detail, meaning that it is not impossible for the manufacturer to exercise control for his own needs, to obtain confirmation, a declaration, without having to enter this register of producers, but that, as we have suggested in the amendment, the Ministry prescribes the rule of law the way this matter will be treated. What is important is to bear in mind that a third of the total quantity of strong alcoholic beverages that are out of control is this production for their own purposes. So we can't order someone to drink in their house, but we're socially responsible for protecting his health. How? Legislative assumptions that will make it easier for him not to register as a producer, but to have the right to control and enter the register of those producers for his own purposes, thus not destroying the concept of this law. I would ask the Minister to listen to me, so you would understand. So it's not an observation, it's a complete law, it's a quality of praise. It is a European law that allows us, in the next period on this regulation, not to worry about this matter, but in order to improve it, we therefore considered it necessary to show another higher level of social consciousness, which would provide the possibility that, without obligation, with your own desire, each producer for his own needs could exercise control of this product and that the same product should be certified of quality, means that it does not enter into the register of producers, but in some register, you will see it later in the amendment it is well explained, I think you will accept it. Another remark is that there is little, it's probably a technical mistake, indifference in some deadlines. For example, you have in Article 22 to examine the fundamentality of the request for registration of a geographical mark, which is a very important phase in the registration process, geographical indications in the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry has a 12-month deadline to respond, that is too much, and then the applicant gets 30 days to respond. I just want to help, as our entire parliamentary group wants to be useful to the people by making every law more efficient, to draw attention to these things, it is commendable that there is a register of those who deal with legal legislation regarding food safety control, they know that the basic postulate is traceability. So we absolutely welcome the register, quality control, production control, geographical origin. That's a good solution, that mark goes collectively, that it can be used for others. What's also important is that it's been given the opportunity for manufacturers to do them, and we all know that a small number of producers for their own use have a semi-product, mostly all that product leads to the end. We're them this way, i.e. You have legally given them the opportunity to sell a finished product to someone who paid for the registration and has the right to do so. It's like selling a high-quality breeding throat, so you sell, as they say, to buyers, so you sell it a kilo instead of selling it at an infertile value. I'm using a jargon expression. It's the same for you, someone's going to have to have their own quality brandy, because there's no way to register it, because it's not big enough to make it worth it or whatever, sell your finished product who can put a sticker on it. Basically, the law is very positive. The regulation of this matter is very important for the population and it is commendable to your efforts and all that you have done. Please consider this a serious and constructive proposal from our parliamentary group and myself, since we will have to someday, however or whatever we do. In the voting day, we will support this law because it is a progressive law and a quality European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38269	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has the mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38270	Dear ministers, dear guests from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a very important law, a law that, especially for Serbia, regulates one matter that is in the fabric of our society. Unfortunately, for centuries alcohol celebrates the birth of a child, alcohol, unfortunately, and ends life on this planet and every funeral, every birth, every glory, every joyous and negative event is tied to alcohol. Unfortunately, Serbia is on the rise in alcoholism sufferers, from people who consume alcohol. This law is good because it's going to regulate one matter that was, unfortunately, uncovered by legislation. I am Nishlia, my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and I will remind the citizens of Serbia of a major affair that was in 1998, so to speak. "caller" and schnapp poisoning from one of my fellow citizens who made alcohol past the standard of making alcoholic beverages and took more than 43 people to death in 1998. This, in my opinion, was already an alarm for the republican government and the resolution ministry to worry much more about how alcoholic beverages are produced, how these alcoholic beverages are distributed, and how practically Serbian citizens are in contact with those drinks. What I want to tell you as a professor of medical school is that an increasing number of young people who consume alcohol and who give themselves to alcohol, unfortunately, and within their family for the first time come into contact with alcohol, watch as their parents, their grandfathers consume alcohol. Considering that it's normal, and kids take those family habits, they take those habits from our society, because if we look at all the commercials on national TV, next to the stakes, you have the largest number of beer ads, some hot drinks. I think it's good that we produce and do marketing, it's good for television, it's good for those houses that they produce, but I think we need to start a campaign besides this law that you're doing today, and you're proposing to Serbian Parliament MPs, in a preventive programme that, in addition to what you're proposing to control and legally regulate the production of alcoholic beverages, that your ministry, that the Ministry of Health, that the government go into a very extensive campaign, like we're doing a little bit against tobacco, and then we stopped a little bit, so we passed the smoking law, so maybe even in congregation rooms, hospitals, schools, etc., and we don't respect that law ourselves. I think it takes a national campaign on alcohol harmfulness, so it's not a traditional drink in Serbia, let's say -- you're alive, you're healthy, come on, drink. We need to slowly eradicate these things, to tell the citizens that alcohol is very harmful, to use and abuse of alcohol damages the liver, to damage blood vessels, to damage spleen, to damage many internal organs, esophageals, from the stomach and anyone else that can cause problems. By this law you make one move, one scale you raise, but it is necessary to apply this law, to see how this law will function in application on the ground itself. You need to know that alcohol is very accessible to young people. There is a law prohibiting the issue of alcoholic beverages to minors. In all cities, however, you will see that young people easily come into contact with alcohol, legally buying, even though the law regulates that they cannot come into contact with alcohol. What I want to tell you on behalf of the DS parliamentary group is that alcohol is very difficult to disrupt both physical and mental health. According to numerous estimates of experts in the area, it is said to shorten life from 15 to 20 years. Serbia has not yet developed that awareness of alcoholism, of all diseases that can contribute to alcohol use. Alcoholism promotes hooliganism. Alcoholism triggers numerous murders. Alcoholism and alcohol use stimulates rape, triggers a large number of car accidents. Ten days ago in this assembly, we had a law on the protection of the health of workers in factories. Mr. Vulin was there, and I was then the same story as the name of the DS parliamentary group. When we received information from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, In Western Europe, the number of injured workers is much smaller than that in the Balkans, I was then linking it to the abuse and consumption of alcohol both at work and in factory facilities. That's what I'm saying today, that we need, in addition to stricter control of the production of alcohol, to introduce stricter controls and the use of these alcoholic beverages and in factory plants and in enterprises, Republic and city self-government, because it's taken one habit of having you drink, let's do for a good morning, come on for a good day, come on, you're alive, you're healthy, you're okay, you're a man, drink etc. There is also a large number of women who consume alcohol, which is very bad. I think these are topics that require a clear answer and a faster response from the republican authorities. You are responding with this law to prevent the making of alcoholic beverages that could practically lead someone into a disease or, God forbid, death, as the "caller" carried more than 43 citizens of Serbia to their death. When I'm talking about "callers", I'm interested and I want to get information from you that this affair was in 1998, and that only in 2002 did 4,000 liters in Krushevac heat of that drink have been destroyed, but that 750 liters were returned to that poison practically because it's not brandy, it's poison. There have been some more thefts, and some bottles of these "callers" have practically circulated again among the citizens of our country. So control must be. I know you have a small number of inspectors who could control and cover the entire territory, but you have to work on getting more into the control of the production of alcoholic beverages. My colleague Markovic spoke before me about the importance of controlling not only alcoholic products that will be sold, but even alcoholic beverages that are produced for his use, which are very easy to do through some birthday lunches or celebration dinners can come to the table and that practically other guests will be compensated, injured and might be threatened by some bad drinks. What I also want to say about this law is that it is very important, in addition to the education of the population, that we draw attention to parents that parents also have to prevent them from affecting their children and that they carry a lot of things out of the family, so this tendency to an alcoholic drink is also carried. When a child sees a parent who smokes and drinks, it's perfectly normal for him, so at some point when he grows up to be prone to these vices. I also want to tell you that, unfortunately, Serbia and the Serbian population are one of the sicker nations in Europe for many chronic and non-infectious diseases, such as theft diseases, such as malignancies. The risk factor for all these conditions, which unfortunately affect our nation, is alcohol. That substance that's accepted by ours and nothing bad is said of. This law itself has prompted public attention in the sense that this is now a law that will prevent something. I'd be overjoyed if I could really stop at all production and for Serbia to be out of alcohol, that would be something great, but we can't do that. But we can make it possible to send the same message through the family. It is up to you as a republican executive to do a national campaign on the harmfulness of alcohol and tobacco, but it is certainly a message to Serbian families to reject this cult of drinks that has been insulted practically, as I said, from birth to death. We literally and bad and good times connect to alcohol. I repeat that in Europe, we are among the leading countries in cardiovascular disease patients, at the mortality of cardiovascular disease, at the rate of malignancy of all organs. Here, as a professor I'm talking to you, not as an MP, it's a very bad combination, tobacco and alcohol. That increases the percentage of malignant tumours. So, we're talking about poor uranium, and basically we have something that we consume on our own every day, that alcohol and those cigarettes. The public's attention was on the World Health Organization's decision on the harmfulness of bacon and red meat. I'll tell you that this is a much bigger and more dangerous factor of risk, alcohol and cigarettes. Citizens who are having little fun at the expense of the World Health Organisation's decision to consume bacon should know that alcohol and cigarettes are much more dangerous than the consumption of bacon. So you're not gonna miss anything as much as you're gonna miss cigarettes and alcohol. I will slowly bring my address to you, with a desire to enter much more, and this is one step forward certainly, which seems to be the story of this law, the very story of this law and the story of the control of the production of alcoholic beverages, because in Serbia indeed every house, including my house, my late father, my grandfather, everyone in my family made and consumed those drinks. It's just a shame that one family doesn't practically have their own brandy. I have no intention of continuing that tradition. I think we should lead a much healthier life, devote ourselves to exercise, healthy food, and that alcohol, as we prevent legal solutions, from sending a message of one prevention, one healthier nation, because every government in Serbia will say it wants economic development. I tell you as a doctor, on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, that economic development reforms can't happen unless you have a healthy nation. The Serbian nation, unfortunately, is in a great deal of trouble because of the many diseases we suffer from. So, a common struggle, work, prevention and education from both family and executive authorities, to prevent the percentage of our citizens' illnesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38271	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law that actually touches many of us, those who consume alcohol and who aim to have a better quality drink, those who produce alcohol, agricultural producers, producers that are registered, and the state budget, if you will, because most of the income, the majority of the market is today, unfortunately, when it comes to the production of alcohol, in the gray market. I think we have a very good law in front of us, a law that is quite life-saving, which has accepted the fact that today in Serbia citizens do not have large financial resources to finance the production of alcohol, which in many ways has simplified the full regulation that we have so far and created space to create both greater quantities of strong alcoholic beverages on the market and more quality alcoholic beverages on the market, and that, above all, what I see as the basic quality and basic objective of this law, comes to a foreign market, to go first and foremost to export. The fact is that we have a large quantity of strong alcoholic beverages, that it exceeds the needs of our market and that, therefore, a large part of the fruit, which is very high quality, is not even collected, is not exploited and that we need to realise and achieve significantly greater foreign income than we have so far. Serbia's comparative advantage in this area, in this sector, is obvious in relation to, above all, the EU. We have a very good climate, a very good quality of fruit and we have a technology that has been developed for centuries and that is very well known to our people, the way alcoholic beverages are produced. Therefore, the development of the sector itself should also allow this law to make as many of our agricultural producers as possible revenue, to increase investments in production and to make this through a number of brands, indeed one export chance, export potential when it comes to the production of alcoholic beverages, production and exports of generally agricultural products. So, so far, we have had one bad situation that has already been mentioned, first of all, thanks to this law, which was adopted in 2009, which has not recognised natural persons and farmers as the potential of Serbia, which has significantly increased the grey market in Serbia, which has led to very low prices in Serbia today, which, above all, dictates the gray market and significantly prevents more production of registered liquor producers and a higher offer, with which we could possibly go out to the world market and thus a very poor quality of alcoholic beverages. So, what does this law bring against the law so far? In part, my colleagues talked about it, but I'd say it again. So production for our own needs, everything we've produced so far, everything that the citizens of Serbia have produced, nothing changes. They are the ones who guarantee the quality of their products. So individual manufacturers, physical faces. They are the ones who can give their product, can consume it themselves, and so can their family members, but those who are also not allowed to bottle their product, to sell it further, and what is the special quality of this law is that it allows them to sell distillates. The sale of distillates for some 300,000 individual producers that have registered, at least by statistical data and producing fruit, is possible today. They can sell extra distillates to manufacturers and these producers, of course, get an orphan base from which they can produce a significantly larger quantity of strong alcoholic beverages, and as I said, first of all, they are directed towards foreign markets. What else am I supposed to point out? What is a newspaper and, in my opinion, an extremely good solution, is the fact that the individual rights that we had when it comes to the geographical code of origin, goes to collective. What's that supposed to mean? So far, you could register a particular brand and yourself as an individual or the one you want to cooperate with has the right to this brand, has the right to use that brand. Now things change completely. You or the group, or the association, or your colleagues, can register that brand, but any registering with the Ministry of Agriculture, can join that brand and significantly increase the quantity, means branded drinks, and with that amount we encourage the economy of both of which is a condition that we could even go to the foreign market, means out of Serbia. That's what a terrible quality of this law is. This is what opens the perspective for individual producers, because it is possible in this way that through brands, through one uniform quality steps out and that there is a need for a larger amount of distillates, and therefore, possibly through the development of primary production, which is in some way neglected, given that fruit production requires quite a lot of investment and that the largest amount of fruit we produce is the largest amount of fruit, and we boast large quantities of produced fruit, fruit of the second and third categories, possibly industrial fruit, with which we cannot go out to the market as with consumption fruit. The further story with the geographical indication of origin is that, by creating national geographical indications of origin, we can enter the process that we can register these geographical indications of origin in Europe, because so far we have very small quantities that we export to the EU. It is mainly exported, at least according to data collected by me, to countries outside the EU, Switzerland, Russia, America, Australia, but relatively small quantities go to EU countries and that is something that needs to be changed. Another important newspaper and something that should help the market in the coming period be wider and offer a more quality product, these are certification bodies. It's something that we haven't had in the previous law so far, and which is one, I would say, the serious quality of this law, because the fact that inspection services couldn't reach everywhere and control the quality of alcoholic beverages means fruit brandy, because above all, our goal is to increase the production of fruit brandy and allow this law to transfer this business of inspection to a part of the certification body. These seritcavian bodies should guarantee that you have a product of uniform quality per brand that has previously been registered, as I said, geographical indications of origin and these certification bodies issue authorisations for the marketing of certain quantities of product, which satisfy these qualities. Of course, the Ministry will indirectly control them through products that are on the market, whether they fully fulfil their social role, and their role is to improve the quality of the domestic product, because without it there is no progress in this production and once again going abroad. Everything else, and what are the possibilities of this law, refers above all to cheaper production, means agricultural producers who want to be registered in the producer's register can do so, this time to do it at significantly less cost. I think we should at least go back to 2009 and have about 2,000 producers at that point, and even if that number increased, of course. That it is very important that both the declaration and the categorisation of alcoholic piss have been made according to European standards, it is in line with this law. I think the producer's register is something that is extremely important, because only if you have the right data, which is collected every year can you run some policy and possibly some sublegal acts to improve this sector. As far as I'm concerned, I'm one of those guys who thinks this is a good solution. A good solution because I think that the riff market lowers the quality of the product and that it needs to be avoided because I see this whole law as a law that needs to boost exports, because by relying on the domestic market, our producers have no perspective whatsoever. What's important for the state register, and that's to say, it's serious money, of course there's no illusions, most of that money, as it currently stands, it's about 200m euros, it's not gonna be possible to collect, it's simply a possibility of self-production, or production for its own needs, and that part of the alcoholic beverages will not be taxed completely safe, but by the fact that one part of the individual producers will go into legal flows, it will certainly mean bigger tax revenues. I hope, in that sense, that percentage, mentioned by the minister, about 25% of the association's claims, that percentage is significantly less legal sales of alcoholic beverages, will increase in some future period, because if we talk about 200m euros, it is approximately the current deficit that the republican budget had somewhere in July. So, the essence of this law is exports, and will the Ministry of Agriculture in Co-operation with the Ministry of Trade allow exports to take place smoothly, normally, will it help these producers to enter the market and will this working group take care of the export of Serbian alcoholic beverages? It will depend on whether this law will have full application and whether we will come into a situation where everything we have today as a surplus of fruit production is processed through one product that is, to be said, permanent, which makes it different from many other fruit products and which generates very good incomes and that should be said, it may be most commercial when it comes to fruit processing. So, the bottom line is exports, and I'm asking the Ministry to accompany the exporters, to identify the problems they might have. I personally did not, preparing for this debate, recognise that there are currently some restrictions, but, in any case, must not be allowed to appear, and the current procedure should be simplified as much as possible. This law will provide an opportunity for all agricultural producers that produce fruit to make serious income and significantly improve their economic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38273	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38274	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present my views on the proposed laws on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. So, we're talking about a bill on strong alcoholic beverages and a bill on confirming the Protocol by applying, with the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement. Before I express my views, I would like to point out and in some ways express my praise about the intensive legislative activity of the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment, given that so far we have had nine laws on the agenda and more than 15 laws on the validation of international agreements in the area of agriculture and environmental protection. This relates to the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment within our current government is truly agile and responsible. The new law on strong alcoholic beverages, which the Assembly is to adopt, is another very important legislative project that regulates in a unique way the issue of production and the quality of strong alcoholic beverages, while at the same time removing many of the shortcomings we had in the previous law. Serbia, with its geographical features, is the centuries-old and very birthplace of plums, apples, pears, and other fruit varieties, and if Serbia is viewed for what it is recognizable for sure, that one of the things, or one of the five things that makes Serbia known in the world, is certainly the production of fruit and the production of distillates that produce strong alcoholic beverages, which are very specific and high quality. Of course, to be quality, that question must be regulated in an appropriate way. Earlier, the area was governed by the 1994 Wine and Cancer Act, but many shortages of this law were observed, due to the application of common provisions on the production of wine and the production of brandy, so a special Act on Wine and the Act on Cancer and Other Alcoholic Drinks was adopted in 2009. However, this Cancer Act and other alcoholic beverages were not in line with EU rules on the division of alcoholic beverages to categories, registrations, geographical indications, age-related and declaration rules, as well as an inadequate solution to the issue of the production of fruit distilled natural persons. One of the legal solutions that affected the decline in production and the sale of alcoholic beverages in Serbia was the legal condition that any agricultural producer producing rakija more than its own needs must meet very harsh technological conditions, otherwise it could not legally place its fruit distillates on the market, so that a large number of natural persons, until then, decided not to register production in accordance with the law, because they were very unhappy with the conditions and costs necessary to do so in order to meet the conditions for production. First of all, I think of the cost of a constantly employed technologist, who couldn't be used, so to speak, in full-time work capacity for a long time, and it certainly didn't pay off. The result of such a law is that the number of producers, which was registered from some 2,000 to 400, has decreased. A significant part of the production was thus decommissioned in the gray zone, and large producers had to cut off years of co-operation with agricultural producers that baked quality distilled. So these are the problems that have been identified through the application of the still applicable 2004 Law. It is important to point out that this law that we are discussing today solves this problem and the law will be positively reflected in the primary production of fruit, which is basic raw materials, for the production of strong alcoholic beverages and will return a large part of the turnover of fruit fats to legal flows. It is also important to point out that this proposed law is in line with the Food Safety Act, which is very important, because the priority objective must be the health of the end-user. This law allows the consumer to have a quality and health-resistant product on the market. In addition, to achieve this objective, the law provides for ethyl alcohol, which is a basic compound, used in the production of strong alcoholic beverages, to be exclusively of agricultural origin. So no alcoholic drink must contain another type of alcohol of synthetic origin and that is a guarantee of what should be in line with food safety standards. Of course, we can't deal with it here, we've heard certain opinions about the harmfulness of alcohol and that there's a campaign to be run, that there's a lot of prevention in various areas about the harmfulness of alcohol, but, of course, neither this ministry nor this law should be dealt with. This law should deal with precisely the establishment of all regulations that will provide a proper and safe product for the market and in this sense protect consumers, which are health, education, education and others. But these are now other aspects, which should be routed when it comes to the use of alcohol elsewhere and in other spheres. We're here, if we've heard that, so I wouldn't be talking about the introduction of a register of manufacturers and alcoholic beverages, not to repeat myself, but the law also requires that some other records be kept, like the basement documentation that needs to give data on the purchase of raw materials, on production, on transport, on all the characteristics of raw materials, and this is an effective mechanism for controlling production when production is controlled. The law also provides for the division of categories and this is the quality of the paper of this law, the division of strong alcoholic beverages to categories is 47 we have heard, which is precisely, and in addition to the law there is, and they regulate the issue of the name, content, method of production, the percentage of alcohol that contains a high quality drink, quality and in this way the international standards that will allow our brands to be better placed and better placed on the international market, and so on and what we have said when it comes to compliance with the Food Safety Act. Of course, in addition to this clear division that speaks of both raw materials and quality, and what, from which can be produced a very alcoholic drink through clearly prescribed supervision and through criminal provisions, additional content, quality, respect for all standards in the process of production is provided, which is very important. So, in general, I think that, in the light of the above, there is an extremely high-quality legislative act governing the area of production of strong alcoholic beverages, removing all the shortcomings and problems identified in the application of the current law and harmonising our legislation, most importantly, with the legal assets of the EU, which gives a very important perspective in what innovation is in this area, because it will certainly speed up the development of what is the primary fruit production, the development of fruit production, etc., and on the other hand, gives the possibility of producing quality alcoholic beverages that can be very competitive and useful in terms of rejuvenation for us. When it comes to this second law, it is the Law on Confirmation of Protocols and Application Management with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. Just a few words in principle to say, he was signed by the Sava states in December 2002. It took effect in December 2004 along with a protocol on the navigation regime. This agreement is an expression of the consent of the Sava states, meaning Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia on co-operation to establish an international regime for water management, protection against the harmful influence of water, water regime and water ecosystems. The agreement provides for the adoption of several protocols to address specific issues relating to the Sava River Basin, and one of these issues is certainly also of great importance to the adoption of a protocol on application management in the Sava River Basin, which implies the procedure for co-operation of the Sava countries on these issues, monitoring the quality of application, exploitation of applications, the issue of ecosystem protection, the issue of pollution protection, etc. So here, with these few views that I have expressed here on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and with one satisfaction that the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment in this very difficult time when we are to work in all fields, is doing our best to carry out our part of the task, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38275	I thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38276	Alcoholism is a disease and there's no doubt about it and I understand the concerns of some colleagues who mentioned it, but it's definitely not the subject of this law. Of course, it should always point to the dangers that alcohol and many other things can affect life, above all, young people. But let's go back to what this law is about. This is a solid law that is a good part of EU practice and as such qualified for Mr Pavicevic and I to vote in favour of the law on the day of voting with several amendments, ten of which are the most important to Article 9 in a work that has nothing to do with technology but has more to do with the legal position. It says here that the data entered into the producer's register is made available to the public and that they are kept permanently. To be kept permanently, that's perfectly fine, but point 2 and point 3 that speaks of data on production, transport and supplies per year, or 3 of the distiller, etc., our opinion is that this should be accessible to the ministry, to the competent authorities, but not to the public, because that, if it were public, we would harm the business secret, and that putting them under some kind of official secrecy would not interfere with the conduct of the supervision that the ministry should do. So there absolutely should be a daily insight into how, who, what it produces from alcoholic beverages in Serbia, but it shouldn't be a public matter, because it hurts the business secret. As far as I'm concerned, it was one application in the task force that worked on this law. There are nine other amendments that should contribute to the overall quality of the law. I am glad to hear what we hear here and, above all, from the same people who were ten years ago when they were opponents of the EU, say that the EU is a devil organization that hates Serbs, so, well, it wants us to end and the right to make our own brandy, to bake brandy which, of course, I am not talking about you who represent the law, but about some of your colleagues. And it's good that we came out of that stereotype too, of course, that the production of alcoholic beverages is part of our tradition, but it's also, of course, and it needs to be codified and put into something that won't endanger life. It is very devastating information about a small number of employees, i.e. the inspector above all. You said that five thousand registered agricultural producers are coming to you on one employee and on the inspector, and that the European average of 200 if I have heard correctly and this says that it is undoubtedly necessary that the number of people who work and inspection jobs within your ministry must be much, much higher. I can give you a suggestion. Speaking here for days about increasing the number of municipal police officers in Belgrade, which is the perception of the largest number of Serbian citizens looks like a paramilitary formation with unclear competencies and with a very poor application of their force they use. May that number of 1,000 new municipal officers be replaced by 1,000 new inspectors, not only in your ministry, probably a lot, but there are plenty of places in Serbia's state administration inspection business, where there are people who need to control whether the laws are being implemented adequately. So the budget would not be reduced or increased, and I think the effects would be much, much better. So this is a good law. I expect you to look at our amendments and accept the interventions we have given with a desire to make the law better and it is good that the laws that follow what is happening from the government of Serbia, without much ambition, will change the business successes of the companies doing this job and the world market is much, full of products of similar purposes, so it won't be much easier, but it will be easier for all our producers, than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38277	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinovic is not in the hall. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38278	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear minister, dear guests, when my fellow winemaker supported the law, I am left with nothing but to support it myself, since it is a very good acquaintance of alcoholic beverages, one of the leading wine importers, although this is about strong drinks, but it is about wine to make a good wine. Grapes are made to make a good vine, from a mosquito, or from a comet of grapes to make a good comedian, it is even healing and it is obvious that in the last few days she has given some result, so I will agree that this law should be supported, since in the last few minutes we have had an expert on the link, therefore, in direct live transmission. Therefore, when a winemaker speaks so highly of the law, a member of the opposition, there is nothing left for me but to support it. As for plums and fruit, I'm about to process it into brandy, but before brandy, I think it should be processed in other ways. I would especially appreciate it if all together in the future of united certain problems in agriculture, most of these plums would dry, dry and sell in the way our ancestors did and thus create significant foreign exchange revenues. Thus, the export of dried plums was significant and almost filled one third of Serbia's budget, i.e. it occupied 25% of Serbian exports. Lately, the dried plum has been re-priced, dried fruit, dehydrated fruit, etc., should be what should be the ultimate product of quality fruit, the highest quality that can be re-sold as dry after the sale. The other thing is that after that, through compotes, sweet, etc., a large part of that fruit should be processed into marmalades, jams, etc., and that what remains goes into brandy, as our peasants say in martyrs, that nothing is thrown away in such a way, and that fruit production is maximumly extracted through the processing industry, and that what needs to be financed not only by agricultural holdings, but rather by the one who deals with the processing, that this business is paid for, and that they employ a significant number of workers, and that this production is done as close as possible to the village, in order to keep a certain number of inhabitants in such a way, so that our territories do not become empty in the future. The importance of this fruit is multiple, and as far as brandy and wine are concerned, what our producers need to know is that natural persons, i.e. agricultural holdings that do not produce it for their own purposes, have no changed conditions, but if they put it on sale and traffic, in such situations they must register as producers of alcoholic beverages, in order to be able to participate smoothly in the traffic. This provision is, above all, to avoid endangering other people’s health, and if you produce for your own use, in this case you have no problem with the production of brandy, or with various types of brandy obtained from fruits and grapes. I think it should also be said that the individuals who do so within their own land, when that drink is served by others, that it is not considered traffic, so that they can uninterruptedly make weddings, celebrate celebrations, uninterruptedly and drink to someone else's soul after the funeral, although, after the rule of the former regime, the funerals have become numerous, not because of the regrets of the dead, but because it is an opportunity for people to eat and often after the rule of the party of the former regime at the funerals of people do not even ask who died, but what they have for food. What is happening is the product, first of all, of some previous rule, general devasting, economic devastation of our country, and I think that our natural persons dealing with the production of brandy should certainly know that as far as the needs of their land are concerned and that what they drink on their land has no problem at all with production, nor with the marking of various traditions, customs, so I have already said – fame, joy and, God forbid, funeral. I think we should make sure that the brandy is the last product we produce in the future. I think we should invest more in agriculture, but also, I think we've invested a few billion in agriculture in the last ten years, and we haven't produced a significant result. Therefore, in the future, given that the Minister of Agriculture is there, all of us need to put together a small amount of funds that we have, and for such a poor country, it is not small, because it is 250 to 300 million euros a year, so when you take it, in the last five years we have invested a billion and a half, when you pass through Serbia, we do not have any impression that we have done anything great, that future funds are placed as much in projects as possible, so that these projects are made of something significant, to produce some production in fruits, vegetables, to raise the production of processed fruit, and thus to raise the rakia, which can play a significant role in certain markets, i.e. to demand drinks, given that the quality of our fruit and rakia of fruit is very well known to those who have tried it. I think if we perform more offensively outside, that we can make a good result on the production of brandy. In any case, I am one of those who advocates reviving the state of Serbia, for Serbia to be a country of fields and plums, boys and girls, workers and peasants again, and to abandon some of the values and combinations that were former regime decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38279	Thank you. National MP Balsa Bozovic is not here. The MP Dusan Milisavljevic is not here. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38280	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have held in principle today that this Law on Strong Alcohol Drinks should also be supported by a colleague who spoke on behalf of the SDS-ZZS-ZS Group, who made such an unequivocal point. Our support for the law is not questionable because of the arguments we have already presented. What is very important for the Social Democratic Party, for Green Serbia and for the Together for Serbia is that, in that part of the debate on amendments, we want to point out, above all, the potential threat to the health of the population and these individual producers, as we call them. Of course it's not a proper name, but we know who we think and insist on the need to protect the population through the possibility of controlling that product. This is much more important to us from a health aspect than from a market point of view, it has almost ignored it in some global market scales, but in view of the possible consequences for the health of the population and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this can be a very interesting issue and can be, unfortunately, very devastating because we have in the past had consequences that have occurred amid the inadequate or poor characteristics of these strong alcoholic beverages, on the one hand. On the other hand, of course, if Green Serbia should be made known about this, we may also be ready to propose that the cost of the state is done, in a way, for the benefit of the citizens and for the cost of the state to know about the quality of these drinks and to protect the citizens in the right way. What is more interesting to me in this principle debate, which is the proposal that lies ahead of us - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Application Management with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. Given previous support, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia will also support the bill. There are several very important parts in this Protocol that are interesting to us. One of the most important may be in the part where the application is referred to as a natural resource. We think that, in the right management of the environment, it is important to characterise environmental areas as a natural resource. The natural resource that has its value, which has its natural capital and only in this way can we treat it in an economically acceptable way, on the one hand, but also consider all possibilities for environmental impacts. At the beginning of this Protocol on Application Management, in the part where the principles of sustainable application management are discussed, these characteristics are very important to take care of natural processes, to take care of this water regime, to recognise the application of its quality and quantity as a resource. This is a key sentence for Green Serbia and, of course, to try to ensure a balance between socio-economic values and the value of application from the environmental aspect, planning and preparing measures to reduce upstream and downstream impacts by providing integrated solutions for water, application, soil, groundwater and, of course, by working to improve co-operation with different stakeholders. In a piece that seems to me to have been the most problematic in the past, perhaps not when managing the Sava River Basin, given how much, when it comes to the Great Morava plum, application management and application extraction. It seems to us, and right now, I have talked about it in some other legal proposals, if we had wild gravel diggers that don't do it under the auspices of the state, or they don't do it under the supervision of the state, and the real problems we have in the valley of the Great Morava would be very devastating to report in the management of the Sava River Basin, and perhaps for the citizens who follow this debate we just remind ourselves of which rivers are thought when we talk about the Sava River Basin and when we talk about the management of the Sava River Basin, above all: Drina, Lim, Uvac, Bosut and the Kolubara River. It seems to me that for the citizens of western Serbia, the most important river of Kolubara, since it has created problems in the last few years, swimming both Valjevo and all cities downstream to Obrenovac. It has to do with both application and application management and wild gravel diggers. Pebble in the Kolubara Basin is a bit of a lower quality than gravel in Velika Morava, so it may be a better environment for citizens between Valjev and Obrenovac, but we really think it is good to define that the parties involved in the extraction of applications can only do so for the purpose of maintaining and bagging for the purpose of remediating the environment, that the economic extraction of applications is allowed only in certain areas and that the extraction of applications can only be carried out by an authorised person in accordance with national legislation. The parties involved, you said there was the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. What's very important in this whole application story is the planned application extraction, and it's very important in the right way to define those locations and the type of application extraction. First of all, an assessment of the quantity and quality of application taken from the Sava River and its main tributaries is included. In this case, at least lay visually, watching the Drina River from Pavlovic Bridge looks very chaotic. I don't know if it's an observation, on my part, correct, but believe me, it looks very, very worrying when it looks at everyone from Pavlovic Bridge, as well as how it bags gravel in the Drina River. What's very important is that we postpone the application, given that we have ash dumps, dumps of different dangerous substances in the Sava River Basin and in the part of the Kolubara Basin, we need to know what we're going to do in case this application is found in the Sava River, and it has the characteristics of hazardous waste. Where are we gonna put this junk off and what are we gonna do with it? In Article 9(v), we have a procedure with application in case it is polluted. It's a good thing the Sava Commission works. In recent years, I have been partially familiar with the work of the Sava Commission. People who work in the Sava Commission, people who, if I'm not mistaken, are involved in international co-operation, when it comes to water and water management of the Sava River, do their jobs very well, and that gives us hope that we are slowly starting to edit one system at a time. What is very interesting for our parliamentary group – SDP, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, of course, are joint research and development. Again, we feel that by exchanging goods and material and immaterial, perhaps more of those scientific ones, we can contribute to better governance in the Sava River Basin. This time, it says it unequivocally in a comment – budget funds are planned. They must be planned and we support you here. We do not like to talk demagoguely about savings, and in particular Green Serbia thinks that saving is not an answer to the crisis. When we talk about application, we have here a category that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced in the last few months, which is the exploitation of industrial waste. In this case, I mean the ash dumps that are between 200-300 million tonnes in the Republic of Serbia, which should be used before this natural resource we're talking about. In this case, sand is dominant and gravel in one piece. There is a way to replace, there is a way that some other measures, not by saving, speed up economy and it turns out that the best saving is to invest in new jobs and in jobs that use the environment in a sustainable and green way without creating large or, I say, creating the least of the bad things in the environment. Of course, there is also this "mutatis – mutandis", we hope that this will not mean that, to say this law is accepted, since it changes everything that is necessary to change. I hope that the most important part, what needs to be changed, is that there will be no surprises and that by supporting this bill we actually support what we see and what we read, and that this clause will not have some others that were necessary to change, so they find themselves in some version that we didn't vote for. Of course, this is just one protocol or only one part of the directive regarding activities in the field of governance policy, water policy, we will have a lot more to talk about when we adopt laws that are, to say not ambiguous, but for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You can expect our support, but like every time we think some laws aren't good enough, you'll have no backup, no compromise criticism. I thank you, once again, and I hope that by the new year we will have many more environmental laws and that we will have a controversy unlike this peaceful debate that we are attending today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38281	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38282	I would like to point out at the outset that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks and the Law on Confirmation of Application Management Protocols under the Framework Agreement in the Sava River Basin. The creation of a new Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, has been approached due to the importance of producing strong alcoholic beverages, primarily fruit brandy has to develop the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. In the process of preparing the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, it held a public debate involving representatives of producers of strong alcoholic beverages, their associations. The result is the bill we're discussing today. The proposed law creates conditions for the gradual adaptation of domestic producers in conditions that apply to the EU and represents a major step towards harmonising the production of strong alcoholic beverages in Serbia with the EU's common agricultural policy. The harmonisation of this law with EU legislation enables protection against counterfeits, prevents the transport of non-registered manufacturers, establishes a database on manufacturers, the production and quality of strong alcoholic beverages, and, as you said, the European Commission has given the highest marks on this bill. The law on strong alcoholic beverages regulates production, geographical labelling, quality, description, presentation and transport of strong alcoholic beverages, as well as other issues of importance for strong alcoholic beverages. The solutions proposed by the new law lead to a reduction in production costs, a rise in manufacturer's competitiveness, an increase in production and quality, thus exporting strong alcoholic beverages from Serbia. Article 8 of this Act stipulates that the production of strong alcoholic beverages may be carried out by a legal person or undertaking registered in the register of economic operators, or another register in accordance with a special regulation entered in the register of producers of strong alcoholic beverages, which is headed by the Ministry of Agriculture's competent authorities. Also, there's a way to get into that register. Individual rakia producers, which are not subject to the applicable law, but have them in life and practice, will be legalized by a new law. The law should primarily reduce the gray market and increase the safety and control of strong alcoholic beverages. The new provisions are aimed at simplifying the rules for the registration of manufacturers and the production of strong alcoholic beverages, and the aim is to reduce the level of the gray economy, increase the number of registered producers, with maximum respect for the safety and quality of products. The new law will allow farmers to sell excess brandy legally to registered producers. They will also pay taxes and excise taxes. In particular, the new law will allow citizens to sell excess distillers through contractual relations to registered producers for further processing and processing. For natural persons, this will be a significant choice of income and a possibility for better use of their own resources, in the extreme line these legal solutions aim at a more intensive and even development of the village. I would point out that exports of brandy from Serbia are insufficient compared to annual production and high quality. For example, plums are most exported to Montenegro, the United States, BiH, Canada, Switzerland and Australia, followed by other countries. Other fruit brandy are placed in Montenegro, Russia, BiH, the United States and Switzerland. Special brandy is most exported to BiH. Dear MPs, alcoholic beverages are defined according to EU categories. The introduction of a category of strong alcoholic beverages with clearly defined raw materials, mode of production and registration in the register of producers of strong alcoholic beverages prevents the presence of suspicious qualities on the market. The law establishes procedures that allow the monitoring of all routes of alcohol and control from production to packaging of finished products, guaranteeing origin and quality. One of the most important changes concerns the geographical indication of alcoholic beverages defined by European criteria. The adoption of this law will allow for a unique, simple, transparent way of protecting the geographical indications of strong alcoholic beverages. This will condition the emergence of new operators, a certification body in production control and a quality with a geographical indication. The law regulates the registration process and its use, protecting intellectual property in this area and allowing additional value to strong alcoholic beverages. The geographical indication of origin guarantees an advantage to its user in relation to competition in a commercial game, a product marked by a geographical geographical indication of geographical origin, consumers consider to be a product of specific quality which other products of this kind do not possess. In the last 10 years, no geographical indication of brandy has been protected, nor is it in traffic. The reasons for this lie in part and in the complicated procedure of protecting the geographical indications, but also in the underdeveloped awareness of the advantages of association and of the benefits they receive on the market in relation to the same products, without geographical indication. Such products make it easier to find a way to the customer, although they have a higher price because there is a standardized and guaranteed quality behind them. The protection of geographical indications implies certain costs, but they are justified by the positive effects. The law is also expected to affect the association of producers around the geographical mark, so that they can use the geographical code. Under the current law, there are six registered producers of brandy with a geographical code of origin in Serbia at the moment, where they are mainly plums, ciders and peaches. All of them are to protect their product as an individual geographical mark and as such exclusively and only they can put brandy with a geographical label on the market. The law creates conditions that the system of individual protection of geographical indications can be replaced by a collective which will be of general character, will refer to a particular locality, a region where rakia is produced in a traditional way. Serbia is the only way it can get in the quantity and quality of the product that will allow Serbian brandy to become known in the world as a national brand. The provisions of this law are in line with the provisions of the Food Safety Act, which also applies to the strong alcohol sector. In fact, care for the health of end-users must be a priority, which will be made possible through the applicable provisions of this law, as the consumer on the market will have a quality, healthy and safe product. This is particularly important if we take into account the fact that it was not a rare poisoning with broken rakia, which resulted in a serious health threat, and even fatal outcomes. Respected MPs were registered around 2,000 manufacturers, economic operators and natural persons until the adoption of the Cancer Act and other alcoholic beverages in Serbia. Unfortunately, after the law was passed, the number of registered producers decreased to 369, of which 25% are enterprises, while 75% are entrepreneurs from craft production. According to data from the register of brandy producers and other alcoholic beverages, the total annual production is about 12 million litres of alcoholic beverages. Given that the data provided by the Republic Institute for Statistics on the production of strong alcoholic beverages in the Republic of Serbia are much higher and about 80 million liters are moving annually, it is clear that a large quantity of strong alcoholic beverages is produced by non-registered producers. According to the manufacturer, if they were to comply with the provisions of the applicable law which are extremely unstimulative costs of only one litre of brandy, which includes technology services, excise stamps, tax, accountants, they would reach a figure of over 450 dinars and thus would not be competitive. The producers themselves point out that the applicable Cancer Act and other alcoholic beverages actually contributed to the appearance of liquor purchases on black. Under this 2009 law, the production of natural persons was not covered, so it remained out of legal controlled flows. Registered producers also point out that an excise policy should be amended, which is not the subject of this law, as it takes £13 to export a litre of brandy to England, while the excise duty on imports of whiskey into our country is only one euro. Dear People's MPs, Serbia is known as a country of plums and extremely high quality Sljevivica, and the highest quality plum rakija is produced in the western part of Serbia from indigenous varieties of plums "burners" and "red ranches". The eastern Serbia is dominated by the special rakia "gravarica", "novaca", "menta", while more and more fruit rakia are produced in Vojvodina and mostly grape rakia are represented. How well the Serbian Sljevivica is known also says that at the time of prohibition in America she was ranked with whiskey and cognac at the price and quality. From this, we conclude that Serbian rock brands deserve a much better position on the domestic and foreign markets. We are convinced that this law will contribute to the stimulation of both small and large producers to produce quality fruit brandy with a geographical indication and thus become even more famous and recognizable. Another quality of this law that I would like to point out is a drastic reduction in the costs of producers of strong alcoholic beverages, which will certainly contribute to increasing the production and production of brandy and other alcoholic beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38283	The word is Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38284	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is our pleasure today to listen to very high-quality discussions on the Proposal for a Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks for the simple reason that we, as a national representative, are talking about a very well-balanced law that has come to the heart of all the producers of alcoholic beverages in the Republic of Serbia. This balance is just reflected in the fact that all the fears that our farmers, honest and hardworking producers have had of Serbia's entry into the EU that they will not be able to bake brandy in a traditional way, as they have done for centuries, this law has definitely driven away all the praises of both the working group and the ministry and the government in such a well-balanced law. Why is he well balanced? Just as we will preserve the tradition and economic aspects of our small producers that are extremely important to us and they will be able to share the part that is uninterrupted and future for their personal needs in the way they have done so far to produce, consume and use their own personal consumption. Further step, if there are market surpluses, the law also recognises in the next step the producer of strong alcoholic beverages which must be registered and comply with all the positive legal regulations in the part of quality and health, which is followed by other laws, this part of the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks. Of course, in the part of fruit production and how it will encourage and encourage new plantings. As we have heard, the most in the state of Serbia is present, and over the past years we have witnessed that and that according to Vojvodina, in particular, there is nothing new plantings of various other fruits and vineyards in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, all of which are raw materials for the production of strong alcoholic beverages. Of course, there is one important note in the law, which is that all these provisions, that I do not list them in order, are in line with EU laws, which means that in the end every manufacturer registered in RS will be able to export products to the EU market, which tells us the data on geographical origin, the harmonisation of the quality system and everything that follows the other products that are to be found on the EU market. And how important it is, and we can expect that by passing this law, we can expect a significant part of the reduction of the grey economy and the increase in the regular turnover of strong alcoholic beverages. It is known that we are absolutely fighting for the full legality and promotion of all kinds of production, both for the benefit of all our producers and for all of that, and for the benefit of the state of Serbia through the total GDP. It is very important to point out that all small producers will not be able to, or all small producers will not be able to enter the big game in terms of exports, and therefore will be the next step, which is likely to be the second law, we expect very quickly and the cooperative law, that by association of small cooperative producers will be able to register the production of strong alcoholic beverages very easily and thus reduce the costs for all those who follow and have so far been significantly higher by the previous law and certainly the quality of this law, which also reduces the costs and registration itself. To us, agriculture is the main export chance, agriculture is certainly in one of the most important places in our future at all, and I think this is a good example of this law so that we should and follow the example of this law with the following laws exactly that all of the advantages that we have as a state and all of what we know as a people, all of what our valuable agricultural producers are able to make, and in the world market all of these products that we have in the area of our entire Republic, and I think it's one big chance that in future laws, that are edit other areas of production, that we stick to this principle, to keep what is characteristic, what we know to do, what we can do, what we can do. There's no need for us to invent something we don't know, and on the other hand, with the application of modern world technologies, to start with primary production, and here we're talking about primary production and a high level of processing where we get and how expensive products are. Now let's not add up to 100 kg of fruit we can get as much brandy, so when we compare very clearly we're going to calculate, especially when we have a geographical origin, how much this can increase the overall GDP of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, for every commendation and hope that we will all have, and most of all our agricultural producers that are most important to us and for them in this House, I will personally and my colleagues always fight to protect our agricultural producers through quality legal proposals, to be stimulated and to fight for as large as possible, the better the agricultural budget and to move forward. Secondly, on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Application Management Protocol under the Sava River Basin Dispute6azum, I can only say that it is quality and professionally done, that the proposal clearly covered all aspects of this specific act and in the Day for the vote of my colleague and I from the SNS will support both of these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38285	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, finally one representative of the Government in this National Assembly for the first time, I think, for these years and seven months defends a very good bill, gentlemen. It is a bill that is tightened, clear, precise, logical and I am sorry, gentlemen, which in this year and seven months only now for the first time one MP of the opposition can comment on a bill like this. I'm sorry for part of it, gentlemen, and for being a good part of the debate until now has been directed to the question of whether anyone can bake a brandy privately, whether they can't or can't. Well, I think anyone who's read this bill is clear. But here I am, as a man who performs here on behalf of the opposition, to tell the hosts in Serbia, and also to the housewives, that they are allowed to bake normal and legal brandy for their soul and that there is no dilemma about it. Then, gentlemen, despite the fact that the bill's assessment is as I've said it, I have three notes. These three notes concern such additional precision. As long as we have a good law, Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, let's make it the best possible. Mr. Zivkovic has already set one criterion on the basis of which we measured the content of this law. This is a criterion for market economy, competition, competition rules, etc. We believe, Mrs Bošković Bogosavljevic, for example, that data on production, traffic in stock per year and on the supplier of agricultural distillery should not be made available to the public because it is sensitive business secrets of the producer of strong alcoholic beverages. We add two more things to this attitude, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic. One thing is - it is not justified by our court that producers of strong alcoholic beverages have an insight into the data on quantities produced and sold, and the state of supply. Why would we allow that? Secondly, we believe that producers of strong alcoholic beverages can lose a competitive advantage on the market if their sensitive business data are made public. We've intervened with the amendment. My suggestion is that you read our amendments, at least as carefully as we read your bill proposals, and if you accept our argument, accept our amendments. The second note, gentlemen, concerns compliance with other laws. In the part where they regulate geographical indications, they are art. 14th to 29th, I see now a joy with our guests here when we have such a thorough, serious debate about one bill, bravo and therefore, in the part in which it regulates geographical codes of the bill, it seems to us, not complete, because it does not contain all the provisions contained in the Code of Geographical Origin, and we believe it should contain. Here's what's missing - the contents of Sections 7, 10 and 11. Mrs Bošković Bogosavljevic, we believe, for the sake of precision, for the very great principle that we are mostly calling upon here, which is the principle of the rule of law, so that it would be good for you to read carefully these amendments that concern this part, to respect our argument and to accept our amendments. The third note, gentlemen, is due to this law. Mrs Bošković Bogosavljevic and, of course, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, a provision that requires that the geographical code should not be translated, in our court, is inapplicable to strong alcoholic beverages, for example. exports, because when declaring them, we consider it to be a geographical code in a language which is in use on the market on which a very alcoholic drink is exported. It seems to us that it would be good, it may not be necessary, but that it would be good, that the law would be the best, that this suggestion of ours, I think, would be substantial. As you can see, this time, at least in speech, we have not responded to language and as far as the language of the law is concerned, we are satisfied this time, but I ask you to pay attention to our amendments, which are absolutely substantial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38287	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38288	Thank you. First of all, I want to express my satisfaction and satisfaction to my associates that the debate has passed in this tone. This is just a confirmation of the great agreement between us that it is an extremely high-quality law and that those questions and those suggestions that have been heard here are indeed the most sincere, most well-meaning and in this sense, in the end, I can promise MP Pavicevic that we will read all the proposed amendments with attention, with attention analyzed, because we really understand the good intentions. Our goal is to get 10 plus with that ten that we got from the European Commission. Now I just want to take a brief look at some of the questions asked by MPs before Mr Pavicevic. Of course, I would like to say that there will be a brief review, and that I expect that in the day to discuss the amendments and on these individual questions we will give extensively all the answers, so that it will be clear to everyone what is at the most possible, and above all, to make it clear to our producers who are life-interesting in this law as well as to all of us. That is why I will only briefly look back at some of the debates of the MPs. First of all, Mr Marinkovic of the DS parliamentary group pointed out, with all these commendations, the question why the law does not foresee the control of the production that is intended for the manufacturer's own needs. Simply and simply, we are tasked with caring for the health safety of goods that have the character of goods, which is found on the market and which is intended for consumers on the market. We cannot enter our own and our own production of each individual manufacturer, a natural person who does not want that product further placed. He produces for himself, for his family, for his guests, because if we enter into such an obligation to control what he will offer to his family, to his guests, we should, on the same principle, control the production of jam, sweet, ajvar and so on. It's simple and simple to know what this law predicts and what it can't, because it doesn't comply with what's in the spirit of the law. Mr Marinkovic, and some MPs before him, I think, Mr Arpad, has asked the question of deadlines, why it is a deadline for accepting the protection of the geographical code for a year, why we have set such a long deadline for this job that will be in the power of the ministry. We've set a deadline of up to a year, which means this deadline can be shorter. If the request is complete, if there is agreement of all those who are interested in the geographical origin of brandy in one area, the locality, then there is no reason to be a year old, then the whole job will be completed in a month. However, in a situation where we have different opinions, when we have opposing ideas, we must gradually and slowly resolve the issue of protection of the geographical indication, since it will no longer be individual property, it is now collectively owned by a large group of producers from a particular area. It is our interest that the public be fully aware, that we hear different opinions and that we make one of these different opinions that will be acceptable to all potential actors and participants in the production of a product with a geographical indication, because practically this label is obtained once and for all, for a period that follows in front of all these producers. This is why we determine up to a year and we estimate that in such cases, which for us will not be simple, enough for a year to round this whole process and simply all dilemmas, inconceivably, to reason with our producers, and everyone is important to us in this area, to get clear, to be mediators, and to come up with an acceptable solution for everyone. As for Mr Milisavljevic of the DS parliamentary group, he discussed whether we needed the Alcohol Drinks Act or not at all about alcoholic beverages. Now, for the sake of the public and your MPs, I must say that the question of the harmfulness of the consumption of alcoholic beverages, the question of the level that is allowed and which is not harmful is indeed a question for another profession. I agree that this question is primarily health workers, it is quite clear, but it is clear to all of us that on all meridians through history, through centuries and centuries behind us, at all levels in terms of social status, from those poorest layers to those of the richest, is consumed alcoholic beverages. Health professionals should say whether it's harmful or not, to what extent it's harmful and in which it's not. As they say, the cure is only at a certain dose, and as soon as it crosses that particular dose, it is no longer a cure, it is a poison. So we don't deal with that problem and that question. We deal with the quality and health safety of products found in shops, on trade shelves, which is available to our consumer. This product must be health-resistant, quality and that is our task, that what is found in legal sales flows is absolutely safe for our consumers, our citizens. As far as Ivan Karic's remarks are concerned, there are no objections, there are more comments and suggestions in the sense that the law is good, but it can always be better. Right? You said it would be convenient and good for the state to help in a material sense, to finance analysis of the quality of alcoholic beverages found in the sale. I have to say that we already have a rule that we finance, or regress part of the money spent to control the quality. That rule, for non-geo-labelled alcoholic beverages, provides for 40-55% of the cost to be subsidized for five samples over the year. In the case of alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication, the subsidy is greater, the return of spent quality control is between 50% and 60% and in those cases we subsidize the analysis for 10 samples. Of course, we accept your suggestion that there is always more and more significant subsidies, but you know, as we heard earlier and from fellow MPs, there is always little resources compared to what we would like to support, to subsidize and help. We are simply trying to identify for each branch of agricultural production, for each sector a certain amount of funds, or as much as we can do and how much it is available to us. In any case, I would like to thank Ambassador Karic for the opportunity for our viewers, our MPs to be once again well informed about the protocol that is also important, about the protocol that we are adopting today in the form of the Law on Application Management in the Framework Basin of the Sava River. So, a protocol that means common cross-border, regional co-operation for good water flow management in order to protect natural resources. With your presentation, you helped us, too, to say so, to present this protocol in the right way to our public, and I thank you for that. I thank all the MPs who have participated in the debate so far, and I thank those who will take part in the session. I expect us to discuss the amendments as well on Thursday, when there is a debate in particular. Once again, I promise great attention and willingness that all that is in the amendment is essential, which is good, which is quality, and we accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38289	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. The next word is Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38290	The esteemed presidents, ministers, fellow MPs, sales and production of alcoholic beverages so far have not been clearly defined, and the registration of alcoholic drink producers has been very expensive and has required compliance with the criteria which were unreachable to small producers. According to the 2012 census, the production of fruit in Serbia dealt with 295,203 owners. In Serbia, there are 400 registered producers of brandy and other alcoholic beverages, whose total annual production is about 12 million litres. The production of strong alcoholic beverages in the Republic of Serbia is much higher than mentioned and is moving about 80 million liters annually. It is clear that a large quantity of strong alcoholic beverages are produced by persons who are not registered producers and end up, of course, in the gray zone. It's just one of the reasons why it was necessary to pass this law. Under the 2009 law, which regulates this area, there is no mechanism for the production of a natural person to be found in legally controlled flows. This law allowed the traffic of rakija in a grizzly state only between registered producers. Thus, a large number of natural persons, who rakija produce for their own needs, remained out of the legal system and without being able to legally sell to registered producers in situations where their production exceeds its own needs. This was a large generator of the gray market for fruit distillates, and thus the abuse of which we witnessed in previous years. I shall state briefly the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Alcoholic Drinks and, of course, the reasons why this law should be supported. This is primarily consumer safety, because it is the most important concern for consumer health that will have a quality and healthy correct product. Then, the reduction of the costs of registration, the introduction into the legal flows of small producers and the possibility of selling their product. Next, the preservation of traditional production of brandy, the acquisition of geographical origin, the accumulation of the manufacturing sector, the merger and the concentration of production, as well as compliance with EU rules, thus facilitating the placing of alcoholic beverages on the EU market. Harmonisation with the instruments and criteria of the EU's common agricultural policy creates conditions for the gradual adaptation of domestic producers to the conditions applicable to the EU. Of course, this prepares domestic production for upcoming EU membership. This implies enabling natural persons to place surpluses from their own production on the market, but not directly, but through registered alcoholic drink producers that will use fruit distillates for further production. These changes create preconditions for the further development of the strong alcoholic beverages industry, as they apply the same categories and methods of declaration as in the EU, which is very important, both for the development of the export-oriented domestic sector and for potential investments. The production of strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication is of benefit to the manufacturer himself in his appearance on the market. Such products are easier to find their way to the customer even though they have a higher price, because they stand for one standardized and guaranteed quality and manufacturers opt for their production, regardless of the costs it causes. Alcoholic drink with geographical indication is a product with a higher value than other products of the same category. By passing this law, we can best be able to improve and present the production and transport of strong alcoholic beverages as a well-organised and controlled continent resulting in quality and safety products. The lower cost of production will make domestic producers competitive compared to EU producers, allowing easier exports of strong alcoholic beverages produced in the Republic of Serbia and market performance. Although my colleagues have already mentioned it, I will say once again that the compliance of this law with EU legislation enables protection from counterfeits, prevents the traffic of non-registered manufacturers from establishing a database on manufacturers, the production and quality of strong alcoholic beverages. This law represents a significant incentive for the development of the village, but also for the protection of small agricultural producers, and therefore I call on all colleagues to hold this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38291	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38292	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers of Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, with associates, dear colleagues, MPs and MPs, I will talk about the Law of Strong Alcoholic Drinks. The new law on strong alcoholic beverages will bring legislation in Serbia to EU rules and allow farmers to sell excess alcoholic beverages legally to registered producers, as well as enable farmers to use relatively simple conditions and low fruit processing costs in brandy, which is extremely important for Serbia in which the production of brandy has a centuries-old tradition. If the contractual relationship of excess distillates sells to registered producers for further processing and processing. A new law on strong alcoholic beverages has been introduced because of the importance that the production of strong alcoholic beverages primarily has for the development of Serbia's agriculture, as well as its impact on the development of primary fruit production. The adoption of the law, among other things, regulates the production and quality of strong alcoholic beverages in a unique way as regards the very definitions of strong alcoholic beverages, their divisions and geographical indications, as well as the categories, declarations, ageing. All solutions proposed by the new law lead to a reduction in production costs, a rise in producer competitiveness, an increase in production and quality, and thus exports of strong alcoholic beverages from Serbia. The area from which I come, Mladnjevac and the environment, is very rich with fruit cultures and in which it is traditionally and in a wider range of widespread fruit processing and is particularly important processing of fruit in brandy and wine. Out of the inability to find the placements of their products, especially fruit because of the inadequate price or overindulgence of the domestic market, rural households are mainly determined to make their fruit products into brandy. It has already become a tradition and I am free to say a cult of life in a village with a slightly competitive character, which my grades of well-roasted rakija have won on our celebrations with which we are not really missing. The inability to carry out its art and enormous satisfaction accompanied by the association and joint lying of the first droplets and materialize because of the strict legal frameworks has greatly contributed to this not being the reason for the return to the country and the continuation of the centuries-old tradition that adorns the Serbian peasant. The barns full of barrels, smokers, vines, dunes, cherries and above all recognizable plums couldn't easily have easily gotten to the customers. Prominented by many legal obstacles directly affecting the weakening of the economic power of every rural household in Serbia, its development and strengthening, and thus directly affecting the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. The centuries-old tradition of rakija production in Serbia and its quality, recognizable and very demanding and far beyond the borders of our country, will, after the adoption of this law, find the way to the end users in a far simpler and easier way. I think that's exactly what we really need to produce exactly what the real Serbian brand is, what they recognize us for in the world, what our great-grandfathers have long ago, are free to say, graduate and doctorate and what has entered the world textbooks. Like this law, which I have no doubt will be in place very quickly, we should also make other legislations, mostly related to the village and peasants, adapt and simplify to make life, production and remaining in the country as interesting and cost-effective as possible, and thus remove the enormous burden of unemployment and pressure on cities, especially public sector employment, which I hope will be less and less due to the overall development of the country in the future. This legal framework is one of the good ways to help the village and the peasant and in which we must never stop, so that it definitely does not relax, impoverish and run out of population, and the village will, as always and when it has been most difficult for us, know that, multiple returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38293	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38294	A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a proposal for a Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks. Alcohol is as dangerous as drugs, tobacco, and others to drink. Until recently, hot drinks, brandy, liqueur, and brandy, cognac, as well as wine from the same group of strong alcoholic beverages, were thought to be. However, if we go back a little bit to the past, we will remember many poisonings from different sugarcanes. This showed how and how much methyl alcohol can be dangerous to people’s lives and health. Since our country is defined for EU entry, we need to understand that the production of strong alcoholic beverages, especially brandy, must be strictly controlled, and this will be done precisely by this law. Also, this substance will be regulated by enrolment in the register of producers of strong alcoholic beverages. All of this could not be realised without the necessary financial resources provided by the resolution ministry. I strongly support this law, given the fact that so far everyone could produce brandy and if it says that there were 2,048 producers registered of which only 237 business entities, the rest being individual producers. It is known that even after the law was passed, there will be a production of wild brandy in so-called "wild." rural areas, especially plums, but these would be lonely cases in relation to the state before the law is passed. The reminders work, we have the largest number of plum trees per capita, or close to 40 million pieces, although the number of trees from year to year decreases because of the demographic situation and the reduction of the working population. The new law will not be a mere registration of agricultural households but is a registered household for production having a fully rounded technological process for producing strong alcoholic beverages. Otherwise, the law is fully in line with the EU's regulation on the production and transport of strong alcoholic beverages, which is essential since our country is a candidate for EU membership. From everything I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this bill because it will introduce order into this matter that has always been on the margins, which is why many innocent people have lost their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38295	Thank you, Mrs. Simic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38296	I thank the chairman. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrlig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis and I will talk about the law on alcoholic beverages. The area in the production of alcoholic beverages was regulated by the 1994 Wine and Cancer Act, but during the application of the Law it proved to be a lot of disadvantages, so in 2009, a new law was passed, which was still insufficiently agreed, so we are now passing this bill and I am sure that we will adopt it, because this bill gives great opportunity to our agricultural landowners who are dealing with the production of plums, and we all know that from our Serbian plums, we all know how many of our agricultural producers are dealing with the production of plums and other fruit trees, and we all know that we have mentioned it so far, in Serbia we have 255,000 people, or agricultural land, who are producing plums or other fruit trees. This law provides an opportunity in relation to the previous law which will have a great opportunity and a great chance that those of our agricultural producers, people who are concerned with the production of plums, cherry or other fruit, will have the opportunity when they produce their brandy, all of their surpluses that cannot be used for their household, for fame, for friends and for all others, they will have the opportunity to hand over their market surplus to a natural entity that works for the production of rakia, which is now a much better proposal than it was in the previous period, because there will now be much less costs for these economic operators to distill alcohol or make rakia. This way, now there will be no need for you to have so many rooms with people who will be constantly employed, with technologists. They'll have it here, too, of course. It puts a great accent on cleanliness, on the chemical composition, on everything that's important, but there's no need for any of these economic operators to work anymore, and there's got to be a technologist, a man who's an expert. The possibility of being a technologist who does not have to be in a working relationship, can be under the contract of work, can enter into a contract with some people, and in this way it will be possible that these people, or economic operators who have issued these means for technologists, for objects that have been unable to maintain, even most of these objects have been out of function, will now have greater opportunities through this law, an increase in the number of these businesses that will work on the production of brandy, which will have the opportunity to buy out rakium from our agricultural land. We all know that our farmer, our peasant, wants to fill his budget in every way, because we all know what a difficult situation our economy is. I will always, as a national MP in front of the United Peasant Party and as a man who has been elected from the SNS list, support the proposals of the Government and our Prime Minister Vukic, with the Secretary-General, Mrs Snowman, because I am sure that both this law and the previous laws, and also the future laws, we will see that more things are put in place, that we no longer fear our people with EU laws, when our agricultural producers who deal with the production of our traditional rakija, our traditional drink, in a traditional way, will no longer have the right to do – now we see that this law is more liberal, that this law gives greater opportunity and that this law gives them to our masters. We said there were 255,000 people, i.e. landowners, who are registered and who are involved in the production of brandy. They will also have the opportunity to protect geographical origin here, and all this will make it much easier to work than it was in the previous law. There's a great chance, and I'd like to invite the competent ministry and your minister and colleagues to put an accent on the cooperative. A little while ago, my colleague said that every distillery, every rakija production, where we have one legal entity, one owner or more of them, for us who come, for example, from the Svrlig municipality, this southeast of Serbia, is a great chance to contribute through cooperatives, through a cooperative kind of production, where a greater number of our agricultural owners will form a cooperative that will later in their work make their own distillation and where they will have the possibility that all our agricultural producers, these people who produce our plums, the cherry, through that market surplus, will produce rakija and that in that cooperative they can surrender, sell, and not in any way be valued. We all know tomorrow, or in the next period when we adopt this law, our plum will continue to generate revenue for our agricultural holdings. Whether through the finished product, whether through distillation, through brandy, but, of course, it will have an interest. We all know that our farmer has big problems when it comes to finally having to sell his family, we all know that tomorrow, if we don't provide this through association, through cooperatives, that these people can produce their plums, their brandy, that they can place it through a distillation that will be owned by these cooperatives, if it isn't, then we'll have a big problem, and the same will be a small price for that rinfu stuff. Because we all know how many kilos of plums we need for one liter of brandy. In this way, through association, and through association, and through association, it will have a better chance of providing a better price for these agricultural producers and it will be much easier for people to team up and work in this way. Otherwise, in the territory of Nisavski County we have 5,000 hectares under the fruit, of which 700 hectares have the Srlig municipality and all of us in this part of southeastern Serbia where I come from, we place a large accent on fruit growing. Through the fruit industry, through the stimulation in the fruit industry and local self-government itself helps, the ministry helps, but I think in the coming period we have to put a bigger accent through these subsidies but also help build droughts, coolers, because without those freezers and droughts, our farmer will have the opportunity to bake brandy, but before that we must form cooperatives. What else was I going to say about this law we're discussing now? I want to say that as MPs, I, as an MP of the United Peasants' Party, will vote for this law. I really think that this law is much better than the previous law and that it gives our farmers more opportunity to deal more easily and to make it easier to produce and to place it easier for them to own or brandy or brandy to be made of cherry or something else, other fruit. What else can I say for the end? So we all know that plum is the trademark of our Serbia. We all know as Serbian hosts in celebrations, at weddings, that without this goods can't go through, and I will end up with one of our songs, a song done by Dobrica Eric, saying: "The passengers that you go from a distance gray, remember this saying plain, a house before which there are no plums, no more hope for the sun or the guest. In Serbia, the country of orchards and fields is growing more and more aviities and gardens without plums. “ Without that, this song tells us everything, nature has given us everything, we really have a great chance, and therefore I invite you from the Ministry to put much more emphasis on fruit production because the great territory of our country of Serbia, as I come from, has a chance to work but there must be more help and local self-government, but also from your ministry there must be more real resources, so that these funds are not only on paper, so tomorrow the producer from Svrlig, Blaca or some other municipalities can’t take advantage of it. Once again, I will vote for this bill. Otherwise, I have to mention our entire southeast Serbia and say as a real Serbian host and as a man who lives both from agriculture and lives for agriculture and the village, I was almost in Blatz. Blace is a beautiful municipality where a village is called Grgure, where there is a large number of hosts who per hectare, I think it's an average of five hectares under the fruit. I think such villages must be helped. This applies to my municipality of Svrlig, this applies to the municipality of Književec and other municipalities, because really fruit growing is one big chance and this law that we are now discussing will mean a lot to us. That's exactly what I'm telling you about farmers. It will mean a lot, because we will have the opportunity to fill our farmers' budget in this way to support our village and our agriculture. Once again, live my Serbian hosts. I don't have brandy now, I don't consume alcohol, but I want to tell everyone that they know that this law will be great for our agricultural producers, and help has to be a little bit more in fruit growing and other parts of our agricultural production through the Ministry of Agriculture. Finally, I will vote for this law with a full heart, as I am sure that the adoption of this law will be much easier for agricultural production and for orchards throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38297	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the agenda. Dear People's MPs, as you are informed, continue the work of the Second session of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, November 3, 2015, starting at 17.00 a.m. as the day for voting on agenda items of the second session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 15.45 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-03-0.u38298	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system found that 131 MPs were present in the hall. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Railways I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, 136 of the total of 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the DS parliamentary group and a group of seven MPs of the DS group submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the DS parliamentary group and a group of seven MPs from the DS group submitted an amendment to the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the DS parliamentary group and a group of seven MPs of the DS group submitted to the 10th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 139 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD Group and a group of six MPs from the DS group submitted to the 21st amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs was submitted to the 28th amendment by Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 142 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 142 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against them, has voted for, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, none, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 142 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the amendment of 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 36th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 142 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 144 out of the total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Railways. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Safety and Interoperability Act of the Railway I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of MP Stefana Miladanovic to Articles 2 and 10. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of nine MPs to the 56th amendment, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 142 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on International Combined Transport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one with abstention – has voted one of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on road transport of passengers and things, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147, no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on road transport of passengers and things, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147, no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Safety and Health Act at work, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted an amendment to Article 2. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs to the SDA Sandzak-PD Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Safety and Health Act at work, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Safety and Health Act at work. I put to the vote the draft law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA-PD submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 143 out of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA-PD submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA-PD submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs to the SDA SANDZAKA-PD Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA-PD submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA-PD submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA SANDZAKA-PD submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs was submitted to the 28th amendment by Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted eight of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. We move to item 8 of the agenda – Proposal for a CONFORMATION OF THE CONVENTION OF THE CONVENTION ON CURRENCE, MEASUREMENTAL RIGHTS, RECOGNISATION AND EXECUTION OF DECISIONS AND ASSOCIATION IN PARENTS OF PARENTS AND MEASURES FOR THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN I place on the vote Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on Jurisdiction, Merit law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and co-operation in the matter of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 146, no one, with abstentions, has voted for two of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes of all the MPs, the bill. We move to the point of the 9th agenda – I would like to put the motion to vote for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in the Chamber of Commerce. I conclude the vote and declare: for -141, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has made the proposal and thus made a decision to suspend the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce. We move to item 10 of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Judges who are elected on the basis of the judge's office, I am putting the motion for a decision on the choice of judges who are elected on their way to the judge's office, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 139, no one, with abstentions, has voted nine of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to item 11 of the agenda – COLLECTION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE FIRST HALF OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE NATIONAL TRANSITIONAL COUNCIL TO THE PURPOSE OF 6 YEARS I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 13(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, each list of candidates, contains a number of candidates from the number of members elected (except the list of candidates submitted by SANU, which contains the same number of candidates as the number of members elected) so that each MP votes for as many candidates as the members of the Council are elected from the order of each prescribed structure. We're moving on to a decision. We approach the vote on a candidate for the election of a member of the College Council – regular university professors for a period of six years, on a proposal from SANU. The candidate for the selection of a member of the Council from the class of academics – regular professors of the university is academician Miljenko Peric. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 138, no one, with abstentions, has voted for ten of the total 148 MPs present. I understand that the National Assembly has selected academic Miljenko Perić as a member of the Council from the ranks of academics- regular professors of the university. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the University's regular professors for a period of six years, at the proposal of Matica Srpska. The candidates for selecting a member of the Council from the regular university professors are Prof. Dr. Nenad Ostojić and Prof. Dr. Slavko Gordic. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Nenad Ostojic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Slavko Gordic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, against – no one, with abstention – voted 12 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Dr. Slavko Gordic as a member of the Council from the university's regular professors. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of three members of the University of Belgrade teachers for a period of six years, on a proposal from the University of Belgrade. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Ana Pesikan, academician Bogdan Šolaja, Prof. Dr. Alexander Baucal, Prof. Dr. Ivica Radovanović and Prof. Dr. Alexander Lipkovski. We only vote for three candidates. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Ana Pesikan as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total of 148 MPs present. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Dr. Academyman Bogdan School as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, is a member of the Council from the regular professors of the university, Prof. Dr. Slavko Gordic. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Alexander Baucan as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total of 148 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ivica Radovanovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I am putting on a motion to elect Professor Alexander Lipkovski as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 137, no one, with abstentions, has voted for 10 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received for members of the Council from the Belgrade University teachers, has chosen Professor Ana Pesikan, Prof. Dr. Alexander Baucala and Professor Dr. Alexander Lipkovski. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council from the Nis University teachers for a period of six years, on a proposal from the University of Nis. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Dragan Denic and Prof. Dr. Dobrica Zivkovic. We only vote for one candidate. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Dragan Denic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 139, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the total of 146 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Dobrica Zivkovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Dr Dragan Denic as a member of the Council of the Nis University Teachers. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the University of Kragujevac Council for a period of six years, on a proposal from the University of Kragujevac. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Milomir Gasic, Prof. Dr. Branislav Popović and Prof. Dr. Marija Stanic. We only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Milomir Gasic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Branislav Popovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 139, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the total of 146 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Marija Stanic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, no one, no one, against -- no one, with abstentions -- voted 146 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Dr Branislav Popovic as a member of the Council of the University of Kragujevac Teachers. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Assembly of Teachers of Preschool Institutions for a period of six years, on the proposal of the Association of Teachers of Serbia. The candidates are Marina Arizanovic, Ljiljana Todorovic, Radmila Petrovic and Ljiljana Dragutinovic. I am putting the motion to elect Marina Arizanovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Ljiljana Todorovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I am putting forward a motion to elect Radmila Petrovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the total of 146 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Ljiljana Dragutinovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Radmila Petrovic as a member of the Council of the Community of Teachers of Preschool Institutions. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Union of Teachers of Serbia for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Union of Teachers of Serbia. The candidates are Zdenka Milivojevic and Katarina Radosavljevic. I am putting the motion to elect Zdenka Milivojevic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 146 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Katarina Radosavljevic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Zdenko Milivojevic as a member of the Council of the Union of Teachers of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council from Serbian historians' societies for a period of six years, at the proposal of the Serbian History Society "Stojan Novakovic". The candidates are: Natasa Djuka, Sasa Angelkovic, Dobrivoje Misic, Damir Zivkovic and Bojana Stevanovic. I'm putting on a motion to elect Natasha Djukanovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Sasa Angelkovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Dobrivoje Misic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Bojan Stevanovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one with abstention – has voted seven of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Damir Zivkovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143 out of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Bojan Stevanovic as a member of the Council from Serbian historians' societies. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Serbian Geographic Society's Council for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Serbian Geographical Society. The candidates are Mr Natasa Birovev, Dubravka Petrović and Mr Ivica Shantić. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Natasha Birovev as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dubravka Petrovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Ivica Shantic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Dubravka Petrovic as a member of the Council of the Serbian Geographical Society. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Association of Physicians of Serbia for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Association of Physicians of Serbia. The candidates are Vladan Mladenovic and Tatjana Markovic Topalovic. I am putting forward a motion to elect Vladan Mladenovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Tatjana Markovic Topalovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Vladan Maladenovic as a member of the Council of the Association of Physicians of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Serbian Chemical Society Council for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Serbian Chemical Society. The candidates are Mirjana Markovic and Milka Kostic. I am putting forward a motion to elect Mirjana Markovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Milka Kostic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Mirjana Markovic as a member of the Council of the Serbian Chemical Society. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Serbian Philosopher's Society Council for the period until 25 May 2017, on a proposal from the Serbian Philosopher's Society. The candidates are: Jadranka Pesti and Veroljub Ilic. I'm putting on a motion to elect Jadranka Pesti as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Veroljub Ilic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, chose Veroljub Ilic as a member of the Serbian Philosophical Society for the period until 25 May 2017. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Serbian Association of Art Pedagogogogoggogues Council, for a period of six years, at the proposal of the Association of Fine Pedagogists of Serbia. The candidates are Lola Lukic and Ljiljana Teodorović Milinkovic. I am putting the motion to elect Lola Lukic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, abstentioned – one, voted eight of the total of 143 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Ljiljana Teodorović Milinkovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Lola Lukic as a member of the Council of the Association of Art Pedagogists of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Association of Pedagogical Culture for a period of six years, on the proposal of the Association of Pedagogical Physical Culture and the Serbian Association of Teachers of Physical Education and Sports. The candidates are Ivan Ćirić and Slavoljub Djordjevic, at the proposal of the Society of Pedagog of Social Culture and Milan Pasic, at the proposal of the Serbian Association of Physical Education and Sports Professors. We only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Ciric as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 143 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Slavoljub Djordjevic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I am putting forward a motion to elect Milan Pasic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 143 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Ivan Ciric as a member of the Council of the Association of Pedagogics for Physical Culture. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Serbian Psychological Society Council for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Serbian Psychological Society. The candidates are Vesna Janjevic Popovic and Biljana Milojevic Apostolovic. I am putting the motion to elect Vesna Janjevic Popovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 143 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Biljana Milojevic apostolovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 142 out of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Vesna Janjevic Popovic as a member of the Council of Psychologists of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of two members of the Council from the ranks of representatives of the community of secondary schools, for a period of six years. The candidates are: Stanko Kiš and Nenad Misic, on a proposal from the Business Association of Textile and Kozar Schools of Serbia; Zoran Nikolic, on a proposal from the Community of High Professional Schools of Woodwork; Siniša Kotic, on a proposal from the Community of Engineering Schools of Engineering; Biljana Kordić, on a proposal from the Community of Transport Schools of Serbia; Milibor Saković, on a proposal from the Community of Economic, Legal and Trade and Tourism and Food Schools of Serbia; Stanko Matić, on a proposal from the Association of Geodetic and Construction Schools and the Association of Secondary Professional Schools in the field of work chemistry, non-metall and graphics and field of geology, mining and metallurgy for the group of metallurgy; Veljko Stojanović and Drjana Blažević Sedlar, on a proposal from the Association of Medical Schools of the Republic of Serbia; Nebojša Soklović, on the proposal of Education and the Centre of Education of Education and the Facultys of Education in the Facultys of Educations of Education of Education and Educations and Education in the Facultys, Education of Education of Education of Education and Education of Science and Education in the Facultys of Science and Science and Science and Science of Science of Education in the Schools, Education in the Departments, Education of Science and Education in the Departments, Education in the Departments of Science and Science and Science and Science of Science of Science of Science and Science and Science and Science of Science of Science of Science and Science and Science and Science of Science, and Science, and Science of Science of Science of Science in Science, and Science of Science, and Science, and Science, and Science in the institutions in the institutions of the institutions in the institutions in the institutions of Science in the institutions in the institutions in the institutions in the institutions. I'm putting on a motion to choose Stanko Kish as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 137 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Nenad Misic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting forward a motion to elect Zoran Nikolic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 137 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Siniša Kotic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Biljana Kordic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Milibor Sakovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Stanko Matic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Veljko Stojanovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Biljana Blagojevic Sedlar as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Nebojsa Sokolovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Miroljub Petrovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Milibor Sakovic and Stanko Matic as representatives of the community of secondary schools. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council in the order of representative unions for the work of education, for a period of six years. We're choosing one of four candidates. I am putting the motion to elect Dragan Matijević as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 137 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I am putting on a motion to elect Hadji Zdravko Kovac as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 137 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Tomislav Zivanovic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, but by mistake, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total of 137 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Alexander Nicic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – has voted five of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Alexander Nicic as a member of the Council from the ranks of the representative unions for the work of education. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of Employers' Association, for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Union of Employers of Serbia. The candidates are Ivan Kovacevic and Prof. Dr. Slavenko Grgurevic. I am putting the motion to elect Ivan Kovacevic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 138 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Slavenko Grgurevic as a member of the Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Dr. Slavenko Grgurevic as a member of the Council of Employers' Association. After completing the vote and selecting the first half of the members of the National Educational Council, for a period of six years, allow me to congratulate them on your and in my own name on the election and wish them success in the work. I put to the vote the motion for decisions on the resolution of members of the National Council for Higher Education, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – has voted five MPs, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put the motion to vote on the authentic interpretation of the provisions of Articles 27, 28, 40 and 71. The company's profit tax law (Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No. 25/01, 80/02, 80/02-Dr. Law, 43/03, 84/04 and 18/10) and Article 41(3) of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ No. 80/02, 84/02 – Correction, 23/03 – Correction, 70/03, 55/04, 61/05, 85/05 – Law, 62/06 – Dr. Law and 61/07) Please state our case. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one with abstention – has voted three MPs from the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 9 October 2015, at 13 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 137 MPs from the total of 137 MPs present. I find that you have decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 9 October 2015, at 14 hours and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 134 MPs from the total of 134 MPs present. I find that you have decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 13 October 2015, at 13 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to the violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, against two abstentions, has voted for 131 MPs from a total of 133 MPs present. I find that you have decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP, at a session on 16 October 2015, at 10 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—one, abstained—one, has voted 131 MPs from a total of 133 MPs present. I find that you have decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. Please specify the number of MPs present in the O.R. to insert your identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, and we have working conditions. I was told in writing that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Sinisa Maksimovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Goran Bogdanovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda. I would like to inform you that today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have invited the sittings of Mirjana Ivić and Miroljub Tomic, election members of the High Council of the Judges, as well as Vesna Janjic, an independent adviser in the Department of Status Affairs of the Judges of the High Council of the judiciary. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court. Do the presidents of the proposal, Mirjana Ivić and Miroljub Tomic, want the election members of the High Council of the judiciary? (Yes) The word first has Mirjana Ivić. Here you go.
