ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a few questions that I would like to direct to certain ministries today. I would first ask the Ministry of Justice, or I would ask the Department of Justice to review the Solar family of Novi Sad, where such a legal dispute occurred on property-legal relations that a young five-member family, who legally bought the apartment, had prescribed it on their own behalf, had become in a position to get out of their own apartment by some other law. So, the issue of ownership, the issue of state, the outstanding accounts and everything else between investors, the contractors brought young people, neither guilty nor debtors, to the threshold of life, with three children in the situation that they do not know where they are, nor how to solve their problem, so I would ask the Ministry of Justice, since the judicial authorities, so, the authorities, the institutions of this country, have made some judgments that have made this situation extremely dramatic, to take this case justly and to protect this family from all the ambiguities that we very often have in law enforcement. The Solar family, which these days, whose case has pretty upset the public, deserves to have a roof over their heads that they bought by their own means, registered on their own behalf, under it and enjoyed. If this country can't enable them, indeed, then we're in serious trouble. I'm asking the second question to the MUP, or the Emergency Sector, precisely because of the fires we had yesterday at the centre of Belgrade, and we recently passed a law on such situations. We're all aware that when a fire is extinguished by firemen, it's already an extreme necessity and a great tragedy. Our fire departments are always highly professional, risking their own lives doing everything, but the fire doesn't put out the fires, the fires are going out as long as they're in the lighter. So I think that we should engage more seriously in professional resources and launch an initiative, what is the obligation of all those institutions, institutions where it works, resides, circulates a large number of people, urban districts, so city administrations and local communities to have fire protection engineers who will prevent, act, warn before such situations happen. In this case we saw yesterday we see material damage. It is a great happiness, given that Belgrade's centre, that there were no human casualties, but they should not only be human victims of what will encourage us to act. I call on the MUP to address this home with one initiative that these personnel are legally and in a large number of jobs, so that they work professionally, because the richest society is the one where firefighters don't work. The third question is referred to the Ministry of Defense. As far as it's concerned, it's eight years old, and it's the right of retired officers to comply with their pensions for 11%, because their right has already been confirmed five times in the Constitutional Court, but they haven't realised it to this day. In what period and when can I expect, for eight years, the officers to comply legally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28576	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, who are currently following a part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Mr Verbić, as regards the enrolment of students at the Technical School in Majdanpek School 2015/2016. A year. Namely, at a meeting in Bor, held in April of this year, and in addition to the directors of all secondary schools from the region, the head of the Zaječar school administration, as well as the assistant minister of secondary education, Mr Kostic, were present. On this occasion, it is agreed that the Technical School in Majdanpek will be approved four departments with 30 students of the following educational profiles: machine technician, electrician, economic technician, tourist technician. In addition to Technical School, a class of 30 students was also approved in Majdanpek High School. The competition for enrolment of students to the Technical School was granted only three instead of the agreed four departments. She's not approved by an economic technician. This educational profile was removed without any explanation or notice. I ask the Minister for what reason and whose decision has not been approved for the direction of economic technician, and will this decision be reconsidered? Note, this school year, primary education ends in 175 students, and the ministry allows only 120 students in Majdanpek, 90 at the Technical School, 30 in High School. I ask the minister where his education will continue 55 students from Majdanpek if there is no possibility of enrolment for them? How will parents, whose salaries are reduced anyway, provide the necessary funds to get out of Majdanpek to school? By the way, the interest in enrolling students in the direction of economic technicians every year was over the estimated number and was recorded by the mahogany female population, and the success of students and the quality of education given to them is measured by a large number of students who have graduated from colleges. In addition, such a decision will leave a large number of professors of technical school with an incomplete norm of classes, the mah those professors of professional studies and those of general education. Some of them will be out of a job. Unfortunately, this example is not the only one. Such or similar decisions are increasingly affected by almost all municipalities in the edge areas of the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind the Prime Minister what he said about education in the exposé. He said: "This government will reform the education system. Our education will be our first priority. No one can expect education to be a one-way street, without intersections, where there is no need to make and review any decisions." I ask the Prime Minister - is this situation exactly where the unwarranted decision of the Ministry of Education should be reconsidered? Modernisation is a key word for Serbia in the next decade -- says the prime minister. I ask the prime minister – did he think that this way he was modernising Serbia's education system, by abolishing schools in border and devastated municipalities? While I have already mentioned the devastated areas of Serbia, it should be noted that the prime minister in one single word in his exposé did not refer to the catastrophic demographic situation in Serbia, not a single word about the peopleless villages, about many parts of Serbia whose population by a third is reduced. Not a word about the government's plans to solve this huge problem. But that's why the prime minister's exposés were filled with all kinds of wiseries, teaching Chinese proverbs, Bill Gates' quote, Tony Blair, so I ask the prime minister -- is the government even dealing with a catastrophic demographic situation in Serbia? Is the government working on making, as it were said, a national plan for Serbia's development? In the end, the prime minister said just over a year ago: "This support would mean nothing if we as a government would not use it to change the lives of our citizens for the better." I can only ask the citizens of Serbia – are you feeling better anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28578	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28579	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear guests at the gallery, my first question was addressed to Interior Minister Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, and the other questions I will ask Prime Minister Vukic. Namely, 4. 05. In 2015, Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said he heard some go around asking for money from public enterprises for the party and the one from above. "Anyone who does this will be arrested and immediately reported to the police." My question for the prime minister is this – if he heard that some are going public and asking for money for the party, why didn't he report it himself to the police? A question for Nebojsa Stefanovic, although he is a prominent scientific worker and a doctor, so he could come to such a conclusion – did he see this statement and, if he saw it, did the police possibly launch any actions? I don't believe it's possible to determine who's going through public enterprises and asking for money for SNS, especially since the prime minister himself has knowledge of it. Is someone arrested under this great action, given that the prime minister, as we know, is a very large anti-corruption fighter and certainly would not have his own knowledge that someone was asking for money for SNS gave an interview in a daily newspaper, but would probably have done something. So my question -- how many people were arrested for asking for money for SNS in public enterprises in Serbia? In the same question, I would ask a question – how long has the investigation come in the statement by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic from the last term that certain ministers are working against the state and setting up, in fact that a minister is working against the state and setting up jobs for his friend's company, she said she has official knowledge that this is something that can be read in diplomatic mail? So my question is -- which minister in the previous or this government has been setting up business for his friend's company and does anyone from the government, except Vice President Zorana Mihajlovic, read the diplomatic mail in which she read such information? I'm asking the Prime Minister my next question. I already asked him once, however, I received an answer from the wrong person, from Mr Vujovic, who I did not ask the question to. My question was: who will answer for the damaging decision of former Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, who was brought into this country as a wunderkind not to convert our euro dollars loans, which is why Serbia lost 783m euros, or a two-year savings from wage cuts and pensions? I received an answer from Minister Vujovic, who explained to me the well-known things in which Serbia is in debt and the like, however, the main question – who will answer what Vunderkind Lazar Krstic, by his poor decision, spent a two-year savings from a reduction in wages and pensions, is the only question left without an answer. I ask further questions, too, to the Prime Minister, and these are the things he said and that are left without an answer. Let's go in order, so far as we can, although it's a minute and 10 seconds too little time to list all the questions we have, and all of them are about the things the Prime Minister has promised himself. First, where are the investments totaling 10 billion from the United Arab Emirates? What about the fact that sheiku was personally donated, a slightly donated hotel in Kopalnik for 600,000 euros less than Serbia bought just a few days before that? What about the four-billion-euro chip factory and the three-billion-euro loan aid? Where is the 400m-euro investment for the airline production plant for "Boing's" er bass models? What happened to the signed memorandum of co-operation with Global Capital Advisors Management? What about 380 euros a square? What about infrastructure and construction investments? The Kargo Center in the Boats? Tourism? The highways? Agro-business? What about the polo club in Prellin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28580	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28581	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, respected students of the Faculty of Law, distinguished citizens who follow the transfer, I will ask one question again. I'm not gonna shoot a bunch of questions out of a machine gun. I now understand why, although it is not good for the ruling majority and for the government in Serbia, we do not have a practical opposition, but when such questions are raised, it is no wonder that the opposition is below the censorship, which is fighting for censorship and that we have this situation in society, because democratic society always needs a strong opposition, which is now, unfortunately, not the case. Guys, let me ask someone why they were selling land to the Saric drug clan. I was setting it up when it was time, and now we're back on the subject of why and how they worked. The courts handle it, so those who have done so will hopefully respond one day, and it is known that it was the government in the period from 2008 to 2012. However, in Serbia, around Serbia, there is currently much serious going on in the region to deal with non-serious issues, such as some of my colleagues earlier. In fact, yesterday, the Pristina Assembly did not put on the agenda the constitutional amendments to which it should form, of course, according to an international obligation, a special court to deal with the crimes of members of the so-called so-called. Kosovo Liberation Army, in fact, one terrorist organization. Now it is known that not only was the opposition against it, but there are also MPs who are against it. Even Pristina media reports say the reason they're afraid of coming under the influence of that court. So these are some who had uniforms, and now they've changed into suits and become MPs in that parliament. In addition, we had a protest yesterday and nine families killed in Kumanov in police action and, interestingly, the citizens of Kosovo, as they say, but we still have to admit that they are Serbian citizens, who are terrorists. Even there they themselves said that these people did not go to fight for money but to fight for the rights of Albanians, which is proof that all of what we are saying all this time that Kosovo is a source of instability for the whole region and that it is present and that the international community that has taken responsibility for security in that territory has to deal with this issue more seriously because we saw that in Kumanovo it was in fact preparing for several terrorist actions that the Macedonian police tried to prevent. Unfortunately, our neighbors had eight dead officers, 37 wounded. This cannot be called an incident because if we look at those conflicts in 2001, 63 people died in the entire war, and now in one, they say, an incident or a small conflict of eight Macedonian police officers died. It's a very serious thing. I think we should pay considerable attention to that too. Many of them took part in the Islamic republic by terrorists, and I have warned here many times. It seems to me that we haven't acted preventively until today in the right way. We must help those who are fighting the Islamic Republic much more as a state of Serbia and engage in this fight because they are here with us, 1,200 who in 2000 raised the uprising against the Republic of Serbia today are in Presevo, Bujanovac, in Medvedja, meaning 1,200. We know that, as a state. We don't need someone to put it in, say, someone from Kosovo to make the same happen to us. To all of this, when we connect, there is still no union of Serb municipalities in Kosovo, which is an obligation under the Brussels Agreement, and it is an institutional guarantee to our citizens that it will be safer. Therefore, all this is happening, my question is – what are the government's next activities in all these fields, especially the Ministry of European Integration, in order to avoid any possibility of slowing Serbia on its way to the EU?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28582	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28583	For every commendation, of course, are the activities of the prime minister who is going around Europe these days to get to know all of this and talk to our partners, but, of course, on June 1st in the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28584	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Miletic Mihajlović, Dragan Sutanovac, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) and Article 101(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am now setting a break until 11.00 p.m., i.e. until the Government's opinion on amendments submitted to the draft law on item 1 of the agenda, as well as reports and amendments to the committees in charge. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Please, let's get back to work. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Professor Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister of Civil Aviation, Transport and Infrastructure and Mirjana Cizarov, Director of Civil Aviation Directorate. We move on to the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act in particular. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Gorana Čomić, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovana Marković, Goran Ćirić, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Marko Đurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic, Slobodan Homen, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Prof. dr. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Basarevic, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak, Ljiljana Nestorović, Stefana Miladanovic, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Đorđe Stojšić and Mr. Dejan Čapo, as well as the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government, on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. We move to Article 1 of the amendment, together with the MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Markovic and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 1st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted the same text. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and the honored guests, is a great pleasure to one MP, I think when the interventions he makes or she, in connection with the debate on a bill, is accepted and the contents of a single amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Mr. Becic, I will use now and part of the amendment time, because I want to say that this amendment is one of the 13 amendments that have been accepted, and that these amendments have been submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I. I must share this pleasure with the MPs here. I see, Mr. Becic, that SNS MPs are not here now in large numbers, I hope it is not a sign of one resistance, this approach by Mrs. Mihajlovic. I hope they are absent for justified reasons, not because they do not agree with Mrs. Mihajlovic's approach, when she, I think justifiably, accepts our amendments for a reason. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted 23 amendments, to members, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, a good bill on amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. 13 of our amendments have been accepted, and I would like to remind the MPs here that we have focused our amendments on three objectives. We had three orientations when it came to our wishes, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, to make a good bill even better, which, of course, is fine. One thing of course we have to take care here of Serbian spelling and grammar, it was part of an explanation for one part of our amendments, but here I have to admit it also part of Mrs. Mihajlovic's explanation for not accepting some of our amendments. And, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I accept those arguments. Second, our focus was on stricter criminal policies. I think that the MPs from the SNS, who are here, I must repeat this once again, Mr. Becic, are not in any large numbers here, but other MPs, well Mrs. Milosevic is there, Mr. Atlagic is there and so on, but I can see that the number is not what it normally is when, for example, it should be applauded by ministers or the Prime Minister and so on. And now that Mr. Becic is to be applauded at our dedication, on responsibility for accepting our amendments in large numbers, there are no MPs of the SNS. But here are those MPs who are here, for example, for Mrs Milosevic, for Mr Atlagic and the other gentlemen, to say, by this bill and by accepting one of our amendments, we are also directed towards a more severe criminal policy. The two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I in this National Assembly are consistent fighters for strict criminal policy. In a large number of draft laws that come here, and I see now that Mrs. Mihajlovic has accepted one of our amendments and accepted this logic as well. Third thing, gentlemen, and I'm glad that Mrs. Mihajlovic accepts it and that our guidance concerns efficiency. One of our amendments regarding the shortening of certain deadlines for the adoption of some documents has also been accepted and I, Mrs Mihajlovic, can only congratulate you here today. Second thing, gentlemen and Mr. Becic, here's to tell Mrs. Jerkov who's looking over here on the side. Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov. You're welcome to sit down. You won't interfere. Thank you. So, it is good that the minister, by accepting our amendments, tells the MPs of the party whose vice president is to amend and that the dialogue in the Assembly and that the debate in the Assembly is never and should never be a sign of political hatred, as Mr Babic, who is now not in the hall, for example, or as he likes to say by Mr Martinovic, who is also now in the hall, Mr Becic. So dialogue, debate, acceptance of amendments that are well explained. Well, it must not and is not part of political hatred, it is part of our regular dialogue, Mr. Orlic, the controversy we need here to have in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is not a place for common senses but for facing different approaches, different philosophies and examples of Mrs. Mihajlovic today shows that in this conflict together, respected gentlemen, we can provide one law, and that he is a little better at our work together. The third thing, dear Mr. Becic, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the People's MPs, in this year and month, Mrs. Mihajlović certainly doesn't know this information, so here she is to hear, in this year and month, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I, Mr. Bečić and you know, have submitted a total of 1,250 amendments. Here, only this occasion has adopted 13 amendments. Unfortunately, a total of 75 amendments have been adopted in the past year and month. But I can say one more thing, it is that more amendments were to be adopted, but respected gentlemen, these 75 out of 1,250, Mr. Becic, makes 6% of the amendments adopted. That means, gentlemen, if we remember our debate from the previous month here, that we have increased the number of amendments adopted in this National Assembly by one percent, just one month. And I now remind the MPs, that if we were to transfer these percentages to support the electoral body, that would mean that only the New Party, in those first year, provided 5% support to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in this month, Mr Becic and Mrs Mihajlovic, the persistent, dedicated legislative work in our National Assembly and control work and supervisory work compared to the executive government of the Republic of Serbia, we increased that support by another percentage. And now we're Mr. Becic, and I'm glad to see the pleasure now on your face, and now we've reached a percentage of 6% of the amendments adopted when it's transferred to 6% of the support in the electoral body, that's for me, for a year and a month's extraordinary success. But we're looking for even higher percentages, Mr. Becic. Mrs. Mihajlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is our goal, 20% in the next parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28587	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for this inspired presentation, but 6% of the accepted amendments don't have to mean 6% in the election. Thank you. Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28588	I thank you for your suggestions. You wrote the law, i.e. Your president participated in 2010, then as a member of the DS, you have now helped with your knowledge to perfect the law, especially in this area where the spelling and other grammatical errors you have said are. I just have to point out one more thing, it's that a lot has changed since we have the SNS in power, but for the better, because before that we've had a situation that whatever constructive proposal comes in the previous governments of any opposition political party, you didn't even want to read it. So that's the difference seriously, and I think it's quite positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28589	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Zivkovic, no name or name has been mentioned. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Mention of the party president. ) The party president is not enough, there are many parties here so that I as chairman may know... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: When talking about a foreigner and talking about Pavicevic, I think even you know it. ) Mr. Pavicevic, look, I don't know, I can't tell, only if you want to speak by amendment. According to the amendment, Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28590	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already said here that democracy isn't just about saying what you want, it's democracy and the right to listen to what you want and who you want. Maybe that's the reason, but a secondary reason for a little less party presence that supports the government. As president of the NSS, I do not feel called among those words – party president. I must say that the second reason is that there are some narrower presences of committees and discussions on the economy and privatisation currently being conducted outside this hall, so MPs from ruling parties, parties supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia for this reason are not present in the hall. But I wonder for what reason, with which indignity may opposition MPs not listen to the previous speaker because there were only two MPs on his election list? I don't mind having 1250 amendments filed, democracy costs. In his explanation, he cited it as the main reason that it was their great success. Of these 1250 amendments, our viewers should know, when voting on these amendments, MPs who mainly proposed the amendments "is deleted", were only present at maybe 5% and less than 5% of the amendments. Therefore, the quality of the amendments and amendments themselves speaks about the presence of the vote, not just the government's acceptance of it as an integral part of the bill's proposal. In order for our viewers to be fully informed, I am obliged to say that in his explanation of the previous speeches he failed to say that they did not believe in their own proposals and that almost 1000 amendments had been submitted with the words "expect" which were completely unnecessary. I am not opposed to the amendments being proposed, to be discussed, but I will set an example, an example of the Indji Municipality and the Rules of Procedure that the party of the former regime has adopted, so that this word called for by the previous speaker and the right, the sacred right of democracy, that the words in the interpretation of the amendments have been abolished, where they rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28591	Mr. Risticevic, please just go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28592	I'm in the amendment just as much as the previous speaker. So, I speak where they rule is the forbidden explanation of the amendments. You can in one law all amendments can explain up to two minutes. We here patiently listen to the explanation of the amendment's proposing 1250 amendments, of which a thousand were "expunged", for which the Assembly spent more money than is necessary for anti-urban protection. I believe that some amendments, despite the right of the opposition to propose them, cost us more than anti-urban protection, a lack of rockets, which is why some crops were destroyed, and therefore I believe that when a reasoned amendment was accepted by the government, in the same way as to warn the amendment that, regardless of their lexical correction was adopted, you should have warned them that there could be no talk about the presence of MPs of the ruling parties, about what success it is to propose 1250 amendments. It is a success to vote for its amendments and for more of their amendments I voted for than they did for themselves, which speaks enough about the proposing and the way they propose and explain their amendments. I welcome the government's adoption of the opposition amendments, it was not a practice before, it was a democratic right both the government and the ruling majority, to accept their amendments, to accept for their amendments the votes, but I think what the words in the interpretation of these amendments cost us a lot, cost us more than anti-urban protection, and that about that, my warm advice to those who propose amendments that they don't even trust when they don't even attend to the interpretation of amendments that they don't trust themselves because they don't vote for them, to try to reduce the little number of amendments to have little faith, to have little understanding and for that poor layer of peasants who don't have anti-urban protection and to shift the money we save here for some kind of protection, additional protection, and in such a way do well for themselves and for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28593	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a People's MP after the amendment, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28594	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which today represents a resolute minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is by no means aware of which time we demonstrate a very correct, constructive, rational and responsible approach and what we have today is that we are in a position to accept some amendments that we can say are useful. So it's not a lonely case, it's not the first time, it's happened before. So, there's no room for any congenitality or liquefying. I welcome the government's decision. On the other hand, I commend some MPs, in this case MEPs of these amendments and this amendment that finally after a year began to write meaningful amendments, began to write amendments that can be applied, which could improve the law and only took a year for them to realize that they had sinned, to realize that for the previous year, as Honorable counterpart Risticevic said, the amendments in the text "be deleted", which in no way contributed to the improvement of the law, and I call on them to continue with this practice. We forgive them for the past year, that's what they say about them and their understanding of doing this job. I call on them to continue with this practice, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia without prejudice over who the proposed amendment comes from, whether from the MPs of the opposition or the position, has shown one principle and responsibility and accepted the amendment, I repeat, which in some way benefits the law itself, but also the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28595	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of point 38, which says that the aircraft operator is any legal or physical person who uses or intends to use one or more aircraft. We thought it was more meaningful that this sentence was – the aircraft operator is every legal or physical person that uses one or more aircraft and to explain it to you plastically, I don't think it's enough that someone wants or intends to use an aircraft, but it has to do it realistically. The government, that is, the minister's wife rejected the amendment with an explanation that it was prescribed from EU documents. So be it, but I don't think it makes sense, and it doesn't make sense. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28597	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow Members and I of my parliamentary group have submitted amendments in order to in some way affect the quality of the text of the law and to propose to them, in our opinion, interventions that would improve the text of the law. Otherwise, Article 3 regulates, according to changes and additions, unmanned aircraft, aircraft models, rockets and other flying facilities and attitude 3 determines closer conditions for the safe use of drones and aircraft models. We suggested that after the word “other flying objects” be added the word:“ as well as the conditions of consent for launch. ” In Article 3. The bill introduces a category of drones, which is good and necessary. It is also correctly established that more detailed conditions for the use of unmanned aircraft are prescribed by the Directorate, but above all, in paragraph 2 it is prescribed that a previous consent is required to launch unmanned aircraft. This solution is not accurate, so even without a precise classification of aircraft, its application is difficult. In practice, this means that neither the model of a helicopter sold in any mall can be used, launched without prior consent. For this reason, we propose an intervention in paragraph 3, which provides that the Directorate, among other things, prescribes the terms of consent as well as the use of the aircraft that we have listed. This amendment has been rejected, i.e. not accepted by the Government for reasons of legal basis for the adoption of the sub-legislative rules referred to in Article 3. The draft law amending Article 10 of the Law broad enough to cover both the conditions and the consent set out in the amendment. We believe that the solution in the bill is still not precise enough and we suggest that you reconsider the amendment and accept it for a more precise regulation of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28599	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28600	You, of course, have been given a reason why the amendment is not accepted, but just to be clear first that drones did not even become in the previous law, that we have now put them, that they are given the opportunity to use them, that approval for it is given by Flight Control, that they cannot endanger the airspace. But the term you used - launch is one phase of take-off. So if they already have permission for something like that, then this would just be an extra detail. Just so you know, launch is part of the takeoff.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28601	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28602	Article 5 refers to the part that deals with the matter of the National Air Safety Committee and the position on which we have submitted the amendment – in order to coordinate the functioning of bodies, organisations and aircraft entities responsible for aviation safety and recommending how to improve it, the Government educates the National Air Safety Committee as an occasional working body of the Government. We have suggested that this is replaced by "permanently" by "permanently", because we believe that the National Air Safety Committee is being educated to coordinate the functioning of bodies, organisations and aircraft entities responsible for aviation safety and to make recommendations on how to improve it, in our nature we do not think that this body can be educated as temporary, but as a permanent working body. In particular, we point out that the formation of a permanent working body is necessary and in order to comply with Article 33. The Government Act, because according to the provision of this member, the Government educates permanent working bodies to deliver opinions and proposals on matters of government competence and to coordinate the views of the Government's authorities, while the occasional working bodies are educated to address certain issues from the government's competence and to make proposals, opinions and professional arguments, which in our opinion are not the case here. Well, I think that Madam Minister should consider and accept this proposal on Article 5 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28603	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic in the same text. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28604	Of course, it is good when good amendments are adopted and it should serve the honor of both the minister and the government who does so and there is no dilemma. I don't see why adopting good, meaningful amendments is causing such a bad atmosphere in parliament. It is obvious that neither MP Pavicevic nor I nor anyone else in the opposition is initiating it. We do our job, we read the laws. Where grammatically-legislatively vague or wrong interventions. Where we think the laws are solid, and they can be fixed, we give amendments, and where we see that the law is a complete failure, we also make amendments called "wipes". I would like to ask colleagues who are surprised by such a formulation of the amendment to read a little bit. There is a history of parliamentaryism, so when you go a little deeper, you will see that this kind of amendment is very common in the parliaments of states that have a long parliamentary tradition. This is no surprise, nor is it something that someone should be made ignorant or, what people would say, stupid, so that they can't recognize who they are when they talk about someone, when they talk about the president that they don't know what party they're from, when they're talking about the predecessor, that they don't know who the previous speaker is because they're not mentioned. Madam Minister and Vice-President said earlier, as far as I realized, that I participated as a member of the DS in writing the 2010 Air Force Act, which, of course, is not true. It's hardly that any member of any party just because he's a member can participate in writing the law. On the other hand, in 2010, it will be more likely that the G17 Plus Party Minister herself and the Deputy Prime Minister's adviser could have participated in writing legislative proposals. I don't think it's anything bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28605	Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28606	I've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28607	You're gonna use these five minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28608	So, I don't think it's anything wrong and there's no need to be like serious people, like people in good years, as people with significant political standing, we go into discussions, replicas and raise voices about things that are absolutely notorous facts and shouldn't be at the expense of anyone who mentions them or who utters them. We'll continue writing the amendments. It's our responsibility. This is the obligation of each MP from any party, either by this electoral system or by some other way, in this number of MPs, in this assembly of parliaments or in some other way. We will continue to do so, regardless of what some people, who have obviously strayed into this parliament, with the vague will of whoever put them on the list and chosen to promote them to parliament... People will be surprised, of course everywhere, and also in the Serbian parliament, which is a reflection of Serbian society, that there are people who can hardly understand certain things, regardless of what is used Serbian or any other language that is accepted and legal in this country, regardless of what reasonable explanations are given. As far as the law itself is concerned, we have already said, Mr Pavicevic and I, we believe it is a solid law, that it improves the previous law to a significant extent. By adopting these amendments, we will be prepared to vote in favour of this law both in principle and after the overall debate. If we don't happen to be in an O.R. at the time of the vote, consider us voting for this bill. This reaction and fellow MPs and some who sit in the seat of the government discuss a lack of science, i.e. a misrepresentation of parliamentaryism. The fact that you think sitting in parliamentism and pressing these buttons to vote is the essence of parliamentaryism and your presence, that's wrong. Political decisions, political views, that is what MPs should also show to colleagues sitting in this hall and citizens of Serbia, and you can teach that to any primate who has hands or feet to press anything. That's not hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28609	Mr. Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28610	You don't think you can learn primate. I think he can, and if you recognize that I'm insulting this person, then you're wrong. I haven't talked about any colleagues or about you or any politician.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28611	I don't want to believe you're insulting someone, but don't use those words in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28612	What you want to believe, go to church, so believe me. Don't interrupt me and waste my time, time for my debate. So I'm telling you that we're going to vote for a law that's solid, which is partially corrected by our amendments. I am telling you that we will continue this practice in the future, that every good law will have our support, that every bad law will have on our part as many amendments as there are members with the text – is deleted. Surprise, extremism and other reactions are entirely upon the souls of those who do so. Generally, I will repeat once again that it has been missed in this law, but it does not diminish its value, to resolve this conflict in the management and control of the flight of civilian and military aircraft. We could have solved this after a very ugly occasion that we had two months ago, which is, in addition to the maximum irresponsibility of high state and military officials, the result of poor legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28613	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28614	Mr. Chairman, there's been a lot going on in this House. It also happened that someone was not there and that they were counting on his votes, just as counterpart Zivkovic just said. It also happened that the MPs were voting from Thessaloniki...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28615	Just a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28616	Article 107, I said in the first sentence, Mr. Chairman. It has happened that MPs in the organisation of the former regime and the Democratic Party and Mr Zivkovic vote from Bodrum, but I will also warn you that, Mr President, it is because of such acts that some people have lost their political careers, but such acts have had a judicial epilogue, that in the largest and highest legislative body they call for a violation of the law, to violate procedures, to say, you know, we will not be there, but count on our votes, crime, Mr. Chairman. The least we could expect for such a thing, and the MPs, and the Serbian public, is to take someone's word away, to think about it a little bit before it comes with an insult to other colleagues. This is progress. Now we receive unlike that time when we were cattle or I don't know what, which he worshiped us here in the National Assembly. Now we're being taught to be some buttons, but primates who know what the law is and how this law is respected and that you can't vote from a bar, from a bar, from a penthouse from Vračar, but from the House of the National Assembly, from this hall, from this MP's unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28617	I thank you, Mr. Granny. I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Zivkovic very often complains to the presidents about what is not standing, so he asked us to be able to interpret the parts of the speech of some debaters on an arbitrary basis, to determine whether or not the president was thinking, whether at some point the previous speaker, what Mr. Zivkovic also said, and before that was Prime Minister Mihajlovic, and Mr. Pavicevic. How am I supposed to give my word to Mr. Zivkovic? Also, when it is said that MPs are not in the hall, and the same is now said not only to sit in the hall, it is not the only parliamentary obligation when we know that there are a large number of MPs in public listening to Minister Sertic, who is explaining the law that will come into the assembly procedure. It's the apropo that SNS MPs aren't in the O.R. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28618	You know how, you can call us whatever you want, and these, and these, and they, and receive, whatever, but we know very well that the law would come into force, you have to press the button or the button, right here in parliament, so we can get that law, which you said was solid, to apply. I would love for the citizens of Serbia, because you talk so much about amendments that have been accepted, to explain a little bit what has been accepted, because there has been no fundamental objection to this law, or amendments and additions to the law. Secondly, the legal and technical redistribution is done in the government prior to the entry of a law into parliament. When parliament votes to amend and supplement or a new law, it is done by the Assembly's legal-technical redistribution. Let's just see on this article. The sentence reads this way – the data of Article 1 cannot be used for other purposes, except for improving safety and security in aircraft. You deleted the word “work” and you put “other than for promotion”, and then in one of the amendments, which was accepted, instead of “the means”, you said “the means”, and in another you said “the contents” of “the content”, and then you said “the state” was added to a comma, and in one of the following amendments you could “recognise” with the word “recognition”, and then in one of the amendments you signed the entire paragraph, which has one six, seven rows, and added a comma that may or may not be. These are the amendments that have been accepted by your parliamentary group. All right, they've been accepted, but just so we know what's been accepted for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28619	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, why do you think you have the right to a replica? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Direct address. ) Mrs. Mihajlovic said from your parliamentary group, and you are not a parliamentary group. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28620	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have waited very carefully to get my word, waited and waited. On the amendments, I commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which despite the offensive arguments of the amendments, the government and the competent ministries find ways, strength and will to accept the amendments, wherever they come from. For these reasons, I believe that MPs who propose such a kind of amendment should also be grateful in a certain way for not making any restrictions, i.e. that MPs are not divided into similar and inappropriate, but that the amendments are accepted in the opinion of the Government and the Ministry, by text rather than by political colour. The government deserves a little more respect for these reasons. I must say, given that he is here complaining about the lack of MPs who support the government, I must also read that in the Small Hall there is a large collection and very significant, and that is what Mr. Becic should have said, that we are holding two sessions in parallel because in such a way we would save significantly on the cost of holding both sessions. That is why a gathering called "the importance of parliamentarians' leading role in the process of promoting awareness of the fight against corruption" is being held in the Small Hall. I think it's an important topic and it's worth attending, by a number of MPs, and in that place that's definitely going to give us the impressions of what was in Little Hall, so we split into two goals. For that reason, we are somewhat less present, but there I did not notice any MPs from the opposition at all, so I believe they don't care about any of the other groups. As far as my previous colleague's argument is concerned, I'm always touched by that argument about aircraft and military issues. I'm making the difference between poorly-stealed chickens, between the village of the Colonel, who flies and the plane, since I served the Air Force, since I served in the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defense, it's called anti-aircraft defense. That's why I know very well the difference between a badly-stained chicken in the village of the Colonel while I served the army and military planes. I think that's what my colleague says from a military practice that wasn't, unlike me, and that's why I'm in a certain way always touched. As for those primates and so on, there's one saying I'm going to say again. He says: “There is nothing but an evil word that can come out of the wicked mouth. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28621	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28622	I would like to take the opportunity to remind, once again, the honourable prime minister, colleagues and colleagues of the amendment that has been proposed and to remind the honourable legislators of the definition of parliamentary congratulation. So, when the MP, the amendment's proposer, believes his amendment makes sense in voting day, he is obliged to vote in favour of the amendment he has submitted. That's Parliament's congratulation. I know it's hard to understand gentlemen who have managed to write a thousand times something they think makes sense without having enough parliamentary congratulations to stay and vote for those proposals. What is extremely important on the subject of this amendment, and I could probably note for the other amendments that the same proposings made, that they are not meant by any vote that will be given by those who sit in the majority of this Assembly, so I, in the Voting Day, as a member of the Socialist Movement and as a member of the SNS Group, will not give a vote for this amendment, especially because it essentially changes nothing to the quality of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28623	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28624	My fellow MPs, this member who adds j, and that's what I said in that broad explanation, one of the most important parts, one of the most important papers. It certainly provides a backup and security mechanism that can be monitored and which the Directorate monitors over all those events that can happen and that happen. I will agree with Madam Minister that these proposed amendments from respected colleagues do not change anything fundamentally and that they are, I can say, more language structures and that they have no significant importance, so I am surprised that they have indeed accepted this amendment. I personally wouldn't accept it, because it doesn't change anything more significant in this article. What I'm trying to say is that I was also thinking about proposing an amendment that would motivate or motivate employers to be published at the Directorate's site. Here it is left that practically, employers are obliged to encourage their employees for general good, to report every event. However, came with a collapsing with the very title – protection of data and secrecy, practically that data and I did not suggest it. Once again, let me conclude that this is an amendment that I would really not accept, because nothing essentially changes and I would disagree with my colleague that "wipes" can in any case be a favourable thing. Since this is something that we have adopted from European lawyers, I see no reason for this law to have in any part the prefix to be "expunged", except in individual positions or smaller points. Anyway, I wouldn't vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28625	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28626	Thank you. And we have an amendment to Article 6, but we're proposing a different solution. It is already said that Article 6 regulates data protection, i.e. a new Article 17a is added after Article 17. who regulate data protection and in Section 5 says – employers are obliged to encourage their employees to report any event they consider to be a real and potential danger to the safety of aircraft, without fear that they may suffer certain consequences. We have suggested that this attitude be reformed in such a way that it is said – the employer's employee is obliged to report any event that he considers to be a real and potential danger to the safety of aircraft. And that a new position of 6 is added after Article 5 - employees should not suffer any consequences by the employer for the performance of their duties under Article 5. The provisions on the application of these circumstances which are a real or potential danger to the safety of the aircraft as formulated by the draft law are an instructive character, as the employer only encourages employees. We believe that a more comprehensive solution is to foresee the obligation of an employee and to protect the employee at the same time from suffering any consequences due to the reporting of circumstances and events that pose a threat to the air force. The amendment is rejected by reason that it is not accepted for the reason that the obligation to report events is already regulated by Article 17. Air traffic law which is not the subject of the bill. The decision of the bill is in line with the Institute of Voluntary Application of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe's Directive 2003/42. I think that this argument is not adequate, because the amendment is not about the existence of an application obligation, but about the degree of obligation to apply, although the European Directive provides for a voluntary application, I don't think we would have any problem raising that volunteer to a higher degree and predicting mandatory application. Given the conditions we have, there have been words in the debate in principle, as much as we have airports and that there are no conditions in place for work at all, I think this would lead to more security in air traffic with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28627	Thank you. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28628	In Article 7, the word “containment” is replaced by the word “containment”. It is an amendment to which the senseless text proposed by a single letter is placed in the position of meaning. That's what the minister and the government recognized, accepted the amendment, and it's completely one normal procedure. A fellow member of the Socialist Movement said he would not vote for this amendment when it comes to voting day and it is perfectly normal because it is not voted for amendments accepted by the government. So, they didn't want to, no one would vote for this amendment because it was already accepted by the government and thus became an integral part of the bill and is not voted on. It's the same good thing and maybe it has something to do with political honesty, and maybe it has to do with other skills, such as reading, understanding, and other things. Generally, we will, once again, continue the human work of preserving the Serbian language, making sense of the existence of a necessary institution called the Serbian parliament, and most likely we will be one important part of the operation, but not essentially but technically important, to leave it to those who have won most of the elections and whom, I do not agree with counterpart Pavicevic that there are too few in the hall, I think there are too many in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28629	Thank you. He has the word, according to the amendment, National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. As far as the amendments are concerned, of course they will not vote for this because the government has accepted it. The big moral problem is not because the government does not accept the amendments, that MPs of the ruling coalition, MPs and parties who support the government of the Republic of Serbia do not vote in favour of amendments submitted by my colleague. That's not such a problem. The moral problem, the real moral problem is when amendments are not voted by those who submit them. I claim that those who have submitted 1,250 amendments have not voted for 1,100 at least. It speaks of their moral characteristics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28631	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will read this article of the 24th where we tabled the amendment, not for your sake, because you have materials, but for citizens who follow this transmission to know what it is. The member speaks of the flight plan and in the third position i.e. in the first position, the aircraft can fly into the airspace of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a flight plan previously submitted to the air navigation service provider. The following position says – content, method of submission, modification and closure of the flight plan in general air traffic and the method of issuing the approval preceding the submission of the flight plan is prescribed by the Directorate. The last position – content, method of submission, modification and closure of the flight plan for aircraft flying in operational air traffic is determined by a regulation agreed by the minister responsible for defence affairs and by the minister responsible for internal affairs. You can see he's a very important member and it's a flight plan and a security plan for air traffic. We have suggested that this last position is to change the position and that the words - agreedly brought by the defence minister and the interior minister are replaced by the words -- which the government brings to the joint proposal by the defence minister and the interior minister. Why did we suggest that? Because of the very important matter that needs to be solved in contact with these two ministries. We believe that agreeing and resolving these flight plans is insecure and insufficiently speaking and can open up many topics and dilemmas and we think that the proposal that we have made is decided by the Government, and, by the way, at the government's meetings on this matter, other members of the Government may be involved. Ministers who indirectly and sectorally have or may have an impact on the content of the rules on the flight plan of the aircraft, we believe that it is much better and it is good that the Government has accepted this and I think that the Minister will agree that this is one of the amendments that essentially amends the proposal and will commend us for that. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28633	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bečić, the Honored Mrs. Mihajlović and the Honored Guests, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 11 of this Bill proposal and we have offered the content of the amended article 64, which is in our court more in spirit with the Serbian language and in respect of the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. The government has not accepted this amendment, gentlemen. I have read the argument – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 11. A bill amending Article 64 of the Law is grammatically correct and in the spirit of the Serbian language. I wish, dear Mr. Becic, to tell the MPs of the SNS and other MPs here that I agree with the representatives of the government when they offer such an explanation and that, gentlemen, I accept this argument. So, I believe that this formulation as it was is grammatically correct and in the spirit of Serbian. Dear gentlemen, I think it's okay to provide this kind of consent, when we have one of these kind of evaluations to say to someone who did the right thing, well done, you did the right thing. I don't see any reason why in the opposite direction when we, for example, are doing the right thing, so the amendments are being accepted, the SNS MPs are now rebelling because our amendments have been accepted. I am pleased, Mr. Becic, that both Mr. Petrovic and Mr. Atlagic will, but so will you, Mr. Becic, and Mr. Babic, despite being against, voting for this bill as a whole, honored gentlemen, will vote for all 13 of our adopted amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28635	Time. You've become psychic, Mr. Pavicevic, so you know whether I'm against it or not. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28636	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 11 amending Article 64 talks about air navigation service providers, and we, acting on amendments to paragraph 3 of this Article, wanted to amend Article 3, so that it is extremely necessary from Article 2 of this article to provide aircraft search and rescue services and to provide communication services, navigation and surveillance and air information, and we do not need to appoint from the Government, i.e. that the possession of certificates in cases of search for aircraft and rescue of persons is likely to require certification, because persons who possess and need certifications will probably be much more qualified to carry out complex tasks than persons who do not possess and verify. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, you have stated that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that European regulations governing the provision of air navigation services do not provide that it is necessary to possess a certificate in order to provide air search and rescue services, so here, that is why we have proposed this amendment, we want to contribute to the improvement of the law, we want to go one step further, because we really believe that the establishment of these certificates of search for aircraft and rescue of persons will be much faster and much more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28637	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Pavicevic, would you like a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28638	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Becic, honored guests, of course I want a word, because I need to use every opportunity. I think we are discussing here in the Assembly, especially when the occasion is this good, and the reason is that Mrs. Mihajlovic, on behalf of her ministry, on behalf of the Government, accepted this amendment by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and several other MPs, and I am one of them. The team, gentlemen, I just want to say to Mrs. Mihajlovic two notes now. Mrs. Mihajlović, you are right, we have shown our amendments one concern, here with this amendment, to respect the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. I think it's okay for you to remind MPs and citizens of that in your performance. But it's not right, I think, that then you minimize the importance of these amendments, because spelling, the grammar of our language is something that is very important and very valuable, gentlemen, I think. There is one more thing, Mrs. Mihajlovic, which I want to tell you here in one of my other notes. I believe that this approach of yours to debate this bill, which has provided for 13 of our amendments to be accepted, is a good reason to think about one of our proposals, but not the amendment, but, Mrs Mihajlovic, about a bill that squats here in the assembly procedure, and we have no reaction, and that is the bill on planning and editing of space and settlements. We, Mrs Mihajlović, have referred to the procedure of a completely new bill proposal and it is my expectation that after today's debate, when you showed, I think, an extremely good approach within our dialogue here, you will show this kind of approach and for the sake of our proposal that you will not discuss in the Assembly a competitive bill on planning in relation to one that, in December 2014, Mrs Mihajlović, was adopted in this National Assembly. This is just one note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28639	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28640	I only hope that you will have enough time, as you have had time to do a legal-technical order instead of legislation in parliament, which will make the legal-technical regulation of amending and supplementing the law, I hope that you will have time to come to the vote and vote for your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28641	I thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28642	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, fortunately, so the government has accepted this amendment, because I don't think the proposings would be present at the vote for their amendment. This is very rare for them, almost counting the number of times since 1,250 proposed amendments were on the vote. I volunteered for academic congratulations. It's not academically honest to say that the bill squats somewhere. The bill can wait for him to stand in the drawer, but to squat? How is the bill going to squat, I don't understand that academically congratulating definition in one sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28643	I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 14th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and honored guests, the amendment we have submitted to Article 14. has not been accepted. We have offered an argument to accept this amendment, but we have come up with one argument which, to inform the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs of the SNS, is, above all, acceptable to us. This is a good explanation why our amendment has not been accepted and that this amendment has not been accepted, dear gentlemen, will not be a reason for me to vote against this bill in full, respected gentlemen and Mrs Mihajlovic. This means, however, that MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, in the day of voting, honored gentlemen, will vote for the adoption of this bill as a whole. Of course, gentlemen, we will also vote for the adoption of this amendment, if we estimate by day of voting that there is room for further explanation for our argument on this amendment. If we estimate there isn't, we won't vote for it either, we accept the government's argument. Another thing I wanted to say to Mrs. Mihajlovic here, Mrs. Mihajlović seems to have never been a national MP in the National Assembly, so it is possible that some rules have been missed, some procedures, but as MP Zoran Zivkovic explained to the MP, Mr. Petrovic, that in the day of voting we do not declare the amendments that the government has accepted, but these amendments, their content becomes an integral part of the law, then I must say that in the day of voting I will not be able to vote for my amendment, nor Mr. Babic will be able to vote for my amendment because that amendment to Article 12, which we just spoke of Mrs. Mihajlović, became an integral part of the bill, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28645	I thank Mr Pavicevic, but dear professor, you know very well that Mrs Mihajlovic spoke about amendments that were not accepted. In order for all of this to happen, you need to be in the hall in the voting day. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Kovač, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 14 which is in Chapter 5. - Air traffic, section 2. – Public air transport and the names of members and members of 75 to 77 change. We have submitted an amendment to Article 77 which regulates the issue of an operational permit. This Article provides for conditions under which an operating authorisation may be issued by a company. Nine conditions are provided for to meet the company in order to obtain an operational authorisation. We predicted that points 5 and 9 should be deleted. Point 5 reads - His internal organization allows the application of the provisions of this article. Point 9 reads – It has a business reputation. We believe that the position of Article 77, paragraphs 1 to 4, and paragraphs 6 to 8, already provides for a sufficient level of guarantee that a company can appear as an air carrier, i.e. an operating licence can be issued. We do not consider it necessary to prescribe the conditions laid down in points 5 and 9), which provide for an internal organisation which allows the application of the provisions of this article and the business reputation. This is what we suggest especially given that these points assume that someone should carry out an additional assessment and that no one is meant to carry out that additional assessment and by what criteria. In that case, certain discretionary powers are given to someone we do not know who they are, and in that sense there may also be certain abuses. The amendment is not accepted because the conditions for issuing an operational authorisation are fully in line with the provisions of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, No 1008/2008, which the Republic of Serbia is obliged to apply under a multilateral agreement establishing a common European aviation area. If the application of that Regulation required these two conditions to be accepted, then it was necessary to further specify who it is to appreciate the degree of the internal organisation of a company and the degree of business reputation and by which criteria. Because if we have in mind that our country is in an invisible position, on a scale by corruption, then we have to predict all conditions and all elements that will reduce any potential for corruption, for discrimination and for abuses in the application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28647	Thank you. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Becic, Honored Minister Mrs Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 15. It's a bill of law. This amendment is one of the 10 amendments that we have submitted, which have not been accepted. This means that a smaller number of amendments are not accepted. This again means that we are very pleased with the number of amendments accepted and that we have contributed, Mrs. Mihajlovic, not only, as you say, to correct this bill in terms of language, spelling and grammar, but I think, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that we have contributed to two more things here. It is one thing that we have influenced the MPs here, but the MPs of the SNS, Mr Babic, Mr Micin or Mr Atlagic did not have a hearing about it, that there is little debate about tightening criminal policy. Mrs. Mihajlovic, when you talk about what is contained in our accepted amendments, let's remember that one of our amendments regarding stricter criminal policies has been adopted. It's not a question of language now, it's a question of something else. And, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, another thing -- efficiency, article 77 will change. Instead of "24 months", it will be "18 months". Mrs. Mihajlovic, I'm glad that on the proposal for a law that you defend in the National Assembly here, we had no reason, and here is the occasion, to write the amendments "be deleted", we really didn't. It's a good bill, and now it's even better. But I ask you to remind the People's MPs of the party whose vice president you are that the amendments have been adopted here "be deleted", Mr. Becic. Jorgenka Tabakovic adopted our two amendments "expunge". Every time Mr. Micin, Atlagic or Babic said it was "expunged", so Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, the governor of the National Bank said - yes, yes, yes, gentlemen and "wipe" twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28649	Thank you. The word has the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28650	I will remind you, Mr President, that this amendment reads in Article 15 of the amended Article 78 in the words "less" are replaced by the words "less". Where did you see this and criminal policy and delete all this argument that has been made in the past two minutes? Have we become a congregation where every MP can talk about what he wants? Well, if anyone wants to honor the Serbian Progressive Party properly and properly, first, that one must turn to his right hand, so he can say, "Man, don't insult the National Assembly, don't insult your colleagues by calling them primates, cattle, such and such." Hate is something that's like a boomerang. He's gonna spin around my head or Mr. Wolf's head, but he's gonna go back to whoever pops that boomerang. It will come back at that moment, not when I want it, but when the citizens of the Republic of Serbia want it. In the election, when they recognize that hatred, when they recognize it there, I can't define it simply, I'm not professional enough to define these things. Statistics, however, is a matter that can learn a lot from. Here, I see some today boasted of 6% of the amendments adopted and 6% of the support. I agree, but look here – Zoran Babic, head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, proposed 51 amendments, adopted 45% or 88%. So, the Serbian Progressive Party has 88% support. Here, I admit, some 6%, and the Serbian Progressive Party 88% support, the same mathematics and the same way as the amendment is viewed. It's just that for someone, it's a 6% mental noun, and we don't play with those percentages. We get these percentages in elections, not on the street, not on any Ukrainian and Bosnian scenario, but on polls, as we should, by election will, respect the electoral will and when it was both, or in the future, whatever, because we respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I call on all Members of the People, all present in this room, do not belittle the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by accepting and propagating something that is not, do not accept, do not put value on being able to vote from cafes, from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki or from where. It's against the law, and what's against the law is crime. Crimes from these assembly halls and these benches must not be propagated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28651	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Please don't ask me to interrupt the distinguished professor, because he speaks so inspiredly as if he believes it. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Do you want a replica? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Replica obviously. But he didn't mention your name and name, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Here, and Mrs Mihajlovic confirms the same that I have the right to reply. Mr. Pavicevic, I understand that you are truly inspired today, but please don't. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28652	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, of course I suggest that this amendment be not accepted, because as explained in the explanation, it is the basic form of the proposal "s" and not "s". Let me just say two sentences for the team. Amendment promoters have proposed this form that benefits us neighbouring countries. The same amendment promoters bomb us on a daily basis with the proposal "worker", "worker". That's what the neighbouring state tells us in a dictionary like that. In our own dictionary, we say, on page 327 of our dictionary book, that it means doing it. I ask Mr Pavicevic not to use it in this Assembly anymore, because the Croats say educational worker, and he will also introduce us tomorrow words instead of travopas sheep, and the day after tomorrow instead of lightning train, and in the day after that, instead of the conductor "munnicarrtobusc". Now, ladies and gentlemen, you see from which dictionary he puts us here every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28653	What would you say, Mr. Pavicevic, is that of the people – and the dead end of a grain is found, so you too have managed to mention your name and name from so much pronunciation. Here, you have the right to a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: What grain? ) Mr. Stefanovic, I quoted the People's Proverbs and I didn't mean anything by it, and I didn't mean anything by it. Please don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Becic, Mrs Mihajlovic and the honored guests, MP Mr Atlagic is wrong and I know why he is wrong. Because Mr. Atlagic uses the dictionaries of the '50s, in the '60s, gentlemen. And here I have one dictionary standing on my desk, it's the 2007 "Mother of Serbian" dictionary from Novi Sad, respected gentlemen and Mr. Becic. In that dictionary, here it says, the dictionary which language Mr. Atlagic - the dictionary of Serbian. And he's got a fine term - to work. So someone can work, work. And here's what it means to do, honored gentlemen, based on the Serbian language dictionaries -- to work actively, to do something, to do something at all, to do some work, to do some work, to do something. Dear gentlemen, it says, the opposition that works. Now, here we are, Mr. Atlagic, Mr. Becic and Mrs. Mihajlovic, the opposition that works, we use the words that are listed here in the Serbian language dictionary. And every time, gentlemen, when we notice that in a bill of law we have disrespect for our language, we will, understanding that our obligation as MPs is, and by doing so, to intervene, Mr. Becic, an amendment. I can't understand how Mr. Babic finds political hatred in that kind of action? And Mrs. Mihajlović, for example, does not find it, but she is reasonable to say – of course we will accept something that is in the spirit of the Serbian language, respected gentlemen, Mr. Becic and especially Professor Atlagic here, to suggest to him a little more recent edition, from 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28655	I thank Mr Pavicevic and apologize if you, like Mr Stefanovic, have misunderstood my intruder. You're not. Thank you. Because I really didn't mean it, and I was happy to give you my word, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28656	When in a political manner that should be dominated by culture, arguments, dialogue, respect, you call your colleagues primates, cattle, garbage, like you did, then those acts that you, and the actions, are turned into crimes, Mr Pavicevic. Now, that's what your occasional political behavior can describe.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28657	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the High School of Smederev, who are currently following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Replication to Mr Pavicevic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28658	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I am pleased that my previous speaker is using this issue, but I must warn you, your MPs and the scientific public who is following this, unfortunately, that Mr Pavicevic is wrong. Reason number one - I use the 1971 Serbian Mother's Dictionary, with six books, here they are, I brought all six, and he only uses one. In book six, let me say, on page 650, the worker says - worker. I ask the gentleman in front of our scientific public, not only the scientific but also the citizens of Serbia, who in Serbia speaks the worker? Every citizen of ours says, "Worker." Secondly, in Croatia, Croatians say – educational worker. That's what you know, Mr. Pavicevic. And they say "s" and not "s" and "a" you took out of their language. And you've been trying to push us around here for days. Croatian literary language, which does not exist. And please, and I know that you are following it, although you are a docent, our Serbian Academy is issuing a dictionary called the "Serb Croatian Dictionary" because there is no Croatian, there is only the Serbian language that the Croats borrowed from us Serbs. So much so you know. And you won't be able to push those words away, because you'll never tell the citizens of Serbia that they work but work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28659	Thank you. The word is by MP Marijan Risticevic, a replica to Mr Pavicevic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm simply surprised not to say it and offended, because one academically decent doctor, or docent, both expressions are correct, failed in his amendment to decide when to use the "s" proposal and when the "s" proposal. So, because of these students upstairs, future students, whom such students can teach, I am obliged to say that the proposal "s" is used, if academically we will use it honestly, given that the amendment proposal also proposed the law on higher education, the proposal "s" is used in front of the words that start with s, z, g, etc. Everything else is used the proposal "s". So much so that one farmer has to warn one professor, one high school teacher, one doctor, or a docent, to warn him of Serbian spelling, when the proposal is "s" used, and when the proposal "s". If they really wrote these amendments, then I have a grudge. But I believe it's not the mistake of the previous speaker, that it's the mistake of someone who writes them the amendments, and so I think that's the mistake they're worth sharing. As for the word “work, ” I don’t mind using it. I understand both languages. So I think it's right for their wine to say that the vincillators work and winecule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28661	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has been given by the esteemed Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Becic, Honored Mrs. Mihajlovic, Honored students, students, teachers, teachers from Smederev High School, I now want to say three things in this replica. First of all, I don't understand when a professor, in this case Mr. Atlagic, doesn't appreciate the diversity and richness of his language. We have some synonyms here, gentlemen, we have a lot of words that have the same or similar meanings. When we say “act, ” I think it is good that we can say and“ do, ” to use another term, gentlemen, not to diminish the value of our language by, for example, other MPs, and by directing students here to use a single word exclusively. So what is it, gentlemen? Another thing, Mr. Atlagic, we are gentlemen in 2015. In 2015, the rules of the Serbian language Dictionary adopted in this century apply, gentlemen. Well, we're not going to apply the 1971 rules that are exceeded, gentlemen. We need to stick to this dictionary and this spelling, whatever you think of it, until it changes. In particular, I do not understand the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic, who, in every speech I speak, is always aimed at improving the text of the bill, finds hatred. Dear gentlemen, for this year and month of work in this National Assembly, I have never said a single offensive word for a single MP, not a single guest, for a single guest who came to this National Assembly in the name of the Government. Dear gentlemen, I think it should be appreciated here, Mr. Becic, instead of being called political hatred, as Mr. Babic does, very inappropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28663	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Nice year 1971, that's when I was born. Here you go. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, and please, Mr Babic, let's try, after your replica, to return to the subject and to this amendment that we have, which is currently an amendment to Article 15. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28664	There seems to be a replica in a cultured, domestic film that says – it will forgive you, Žika, for beating you. I'm sorry. He'll forgive you, Djura, for beating you. Now, I should probably apologize to Mr. Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Sutanovac who here in this auditorium room called us cattle in front of the media today and primates. Who's inappropriate here? Why Mr. Pavicevic did not answer the Rules of Procedure and say – Mr. Zivkovic is ashamed of you for whatever reason you use such expressions. No, instead of reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Pavicevic applauded. As soon as he applauded, you agreed, Mr. Pavicevic, and that's a shame. Well, that's inappropriate. With what right do you enter in front of your students? What right do you address these children at the gallery? So, what's more than political hatred? When did we escape the moon when we had to face arguments? There were more ministers here in the government of Alexander Vukic than there were MPs on that side of the hall. Has one ugly and rude word ever gone from this side? No, it's not, but that's why you applauded, laughed, it was nice to meet you, you simply melted yourself by insulting, because your colleague, your president, whose deputy, he called people in this room primates. Is that what you call your students? Is that what you call your colleagues in college? And you still expect me to make an apology for all the bad things you've brought into this assembly, and it wasn't you, but it was the ones who put you on the list. Otherwise, recycled politicians, recycled ideas don't go anywhere anymore. They don't pass in Serbia either. Get out on the street and you'll see what the citizens of Serbia say about your politics and all that, about what you do and what you do. But as a representative of the SNS and as the first among the equal, among these people, I won't apologize for you insulting us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28665	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I am pleased, as chairman, that I have now heard from Mr. Pavicevic of what you have said, well, I am not. So he fenced himself from what was said. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go. Mr. Pavicevic, the same thing I said to Mr. Babic, please return to the amendment with this replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Mihajlović and the Honorable guests of the Ministry, I would like first of all to ask Mr. Becic not to interpret something I am saying, and especially not to say that I said something that I did not say, Mr. Becic. Please don't do this as chairman. It is your duty to stick to article 108. Rules of Procedure to take care of order at the session, which means that you do not enter any incorrect information, your interpretations except when you speak and participate in the debate on the agenda point. Second thing, gentlemen, in this hall of the National Assembly, I don't applaud honored gentlemen. It takes something terribly important, big and honorable to happen, something so top-notch to applaud, I mean in this room, because the big hall of the National Assembly, gentlemen, isn't a rally hall or a rally hall for any party, any group of people. This is a hall where we need to discuss how to make the bill we're discussing the best possible, gentlemen. When a consensus may be provided, general on this matter, then perhaps it is an opportunity for applause, and this is certainly not an opportunity, honored gentlemen, to take part in the debate, for example, one MP, and that is what the head of the largest parliamentary group here calls political hatred. I've never shown a single sign of hatred or disrespect here, gentlemen. No gesture, no word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28667	Thank you. I didn't expect it from you, Mr. Pavicevic, because the camera recorded it when Mr. Babic said it, you said, well, it wasn't me. It's okay. We're going back to the amendment. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Please, you don't have the right to a replica. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: I am mentioned as the head of the parliamentary group? Isn't that clear enough? ) Not enough, you must as mentioned on the other side of the parliamentary group that does not exist, you can only by amendment. You want to do business? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28668	Article 107, paragraph 1, at the meeting of the National Assembly, is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly defends itself, Mr. Becic, with truth. A few times ago, the truth was told. When Mr Pavicevic said that in no word, he showed no gesture of hatred, it is simply not true. Two days ago, when we were discussing this very law and the most recent example when we were discussing this very law on amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act, when I asked – to whom the good results of Er Serbia I spoke do not correspond here and in this room. Neither Mr Stefanovic nor Mr Markovic answered. Two fingers high in the air were raised by Mr Pavicevic. Well, what else is that, Mr. Vienna? Well, what else is that, but hate for a public enterprise owned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What is it, but political hatred for what this Government of the Republic of Serbia does and this congregation majority? Isn't that enough gesture, two fingers high? He answered like he did at school. The first among those who say we don't love our country and we don't love what this country does. And now, after two days he says, no single gesture. Well, you don't think our brains hold us for more than two days. We remember both 2001 and 2002 and 2003. We remember many things and many irregularities that were done both by Mr Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic and we will remind them of that, of course, always and everywhere, until they forget those two fingers and come down from the bottom. You can't hate your country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28669	I thank you, and I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gordana Comić, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic together submitted together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Vice President Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and honored guests, I am sorry, I must now admit that the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, is no longer here to hear, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that our amendment, to Article 24 of this proposal, is accepted, gentlemen respected. Here's what the government wrote. The amendment shall be accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment. I think Mrs. Mihajlović, that this is the approach that you are applying to the debate under this proposal of the bill for congratulations, because it is obvious that someone was dealing with the text, dealt with the content and the reasonable way he concluded that we must work together to correct this text. My hope, Mrs Mihajlović, is once again to tell you that you will have the same approach to apply on a legislative proposal that, let me repeat, is being heard in the assembly procedure for more than a month now, and that is a legal proposal which I also think can be very innovative, can go to the general good, when we talk about our political community, which is a bill on planning and editing space and settlements. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I could now very precisely state to you here what the difference between our proposal and the law that is now in force, which was adopted here in December and changed after two weeks, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Now I have here at nine points what might, I think, convince you, but I agree today is not the subject of our proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, which mostly has been done by the President of the Council for Urbanism, the New Party, Mr Kresic, but I hope that thanks to your actions and influence...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28672	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28673	... and that legal proposal to be found here as a part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28674	I thank you for being aware that you were not talking about the subject. Members of the 25th Amendment were brought together by the MPs... (Marian Risticevic, from the place: E, hold on a second.) You have to sign up, Mr. Risticevic. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I am registered. You weren't in the system when I moved on to this amendment. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Here you go.) Now, it is. The word is from the people sent by Marjan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Professor Atlagic is my witness that I signed up in time. Nothing is disputed and that you skipped me, however, but the second time academically decent doctor used the term "stupid" of the bill. I have to correct again because of students and high school students who will be future students, that paper, or can't "shut", can "wait" in a drawer, can be "pulled" in a drawer, etc. The term "sucks" out there somewhere, it's completely wrong. It can be “worked out, ” I will agree, with that term, even if it is not ours. It can also be “winned. ” It can be squatted during the winemaking, because the term “shuts” means – to be bent, to be in a folded position with its legs in its knees and hips. In this way, for example, vineyards are cut, vineyards are bound, grapes are harvested, but no bill of law can be heard. Vineyards can squat, vineyards can squat, vincillators can squat, but bill proposals can't squat, and I can't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28676	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28677	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, article 25 speaks of special actions in air traffic carried out with compensation. The Proposer of the Law in Article 95 says - In order to carry out specific activities in air traffic with compensation, the air operator shall submit a declaration to the Directorate on the ability to carry out these activities, and if it is to carry out specific activities in air traffic, high risk, the aircraft operator must also possess a certificate of compliance with the conditions for carrying out those activities; that I do not read the article until the end. We have suggested that the word "provide" be replaced by the word "proof", because we believe that in order to carry out specific activities in air traffic with compensation, the aircraft operator is obliged to submit to the Directorate not a statement which is a unilateral act, but a proof of competence, that means that the documentation is necessary for such a specific type of activity. You have rejected us by reason that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the EU Commission regulation just provides for a declaration of competence to carry out specific activities in air traffic carried out by the operator. We think that this statement could potentially be a risk, because it's a unilateral act, I say, that the airline says he's capable and has technical equipment and a professional ability to carry out this particular type of air transport, transportation, whatever. I think it is much better that although the Commission regulation is recommended to be a statement, there is no reason why we should not be more restrictive than the European Commission, because we should not be more liberal, and we can be more restrictive and I think it will be for the benefit of air traffic security, so I hope that the minister will reconsider one more time before the definitive rejection of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28678	Thank you. The 25th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28679	The amendment reads in Article 25, in the amended Article 96, after the word "confirmation" is added, it is stuck. The reason for the acceptance is that the amendment is accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendment, and it says that this amendment is intended to set the example and text in the spirit of the Serbian language and of course, once again, is not the essence of this law, but language is a very important means of communication between people, in the definition of relationships, in how something should be applied. I think our contribution was significant this time too. Of course, there have been some other amendments, and it is certain that one good atmosphere in parliament, an atmosphere where hate is not produced by those who blame others for hate, can certainly contribute to making this parliament a better voice in Serbia than it is, that Serbia, as such, will be in a better position in the international community than it is. I agree that she's in a solid voice right now, but she can be much better, of course. It must have been a much better voice than it was in the 1990s, when the atmosphere in parliament was partly like the one that some representatives of the ruling majority are trying to produce today, but like then, so today we from the opposition and the 1990s, and also for those of 2015, we are ready to show that Serbia is a civilized country where both what is international and what is Serbian...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28680	Time, Mr. Zivkovic, even though you're not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28681	... And that's in this case language.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28682	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28683	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I commend the government first for accepting this complicated amendment, to add a few words after the word. I think it's very valuable attention, and I've already said that spelling is two different opinions depending on who wrote them. I believe that they did it alone, and I want to commend the government whenever there's a chance to accept the opposition amendment, if it's as good as this one, if it's as complicated as this one, I believe that you should be added, so perhaps even though they're too valuable to try, include the opposition in some constructive discussion. As for the hatred that these amendments have been explained to us, I don't remember anyone on this side hating anyone. I don't remember any ugly words about her being sent to a microphone in this conference since 2014, since we've been here, so that the remarks on how MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia are spreading hate like those of the 1990s absolutely don't stand. We didn't call anyone cattle or primates, and even I didn't take offense to the word "receive" or "receive" because it's accentuated in Nis in various ways, so maybe it's "received" someone meant to take the word, like when it was taken -- to receive a 525 thousand-euro subsidy, to have an apartment in Vratar of 500 000 euros thanks to your previous term as Prime Minister. Maybe the word "receive" is wrongly spoken, so it refers to primate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28684	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28685	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is actually the paradigm of today's debate and today's amendments that we are discussing today. So I'd like to take the opportunity to read it. In Article 25, the amended Article 96, following the word ‘confirmation’, is added to the word ‘confirmation’. So it's clear to everyone here that it's about the ultimate technical amendment, not the fundamental attempt to fix this law. But that's not what's particularly important. The amendment is an amendment, the amendment is accepted and we move on. But there's no need for praises and now some epic stories, and I don't know what kind of effort it's made to make this amendment so engaged and eventually accepted. I would like to take the opportunity and, Mr. Chairman, to say that I am sorry that one MP today, the promoter of this amendment, has to show by who knows which way of his hatred and his dark side and that again, I repeat, who knows which way he begins to insult the MPs and the National Assembly, but also the citizens of Serbia, so. But we will endure, as we have suffered so far, all these insults for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28686	Thank you. The 27th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Becic, Honored Mrs Mihajlović, the distinguished guests of the Ministry, I think it is very good and I am glad that I, not only you, Mr Becic, can inform the SNS MPs first and foremost that in the day of the vote, voting for the bill in full, will also vote for the content of the amendment that has been accepted, which is an amendment to Article 27 of this Bill proposal. I think, gentlemen, it is very good that Minister Mihajlovic, by accepting both this amendment and other amendments of ours, I think, first of all, to the MPs of the party whose vice president is that the debate, that the amendments, that dialogue, even if someone described them as epic or I don't know what, is always useful in our National Assembly. Our National Assembly, gentlemen, as we have spoken here many times is a central political institution. We here need to keep discussing, keep dialogue, focus on making our laws better. Well, let me also say to Mr. Muamer Bačevac, let's stick to some rules and spellings of the language we serve here, and not to Mr. Becic, that Mr. Bačevac here minimizes our efforts towards preserving the language that we use here. Here, and let me tell Mr. Bačevac, this is to be done, gentlemen, so how can it bother anyone? We're at the tongue, Mr. Bacevac, to work. Are you familiar with the term work? He's got literary work, he's got art, he's got life's work. It's all about some action, gentlemen. Now here at SNS we have objections to the use of those terms. It's, I mean, really inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28688	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Muamer Bacevac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28689	Dear People's MPs, dear colleague Mr Pavicevic, I think I've made myself very clear. I'm glad you're here to inherit and stick to your mother tongue, but this was about the essence. I'm glad you have suggestions. I was talking about a member who's extremely important in the essential sense. On the other hand, you have to understand me. I speak Bosnian here with my own language and heritage. I don't mind you wearing your own dictionary and using it that way. However, we get a completely different impression. The second impression is that there are more abuses than the desire for this thing to happen. It seems to me that you don't think or debate about the essential points or the essence, but rather stick to some literal things, which is your right again. You plant your tongue, you clean it, you use the words you think you should use. I don't mind. But again, I point out that I speak my mother tongue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28690	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Becic, Ms. Mihajlovic and the guests, I have not, in any sentence, resented Mr. Bačevac for the words used in his speech here. I just asked one question here -- how can someone blame us for sticking to rules, grammar, Serbian spelling? Another thing, Mr. Becic, to hear now Mr. Butcher. Mr. Bacevac when he says – I thought it was important to put some of the essential things here as the meaning of our debate, not the issues of language, which is precisely why Mr. Bacevac minimizes the meaning and importance of one language. I then ask, Mr. Becic, Mr. Bačevac, if Mr. Bačevac felt that there was something substantiative, very important for this bill, which he did not submit an amendment to that bill, and then to discuss the content of this amendment, that perhaps I tell Mr. Bacevic, this is indeed, when this amendment was adopted, it would indeed be a substantiative step in relation to what the proposal contained in that article, it seems to me to be the 6th of this law, rather than Mr. Bacevic took the word in the debate over my amendment to criticise the basis for my amendment, and to speak of the imaginary, imaginary, its amendment. How can he do that, dear gentlemen? Third thing, Mr. Becic, let me tell Mr. Bacec here, our amendment, to repeat once again, there are 23, so it's not all about language. I guess it's an important thing, Mr. Becic, for one law that will be a criminal policy. We here on a continuous basis, constantly fighting for a stricter criminal policy. It's part of our approach, a little more conservative, but we think it's right. The other thing, we are fighting for efficiency, so one amendment to Article 77 has been accepted, which corrects the issue of efficiency regarding this bill, Mr. Bacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28692	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Muamer Bacevac, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28693	Dear colleagues, I will remind you once again that this was an extremely important member. We were following this, to say the political art of Professor Pavicevic, out of content, that's what I wanted to suggest to this high house, and the content was the most important part of this law. The most important part of this bill is the safety of people using air transport. Believe me, this point, this added a new point to the most vital and contentable, the most substantial part, is the same Bosnian word, this law. I must say, it creates conditions for one good monitoring and monitoring of all those irregularities that can occur. My desire to propose an amendment has clashed with, I may say, my lack of knowledge of law, and the legal department has advised that I cannot do so. I really wanted this to not only remain at the level of these proposals, but that those people who report and report events in some way rewards. I think it is my right wish, and I think thanks to Mr Pavicevic, on the one hand, I have shown this brief debate the importance that these people are actually reporting these bad things or some kind of events that can do better security in air traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28694	The 27th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of this amendment, I will receive, if that can be called, all the languages used. So, I don't care who addresses this congregation in a language that looks like Croatian, I don't care who speaks Bosnian in an explanation, I don't care if anyone speaks the language they call Montenegrin or native in Montenegro. So, I think that's what foreign linguists confirm, all the variants of one and the same Serbian language, so if I need an interpreter for Bosnian, because there's only one authorised translator in Serbia, I'm going to call Republika Srpska and get an original interpretation. It doesn't matter, ladies and gentlemen, the people we use in the language we use here, it's important that we understand all these versions for me, and for international linguists, are variants of the Serbian language, and that's why I want to accept all these orders, all the variations spoken by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28696	The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović together submitted the 27th amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28697	Dear colleagues and colleagues, led by a desire to contribute to a more quality law and a better health response in air traffic, especially at the airport itself, my MP and I have suggested that it be extended and mandatory to introduce that one part of the employees, I meant most of it and I said there, the auxiliary staff be prepared and trained to provide primary medical assistance, thinking of rehabilitation. Given that airports are places where more serious hararium can happen, the law predicts that there is first aid and that, depending on the very definition of the airport, there are ambulances or several doctors. I think it's right that there is and to train most of the employees at the airport itself, that in conditions of major haematism, major accidents, in God's name, in such poor conditions, most of them can provide first medical assistance. I'm glad you all understand me very well here. I speak Bosnian, which is an indigenous language, which has confessed...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28698	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28699	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28700	And I ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28701	I didn't replicate my colleagues... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28702	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Department of Legal Sciences of the University of Novi Pazar, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 27, which is being amended by Head 6 – airports. The amendment concerns Article 131 which regulates the obligations of the provider of groundhandling and self-service services under contract. Article 1 of this Article says – the holder of the land service permit or self-service permit shall be obliged to ensure continuity in providing ground service or self-service services, and that the services for which the licence has been granted to him in a fair and non-discriminatory manner. The amendment was proposed to replace the words "in a fair and non-discriminatory manner" with the words "in line with good business practices". The formulation of the bill "honest and non-discriminatory manner" does not constitute a legal standard known in our positive law and in our legislation, and the amendment suggests that the holder of the land service permit granted to him in accordance with good business practices, since this term is clear and in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia the generally accepted legal standard as a subsidiary source of law. The amendment was rejected by reason – an amendment relating to the amendment of Article 131 of the Law is not accepted for the reason that the term "in a fair and non-discriminatory manner", which has been adopted by Council Directive 96/67 EC since 15 October 1996, is not the same term proposed in the amendment. We do not dispute, and we have concluded this together, the promoter and we in the debate in principle, that most of this law is in line with European regulations and with the obligations that Serbia has made to sign international documents and ratify them. However, we do not think that it is in any case similar literally to the translation of international acts and that this translation should coordinate with the generally accepted terms in our legal practice and our legal system and therefore we have proposed this amendment and amendments in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28704	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28705	You said part of it yourself. The explanation is this. It's really two different ideas. The fact that you have also proposed what is in line with the Directive, i.e. European regulations, which is certainly in the amendments and additions to the law. You may have been able to add the terms that you have now proposed, along with what is in the article, but you have not given such an amendment. Anyway, we can't replace each other, because it's really not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28706	The word has been given by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28707	I would just like to add that I think that the term "compliant with good business practices" includes two terms that are foreseen. It shall include fair performance and shall include that discrimination must not be carried out. If it is in line with good business practices, these two terms do not come into consideration, i.e. the behaviour that implies these two terms. We think this is a bit wider and a little sharper marking the way the service provider behaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28708	Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Becic, respected Mrs. Mihajlović and honored guests, may seem a little unusual, but I am not sorry that this amendment has not been accepted because the government is in response to why it does not accept the amendment, I think, offer a good argument and we accept that it was not necessary for this amendment to be accepted. I think that it should be recorded here in particular and our approach, I see that Mr. Martinović, who did not participate in the debate this morning, did not have a replica, that he knows that it is no problem, gentlemen, when someone thinks that the other one has done a little better and that it is said – see, this is well done, so there is no problem, because we are here to come to some good work together. Once again, Mr. Atlagic, I would like to mention here this term that is related to action, because there is one sentence, I think, which is very well known to all of us here, which is that "the end of the work is beautiful". That means, gentlemen, that all of us here need to be focused on this law, when it is passed, I think today or in the voting day, I don't know when Mr. Becic will schedule it, that we all will be satisfied with the final version of that law, or the content of that law, when we adopt it here. It will mean, gentlemen, that even the citizens understand, that all of us here who work in the National Assembly are committed to our work, that we are committed and then the citizens, I think, will more value the institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and never, I think, must forget, that it is our central political institution. An institution that enjoys the most dignity and Mr. Becic, once again, the sanctuary of our political life.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28710	Thank you, my dear professor. Members of the 31st Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this amendment, I would like to say in one sentence that we accept the government's explanation why this is one of the ten unaccepted amendments and in the day of voting I will not vote in favour of this amendment. I accept the argument that came from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28712	Thank you. Members of the 37th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 37th amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Prof. Nebojsa Petrovic submitted to the 41st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 45th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 50th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 53rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28713	I'd like to ask the Minister to give me an explanation after my presentation. I think you've made a mistake here or we're not thinking the same way. Therefore, Article 192, which is referred to by Article 54 of the Amending Law, speaks of a second-degree consideration of health skills. You say in Article 192. – a person who is not satisfied with the assessment of his health skills can apply for second-degree examination of the health skills of the Directorate, who educates a second-degree medical commission composed of independent experts. An application for second-degree medical examination shall be submitted within 15 days of the date on which the person receives an act on the assessment of the medical ability to act on a request for second-degree examination of health skills, the fee of the Directorate shall be paid. We have suggested that at the end of the sentence of Article 1 I repeat - a person who is not satisfied with the assessment of his health skills can apply for second-degree examination of the health skills of the Directorate, who educates the second-degree medical board composed of independent experts, add sentences – from the list of experts of doctors who have the right to examine health skills and did not participate in the assessment of health skills whose second-degree examination is required. You replied – the proposed amendment is not accepted since the same attitude emphasized that the second-degree medical commission is made by independent experts, no one disputes. These experts do not have a certificate of the right to examine health skills, but are already engaged at hoc. I think you're making a lot of mistakes. Why? Because first-degree medical boards, they're specific medical examinations, they can be flight staff, they're specific people who are doctors who are licensed to examine these people. Now, if someone has an internal problem and an internalist first-degree licensed doctor who said he wasn't capable, on a first-degree committee, he complains and now goes to an intern who doesn't have a license, has no idea what's restrictive in his doing business. You give him a second degree. I think you're making a lot of mistakes. You should accept our amendment, because our amendment says, yes, it's okay not to be the same as it was on the first-degree committee, but it must have the knowledge of the specific skills and knowledge needed for that specific kind of review. He can't just be a specialist in that area, an expert. An independent expert is an intern doctor, a cardiologist who works at KC, but a cardiologist who works in a first-degree commission who evaluates these specific profiles of people who do certain jobs, he's been through some training and he's using some restrictions for those people who come to these exams, and they're not our property that we don't do this work. So I think you should accept, or we don't understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28714	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28715	Just a little supplement. The list of experts or centres is licensed by the Directorate. They are the ones who license the centres from which experts will come to conduct such examinations. Therefore, both certain rules or certain sublaws will be dealt with. So, and how will the centre be licensed and whether there are those who can even be on the commission and do the job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28716	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28717	Madam Minister, we think the exact same thing just doesn't say in this article. Mine was the intervention that these people have to be licensed, because in that facility that has a license, it doesn't mean that they're all licensed. That doesn't have to mean that. A certain group of doctors in a particular department may carry out checks, does not mean that the entire facility has a license. It's personal. The medical committees are employed by people who have a personal license, an institution. It doesn't have to mean anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28718	Thank you. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bircanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mumer the Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28719	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since we as a Social Democratic Party truly inherit the idea of social democracy and that at the centre of our operation are workers, we are the view that indeed people employed in air-transport and in all services do not need to pay second-degree consideration and we think that this health care capacity, or second-degree assessment tax, should be free of charge. I know from my practice that in this way we will certainly have a more quality relationship between the doctor himself and the one who seeks a second-degree report, but it is still, this freeness could be, and indeed, another of the mechanisms that we have an easier transfer between the doctor and the patient himself and the abolition, practically, these fees would do a lot to raise the health capacity, that is, the health of the people who work there. I don't think it's established. Another argument is that really the reviews, the mandatory reviews, are first-degree and frequent, and therefore these second-degree examinations will be required, which will be complained about by individuals very often. I think we should go out to meet people who are hired and who have a really big responsibility not to, God forbid, steal some kind of mistake. Errors are also possible with doctors, and therefore, we require an amendment to abolish the payment of these taxis on a second-degree procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28720	Thank you. Members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 58th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 59th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28721	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to article 59 that regulates working hours and the right to the paid absence of flight controllers. This Article 59, following Article 199, is added to this new Article 199a. which bears the name as I have said. We have suggested that a new position of 5, which is to be added to that article after Article 4, which is to be added to the application of this article, is to be carried out by the ministry responsible for the issue in the field of working relations. We believe that, given the matter that this member regulates, it is necessary to explicitly specify which ministry is responsible for monitoring its application, in order to avoid any confusion or conflicts of jurisdiction, later in the application of the law. Given that this member regulates issues belonging to the field of labour law, it is logical to place supervision in the power of the ministry responsible for labour issues. The amendment was rejected for the reason that Article 250(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was rejected. The Air Traffic Act is clearly prescribed that inspection supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as sublegal acts adopted on the basis of it, is carried out by the Directorate through air inspectors. In addition to that, Article 2 paragraph 3. The labour law stipulates that the provisions of this article are also applicable to employees of the employer in the field of traffic, if the specific law is not otherwise prescribed. We've just had in mind that what's prescribed in Article 250(1). The air traffic law, and we wanted to isolate this part and put it in the power of the ministry that is within its jurisdiction has issues in the field of labour relations, because we believe that employees here, or flight controllers, must exercise the rights provided for by this member of employment, as well as all other employees, and that the control of the exercise of those rights is within the competence of the ministry responsible for working relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28722	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28723	If we wanted to stay at the level of the ministries, then it would have to be the ministry responsible for the area of traffic, according to the law, but this whole proposal, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act, if you noticed, we concluded together when we had a debate in principle, makes up of the Directorate now a completely independent regulatory body in all its areas of operation, including in the field of employment, or work. That's why it's actually the Directorate, but in any other variant, it wouldn't be the Ministry of Labour, it would be possibly the Ministry of Traffic. We're all now from the ministry to an independent regulatory body.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28724	Thank you. The 64th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Please, Madam Minister, would you like to make a statement under this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28725	It's all right. We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28726	Given that the proposing representative has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by the MPs: Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 68th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28727	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I thought that you would accept this amendment to article 68 relating to Rule 238, based on our debate from the day before yesterday, in principle, when we talked about the board of directors. I was then in the debate to point out that, since ministers are busy, that they form a board of directors, they cannot be held meetings because of the difficult possibility of synchronising time, justifiably, people have a lot of work to do. I then suggested that they be state secretaries, and you said that they would be independent experts and that you would aim for the profession to be the one in the board of directors, besides politics, to make decisions that are in the management board's jurisdiction. We have proposed, and I will say that there are five members of the board of directors who, on a proposal from the minister responsible for traffic affairs, appoints the Government for a period of five years and who can be re-appointed. The Management Board shall have a chair appointed by the Government, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Transport Affairs, among the members of the Management Board who has appointed and members of the Management Board have the right to compensation for their work, whose net amount cannot be more than a single total of average earnings, etc. We have suggested that, after Article 1, the positions of 2 and 3 are added – for the members of the board of directors may be appointed a person who has completed a college in the field of importance for the work of the Directorate, I think you will agree with me that this is the right thinking, because it is a specific activity, which should be carried out, and at least nine years of working experience on jobs that are important for air traffic security. I think we'll agree to that, too. The second position that he says - a member of the Management Board cannot be a person who, in a working or business relationship with any aircraft subject to control and supervision by the Directorate, as well as a person whose membership on the Management Board would constitute a conflict of interest on any basis. I really expected you to accept this amendment, because he just, let me just say, deepens your idea that you talked about in the principle debate, that they should be experts, okay, a certain college profile, a certain working experience that is necessary and secondly, to be independent, means they're not from some, I don't know, come on, JAT service, now I don't even know that branch is doing well so I can count all the companies and businesses that work within that system, but that there's no one who's connected, like we said - a member of the Management Board can't be a person who's in a working or business relationship with any air carrier that the Director controls and controls. So, we just potentiated that basic idea of yours from the principle debate, and you refused. Now I'm just wondering why, if I can get an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28728	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28729	First of all, to remind everyone that when we had a debate on the amendments and additions of this law in principle, you've advocated that it should not be like this but to be secretary of state. I explained to you that very often it happens that the state secretaries come and go with the minister and are very often political figures. What you have now proposed, therefore, has no need to stand because members of the Management Board are determined under the Law on Public Agencys very strict. Exactly what you're talking about now - and independent, not politically engaged, very professional in the area with a lot of experience. Therefore, we agree, but it already stands in the law, we already have that in amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28730	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28731	To be clear, to be clear, in the principle debate, I gave one of the variants, i.e. one of the options, since the basic idea of changing this member is that you gave because of the overwork of government members, i.e. Ministers who have been on the board of directors so far, which is the Minister of Transport, Minister of the Environment, not to look here in documents, the basic idea was if I can't, there are state secretaries, if your idea was to keep that way of solving problems and staffing on the Management Board. Normally, if you can choose who you want, you have a congregation majority. That's perfectly legitimate. And you bring these laws to the congregation by majority. You may be wrong somewhere, but well, you think you're right and that's a perfectly legitimate attitude. What we wanted was for that member to be clear. You say it says it in the law, it's okay, it's not a problem. If something doesn't happen right, you'll probably come here to the Assembly, so we'll change that member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28732	Thank you. Members of the 72nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28733	This amendment aims to increase, or tighten the minimum penalties for a lot of violations that are foreseen -- if they are to be punished, in three positions. In one, we have raised a minimum sentence from 300,000 to 500,000, in the other with 30,000 to 50,000 and in the third case from 50,000 to 100,000. Of course, prevention and a well-founded system is the most important thing in ensuring security in any part of life, of course, that the laws are the basic norm that should provide the basis for that protection, that the application of these laws, procedures, rules are applied continuously, without exception, but of course the threatened penalties are also part of the prevention. That is why Mr Pavicevic and I are always in favour of tightening the criminal policy, which is not our own goal, but is only part of a whole system that should lead to it in the field of aviation, as well as in some other areas, prevention, or protection at the highest possible level. I can express my satisfaction that the Minister, the Ministry and the Government have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28734	Thank you. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28735	For the same purpose, the amendment was submitted for the same reasons, and I hope that for the same reasons and accepted by the government. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28736	Thank you. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, Honored Mrs. Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests, this is one of the 13 amendments that have been accepted on this bill, and that we are the submissions of Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I. It is also very important for me to say here one thing in particular, that I cannot understand the participation in the discussion of Members of Parliament on the amendments adopted with the knowledge that they will vote in favour of the law, and that part of that law becomes an accepted amendment, and then in the discussion words against and not only from the round of SNS MPs, but also from other parliamentary groups. Mr. Bačevac was there, and so was Mr. Marinkovic, who has repeatedly, I think, told us here that he was dealing with the National Assembly with an idealess opposition who doesn't know what it is, etc., and here today we have, respected gentlemen, a picture of the work of a serious opposition, which is ideally directed, who knows what he's doing. Now I just want to check here with Mr. Marinkovic whether he remains in that position, for example, because I noticed that Mr. Marinkovic is wearing waves of different ideological orientations. For example, in a large hall, when it advocates great ideas of social democracy here, it finds no contradiction in relation to, for example, the action in an informal group, in an economic cocus, where I have noticed, dear Mr. Becic, that Mr. Marinkovic, on the right, says some ideas. The right center is the position of the New Party, gentlemen, and I think we are really consistent advocates of one system of ideas here, and the system of ideas always does one ideology.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28738	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28739	That's why it's important for me here, in the debate with the MPs, to clarify these waves. Do we know what ideology is, what an ideological message is, and are we consistent with that, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28740	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I see you need a few more minutes. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28741	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with their team, ladies and gentlemen MPs, in the 21st century, the century we live in and the country we live in has no place for ideological debates. At a time when the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Parliament are fully committed to the economic development of our country, but in accordance with the highest possible standards of social market economy or or ordoiberalism, which we want to implement in our country, I think that this is the only way and the only way we can bring together all social factors, to make one broader social consensus and dialogue in our country between labour representatives, representatives of capital and the state itself, so that we can expect to make a better and more quality environment, in order to have as many quality investments as possible, both domestic and foreign. As far as I know, the invisible arm of the market is like a concept, like a doctrine abandoned five, six years ago by those who advocated it most. I even think that even Adam Smith, whom Mr Pavicevic often quotes very often, did not think about this invisible arm of the market as some here want to interpret and that the invisible arm of the market will never be able to regulate relations on the market itself, relations between the entities on the market. So, one small effective, effective role of the state is always healing and, Mr. Chairman, it is called Ordoiberalism or the concept of a modern social market economy of the 21st century. So much for ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28742	Thank you. The word came from Dr. Muamer Bacevac. On what grounds, Mr. Butcher? (Muamer Bacevic, from the place: I am mentioned.) You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned. (Muamer Bačevac, from the place: I am mentioned by name and last name. Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28743	I have to answer because one really big topic that characterizes this society is the ideological approach and ideological direction. I must say that we as Social Democrats are basically really following this social democratic path and we are fighting for the rights of workers and all employees, but we certainly respect the rules of pragmatism. Indeed, in certain situations we cannot close our eyes, we must respond even to our damage, and we ourselves are workers. However, I would like to suggest to the esteemed professor Pavicevic, who is a politician and knows the political system well, that his options as he represents in a political sense cannot be taken by the head or by the tail. They're sometimes in some neoliberalist proposals, sometimes they're socialists, sometimes they're capitalists, but well, I can understand the opposition action and I can understand that way of approach. They're allowed to do anything as an opposition. But to criticize us for inconsistencies, I think it's nakaradic and I don't think there's any basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28744	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, Mrs. Mihajlovic and the honored guests, I believe that the ideological issue is always an important issue in our debate in our National Assembly. But to know what an ideological question is, I think it's important that we know what ideology is. Ideology is always about a consistent system of ideas, beliefs, values, opinions, which are consistently advocated by a group of people in society or in the National Assembly. In the debates here, this group is trying to convince those other people who have advocated some other system of ideas in their system. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I are absolutely consistent in advocating the system of ideas, beliefs, values and opinions of the New Party. We have nine major programmes, gentlemen, starting with the economic reform programme, the transformation of the health system and the education system. All these programs, gentlemen, are ideologically balanced. We carefully formed them, so that it wouldn't happen if we had some kind of ideological bounce. I think that if in this National Assembly there are some groups of people who consistently advocate their system of ideas, that this is Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I on behalf of the New Party. But in the parliamentary group on behalf of Mr Bacevac and Mr Marinkovic, I don't see it. Here when they report, it's a social democracy, it's a social democratic idea, and in the Economic Cocus, for example, whose member I am, it's all booming from the market, an absolute market. So it's true that we can tie some ideas into different ideologies, but it's true and it knows exactly where the boundaries between variations of different ideologies are and I'm the only one here that has one objection when we're having an observation about ideology.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28746	Thank you. Members of the 77th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28747	Article 77 defines a period within which it is to be written and started with the application of rules which are the workings of this law and reads: “The rules for the enforcement of this law will be laid down within 24 months of the date of entry into force of this law.” Our amendment was aimed at efficiency by asking that the 24-month deadline be replaced by 18 months, and that was accepted by the competent Ministry and Government. I think it's a good thing and that for a year and a half, it's quite enough time to end this procedure and that it's a cut of about 25% in the time that one was scheduled, not an additional effort by the government, but a reasonable time in which all these sublegal acts should be brought. I hope that by concreteising what the law says, in sublaws, there will also be regulations in the regulations provided for in Article 77 which will cover in the most precise way those areas that have not been covered in a good way so far. Once again, I have to remind myself of the inconsistencies of legal regulations and sublegal acts that, with one huge negligence and one arrogant behavior of the people at the top of the government, led to a helicopter accident that took place on March 13th of this year. We know exactly who the responsible persons are, and I hope that the D.A. will come to that knowledge, only if he respects what the facts are and what the law is. The Ministry of Traffic, which of course is not among the concrete culprits, has the obligation to regulate the matter more precisely, so that there are no misunderstandings in the following proceedings in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28748	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic submitted the amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28749	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 77, which reads: “The rules for the enforcement of this law will be laid down within 24 months of the date of entry into force of this law. ” We have suggested that the words “24 months” be replaced by the words“ 12 months” and that, following this Article 1, paragraph 2, which reads: “The Government submits to the National Assembly through the competent committee an annual report on the effects of the application of this law. ” First, we asked that the deadline be reduced for the adoption of sublegislative acts and regulations that would enable the application of this law, because it is necessary for the law to begin as soon as possible and for our air traffic to be integrated into the air traffic of Europe and the world, to comply with the law, which is also done by this bill and I hope by law, as it will be voted upon, to comply with European regulations and that the Ministry and the competent services have sufficiently examined European regulations and international acts signed and ratified Serbia, so that they can prepare rules for the application of this law within a short period of time. That is why we have proposed a deadline of 12 months, because we believe that it is enough for these laws to be made after such preparation and those rules for the application of the law and that it is necessary to apply it as soon as possible. Of course, it was rejected because an amendment for an 18-month period was accepted. We feel that this deadline is longer than necessary, but that's the government's position. This second part has been rejected. The reason for the refusal is that it is said to be rejected because these are transitional and final provisions. This obligation to submit a report to the National Assembly, which the Government is to submit, and should stand in transitional and final provisions, and we will put this proposal in each draft law, because the government does not respect its legal obligation to regularly report to the Assembly on its activities, as provided for by the law. It is necessary that the Assembly strengthens its control role. When we provided for the introduction of such a provision under another bill, we were given an explanation that an MP of interest might also ask a question. This is not about asking a question of one or five MPs who are interested in this, the government is obliged to regularly report to the Assembly on its work and on the results achieved by work, and we as MPs are also interested in the results of the concrete laws that we bring here. That's why we're going to stay in our position and always propose to install a member like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28750	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28751	Thank you, Your Honor, President-in-Office of the Government, I would just like to refer to the reasons for refusing the second part of the amendment, something has been said about this by my colleague, which is one of the members we propose in all the laws to introduce and the Government has persistently rejected, and that is to introduce in every law a commitment to the Assembly Committee, which also reports once a year on the effects of the application of the law. What's interesting is that the arguments in relation to the authorised promoter are changing. So this time we got a reason not to accept that part of the amendment because it's not according to methodological rules for making regulations. Since all the laws are passed by the Government, whose vice president you are, I ask you to try you, in accordance with these very methodological rules, to coordinate the answers you send us, as well as the laws. Last week, we passed here a law amending and supplementing the Industrial Design Protection Act, which, contrary to methodological rules, changed more than half the text of the existing law. When we drew attention to this attention to your colleague, Minister Verbić, then authorised by the Proposer, he defended himself with silence and did not know why the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law was made against these methodological rules. I ask you, as Deputy Prime Minister, to insist that the Government respects these rules in all cases, and not only when you think it suits you, so when you run out of arguments, more meaningful, celebular, superior and the like, then you write that this amendment is rejected because it is contrary to methodological rules for making regulations. So we had a whole law that was passed and written against those rules, so nothing. No one, obviously, took care of it either in the government or when it was discussed and the law was adopted, so I ask you to take a unique view of how you will reject this amendment, but I think, of course, it would be much better if you, as a government, and above all fellow MPs, could do as best to carry out the control function that we, as a parliament, have. Today it was discussed here at an assembly in parliament, where it was found that Parliament's control role has been at its lowest level in the last 15 years. We believe this is a good way to strengthen this control role of parliament. I again appeal to fellow MPs to accept it, regardless of the government's position not to accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28752	Prof. Nebojsa Petrovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 78th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr Arsenovic, Honored Mrs Mihajlovic and distinguished guests, this is the last amendment that Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to this bill. I'd like to say two things to Mrs. Mihajlovic on this occasion. One thing is, I'm not sorry that this amendment was not accepted because the explanation that came to us was very well written. I think it's a good idea to record it here in one sentence. The second thing, I will be very sorry, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, if your attention goes beyond the second bill of law that I mentioned to you here several times during the day, which is our proposal for a law on planning and regulating space and settlement. I think it would be very useful for you to send a sign to the members of the SNS to vote at the beginning of the next session of our National Assembly for this proposal to be included in our session's agenda so that, gentlemen, gentlemen, we can discuss a whole new bill, I hope, Mrs. Mihajlovic, in the same good way as we discussed today on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28754	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 21 May 2015, starting at 14.10 p.m. as the day for voting on agendas of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-21-0.u28755	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We move to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Air Traffic Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, abstentioned – one, voted seven, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: in the same text of Parliamentarians Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the MPs of Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic per article. 1, 6, 7, 12, 24, 25, 27, 49, 50, 72 and 77; National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanović on Article 3; National MPs Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandra Senić, Branko Karavidić, Ivan Karic, Dr. Blago Bradić on Article 7; National MPs Gordana Čomić, Jovanovic, Jovana Markovic and Goran Ciric on Article 12; National MP Prof. Dr. Neboj Petrović on Art. 21 and 41; National MP Goran Bogdanovic on Article 27; National MP Stefana Miladanovic on Article 37; National MP Zoran Zivkovic on Article 74; National MP Vladimir Pavicevic on Article 74, as well as amendment of the Committee on Physical Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications on Article 64. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic - the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic - the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 149 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was tabled by a group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic - the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic - the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 148 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted by a group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic - the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – seven against – 146 out of the total attendance of the 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 149 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 53rd amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 148 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 58th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 148 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 77th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Nebojsa Petrovic submitted to the 77th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th member of the amendments in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balsa Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put this draft law on amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156 against – there is no one with abstention – none who have not voted, of all 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLE 54. Article 1 Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal for authentic interpretation, we are moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly be declared without delay in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 19 May 2015, at 11.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 140 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 19 May 2015, at 16:30 p.m., pointed to injuries. 107th and 109th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 19 May 2015, at 16.39 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you.
