ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 125 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 international MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Konstantin Arsenović, Ljiljana Nestorovic, Dr Janko Veselinović and Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a period shorter than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, exclusively for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the Assembly to consider the draft agenda law as soon as possible, as set out in the request of 187 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened at the request of 187 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda, contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. We're going to work on a set agenda. You have received a bill submitted by MPs Maja Gojkovic, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Olgica Batić, Dragan Nikolic, Dragan Polovina, Vesna Simic and Neđo Jovanovic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I believe that they are injured, right now, just now, members of the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly of 283 and 284 concerning the regulation and description of the duties of the Members of the People's Parliament in our National Assembly. The National MP, one of us here, one of 250, Zoran Zivkovic, tried to fulfill his duties today in our National Assembly, but was prevented from entering the large National Assembly Hall for the 19th time in a row, and I believe that this hurt members of 283 and 284. Rules of Procedure. Three arguments I'd like to offer here for a possible decision on the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. First of all, MP Zoran Zivkovic and this is one novelty, respected presidents, filed a motion on February 20th by the Constitutional Court on an earlier constitutional appeal for violation of freedom of expression from Article 46 of our Constitution and Article 10. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, gentlemen. The second thing, here is the term used by Mr. Zivkovic, which gave him the distance from the session, that expression was used by many other MPs, and you respected presidents, and most of all Mr. Zoran Babic, but no one ever after Mr. Zivkovic, despite using that term had received no distance from the session. And the third thing, gentlemen, Mr. Babic himself, the head of the Administrative Board said he wouldn't be involved in preparing sentences of inappropriate expressions, and then I just call...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22814	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22815	All right, esteemed president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22816	Member of 283 and 284, as well as at the beginning of each session since MP Zoran Zivkovic was punished by the chairman for his serious insults, did we not determine whether the chairman or all MPs, because the strange term "stoko one" was used, and thus he was truly injured and the reputation of this parliament, and other MPs did not use such a term for respected fellow Members, at least not in this assembly. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, if you think we should vote, we'll vote, and we all expect the Constitutional Court's decision, we'll do it. We don't have to vote, all right. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22817	The Rules of Procedure, Article 107, Madam President, have been injured, as in 19 cases so far you have tried to educate MP Pavicevic, that what is a matter of the National Assembly's college is not concerned with members of the Rules of Procedure that he has advertised. I know that it is in the manner of some political former options, that the responsibility of divorce is to transfer responsibility to others, but this flagrant accusation of something that has never happened, at least I expected you to take away his word and warn him, because not once, for my seven years, as a MP, I am not, nor will I use the term "stoko one", what Mr. Zivkovic used and which is rightly punished and told him a reminder. But to accuse the entire parliamentary group, to accuse me personally of what I did not do, for what could have been done, and here they are as proof of the 248 MPs, who attended the sessions of the National Assembly, is a humiliation to the National Assembly. On the other hand, why Mr. Zivkovic, who got away from the session, should not seek Mr. Pavicevic's explanation, and neither can Mr. Zivkovic ask you for Mrs. Comic, she has the most experience with the distance from the session. She has distanced 60 MPs from the session, so see if she has given them solutions, so don't ask Mrs. Gojkovic, ask Mrs. Comic, because I think she is the right address with the most experience when they are away from the session and when it comes to punishment from the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22818	Do you want to vote on a member? (No) I thank you. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. I'm asking the motionary's representative, MP Olga Batic, does he want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22819	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning of this principle debate, you will allow me to briefly present the solution contained in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. First of all, I would point out in the first place, that the adoption of a law of this kind, by an urgent procedure, is contained in the necessity of creating assumptions, and all in order to ensure a meaningful procedure in which all persons, therefore, all natural, as well as all legal persons, under the same conditions and in an effective and effective way, will be established rights and on a law-based interest. In fact, Article 1 of this proposal of the law amends the applicable Article 29 and its second position by saying: “1. in March 2015, they replace the words "1. In January 2017," which shows the need to change the laws of established deadlines in which basic courts, but also municipal administrations, retain jurisdiction for the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and this said necessity of change, seems only for the sake of citizens' interest, in order to ensure, under the exact same conditions, the achievement of the rights and of the law of based interest, and in the first place, without the adverse consequences that would arise, with the note that such consequences would certainly arise if the valid solution remained in force, and all due to the dynamics of the establishment of a public notary service in the full scope and taking over the powers in the field of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. It mentions the full extent of the public record service, namely, at this point there is no truth to be said, or in other words, because of an insufficient number at this time of appointed public notebooks, citizens must not endure and that is precisely the essence of the above-mentioned amendment of the law and its Article 29, second-rate law on amendments and additions to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. This solution is not how slow and before the debate could be heard, absolutely no attack on public notation in Serbia, and it seems to me that such perception of things would absolutely be wrong and that would be one intentional action of replacing the thesis. My proposings, my colleagues, and I are leaving only from the point of view of protecting the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the only truth that needs to be made public. In addition, this proposed solution, and precisely because of the insufficient scope of the public record service, avoids the potential possibility of placing citizens in an unequal position in the territory for which public notebooks are appointed, i.e. for territories for which public notebooks are not appointed. In other words, if a valid solution is to be maintained, which is provided for on 1 March 2015, just as a time limit until the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts can, as a trusted job, be certified by the basic courts, i.e. to carry out basic courts, or municipal administrations as a trusted business in cities and municipalities in which public notebooks are appointed, then simply citizens of these cities and just after 1 March of these municipalities for the complete of the signature, manuscripts and transcripts could only address the public notaries for the reasons that they would, on 1 March and cease the jurisdiction of the primary courts, or municipal administrations, in the name of the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. On the other hand, without the changes we are discussing today, we would be in a completely different position to be citizens of those cities, or municipalities, where public notebooks are not appointed. Again, we are going back to that claim that it must not be the citizens who, at this point, will suffer the consequences of an insufficient number of designated public notebooks where a member of this bill, as it is stated, leaves enough time in Article 1. Article 2 of the same Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions, regulates the entry into force of this Act and provides for its entry into force the following day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" because otherwise, there would be no doubt that the consequences for the work of those bodies and organisations would be completely harmful. The good side of this proposed solution could also have a positive impact on both the size of the business and the revenues of the state authorities, on the revenues of the local self-government authorities without adverse consequences, i.e. without increasing the costs of legal and natural persons who exercise their rights and on the law-based interests precisely in the proceedings before those authorities. In the light of the statistics on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and respecting the interests of citizens first and foremost, this initially set transitional period should be extended until 1 January 2017, and precisely for the reason of giving the possibility to monitor the effects of the regulations and statistics overe. Where a valid solution is maintained until the start of the application of the provision in question referred to in Article 29(2). The law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts would also impose on citizens to resolve some other issues, and it seems to me that the answer to these issues by 1 March 2015 could not be obtained, and these are issues such as the possibility of a higher amount of public-book tariff, which would be inadmissible. Then, the issue of non-existence of taxis, which would also be inadmissible, as I would remind you that in providing unit certification services, local self-governments are applying the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which provides for a number of tax exemptions, and so the solution and in the coming period, we believe that it should be retained because it is in the citizens' interest. Then there would be a controversial issue and an increase in the volume of work due to, say, local and republican elections. Then, the issue of lack of sufficient capacity, etc. The fact is that this seems to be the reason why no hasty solutions would be made on the answer to all the issues that will certainly arise if the existing solution remains in force, and whose outcome in the final line would always be borne by citizens, and therefore we believe that such a bill is fully appropriate, completely meaningful and most importantly consistent with the interests of citizens. In fact, this bill carries one essential message, and this message has been sent to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is said that citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have to fear that, where public notebooks are appointed, that since 1 March, the tasks of the certificate can only be carried out with them, but in fact this solution changes that deadline and so that by the deadline provided for by this change they are completely free to carry out the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts, transcripts continue to verify both in basic courts and municipal administrations. Finally, when the current Act on the Authentication of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions was discussed in August 2014, and within the then set of laws, it was stated in principle that after 1 September 2014 as the day of the launch of the work of public notebooks in the Republic of Serbia, basic courts continue to carry out the certification tasks. In order to avoid the possible problems that would arise as a result of the transition to a new competence to carry out these tasks, as these problems, whose possible appearance has already been indicated, and to this day such problems cannot be eliminated nor can they be removed by 1 March 2015, and which day falls on the last day of this year, such a solution is necessary, such a solution is necessary, primarily from the citizens' point of view. I will remind all of us that since we are the very representatives of these citizens, from here we are primarily and most invited to protect their interests. And with this, I invite you all together to support in the day of voting the solution contained in this proposal for a law amending the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22820	The word is Dr. Vesna Besarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22821	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow MPs, today we have on the agenda to amend the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. It's a darkness we've already had a chance to express ourselves about. However, when the Law on public notebooks was adopted and the Law on public notebooks was applied, it was found that the deadlines provided for by these laws were inadequate. Namely, in Article 178. The law on public notebooks provides that within nine months of the date of entry into force, the minister will open a competition for the appointment of public notebooks and that the first hundred public notebooks will be appointed within one year of the date of entry into force of the law. In the next article, Article 179 provides that within 15 days of the appointment of the first hundred notebooks, the founding assembly of the chamber is to be held, in which the authorities of the chamber will be elected and the sublegal acts brought forward. So, by adding deadlines, we have here the first deadline of a year, plus a 15-day deadline. Finally, Article 177 of the same law stipulates that the remaining public places, and there will be plenty of them, must be filled in no later than one year from the day of the establishment of the chamber assembly. This period of one year is added for a year, meaning plus 15 days, plus one year, and it is clear that we are in a situation that we have to move the deadline, as proposed on 1 January 2017. However, I must say that in studying these regulations, namely this proposed regulation, we as the Social Democratic Party of Serbia have found that there are two illogicalities, or two things that should change in our opinion. First one's on the deadline. By calculating these deadlines a year, plus 15 days, plus a year, we cannot reach 1 January 2017, but by 1 March 2017. In this regard, we as a parliamentary group have also proposed, or accepted the Committee’s proposal to say: “1. In January 2017, he replaced the words ‘1. March 2017’. Another intervention that I would like to point to within our parliamentary group concerns the situation that in certain places, i.e. municipalities in Serbia in this period, in 2015-2016, there will be the appointment of a public notary by procedure provided for by the Law on Public Libraries. These public notebooks, which are not appointed today, when we pass this law, will be appointed in the next year or a year and a half, depending on the dynamics of the appointment. Then we'll have a situation of parallelism in those places. We will have the opportunity for citizens to choose whether to verify their documents, records, copies of public notebooks or to do so in a municipal, or basic court, or municipal administrations. On the line of what counterpart Batic just said, not wanting to put the unequal position of citizens in the places where public notebooks have been selected, in which they will be elected or elected within the next year and a half, we believe that the best solution is that in all places in our country in Serbia an alternative, parallel, option is left for citizens to choose whether their documents, transcripts, records, court certifications, or municipal administrations or public notary. The deadline is 1 March 2017, in our opinion. After that deadline, all those documents, records, prescriptions which fall exclusively within the jurisdiction of public notebooks will be able to be certified exclusively by the public notary. In this regard, we have submitted an amendment that we have attached, which is that, in addition to this date correction, for 1 March 2017, these tasks can be carried out by courts even after the appointment of public notebooks, and no later than 1 March 2017. So, in Article 29, paragraph 3 would continue, in which it is said – i.e. municipal administrations as a trusted business. We propose to add – jobs can also be done after the appointment of public notebooks, precisely to remove the situation that is unclear, how we interpret, that if public notebooks in those places are appointed in the meantime, whether citizens will continue to retain the possibility to verify their documents in courts or lose it by the fact that a public notary is placed in their place. Here, we draw attention to the Ministry for this amendment and our MP party SDPS, we will support the amendment of the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22822	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, who wants to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22823	I thank my esteemed colleague Besarovic. As far as the deadlines are concerned, we received some amendments this morning, where it is predicted that instead of 1 January 2017, the solution is to be adopted on 1 March 2017. When we, as authorized promoters, started making such an amendment to the bill, we felt that it might be better to start and take 1 January 2017 as the beginning of the year, so that date, in that sense, to round up. However, we are prepared to consider all amendments on the Committee on Justice, in particular regarding the change of that deadline, so, in particular, amendments that have been submitted, which require a change of words: “1. On 1 January 2017, in the words ‘1st. March 2017’. Surely, with due care, we will read and discuss such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22824	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22825	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that the JS Parliamentary Group will support the amendment and addition of the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions, for very practical reasons. Namely, if the current regulation of 1 March were to remain in force, all signatures, manuscripts, would have to be certified in public notebooks, and it should be borne in mind that today in a large number of municipalities and cities, there are still no designated logs, not because the Ministry of Justice did not want to appoint public notes in these municipalities and cities, but because no one reported to the previously registered public registers competitions in these municipalities and cities. It is an interesting fact that in several major cities, according to my knowledge, such as Užice, Smederevo, Kruševac, etc., we do not have public notebooks today, but these jobs are done in local authorities and in courts. The Single Serbia parliamentary group therefore believes that the delay in applying these rules goes to the benefit of citizens in all these municipalities and cities and where there are public notebooks and normally in cities where there are no public notebooks. I'm just going to tell the illustrations that, for example, in Pomorava County, which makes up six municipalities, only in Jagodina, there are currently two public notebooks, while in Paracino, Ćupria, Despotovac, Svilinca, Rekovec there are no public notebooks, so citizens for the same jobs, for which they have to have some documents certified, must in these municipalities address the courts and local authorities, local administrations, and in Jagoda public notebooks. That is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group welcomes the proposal proposed today and included in the agenda. In this way, we will surely overcome certain difficulties that would arise if we remain in force. I know that there is a competition in the selection of a new group, i.e. the number of public notebooks in some cities and municipalities, but at the same time my knowledge goes to the point where there are a large number of municipalities and cities that no candidate has applied to be a public notary, so for that reason we would again come to the situation that in these cities people don't know where to verify the transcripts, manuscripts, signatures. At the same time, the United Serbia Parliamentary Group believes that this specific date should be reconsidered until the application of these regulations is delayed, which is under the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on 1 January 2017, that it may be necessary, and I hear that there is some amendment, although I have not seen it, but I have only heard that it will be delayed for another two months until 1 March 2017. If so, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote and accept the amendment's proposal, to postpone its application for two months. You should think about the next one. In 2016, local elections are waiting for us in all municipalities and cities, i.e. in most, not all, in the Republic of Serbia, so if we did not postpone the application of this regulation, we would be in a very difficult situation where candidates for committees in all local self-governments would verify certain documentation necessary for participation in the elections. A unique Serbia would suggest something to think about for all MPs, which is that we have parliamentary elections waiting for us in 2018. You know that every party that wants to participate in these elections must collect a number of signatures to gain the right to participate in parliamentary elections. Whether or not these elections should be considered not to confirm the signatures, as expected, in public notebooks, I only repeat that this is just a proposal for reflection, because we would be in a situation where in some cities, especially more, there will be fewer public notebooks, there will be a lot of crowds in gathering certified signatures for participation in these parliamentary elections. We have time to resolve this in the coming period, as the highest legislative body of this country. I think we should think very seriously about this, not because of us, but because of citizens who, by their signature, want to support a political site or coalition for participation in the 2018 parliamentary elections. Madam President, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government at a session held just before the start of the National Assembly has unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt this amendment and supplement of the Law on the approval of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts. To conclude, the Single Serbia Parliament Club will support the amendment and addition of this law in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22826	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22827	I thank my esteemed colleague Petrovic. I think he also mentioned a question that is very important, and it is about holding elections. Namely, here when we talk about the bill amending the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts must be considered in the light of a specific situation. First, it is a confirmation by units of local self-government, and another specific situation occurs just when local and republican elections are at stake. A particular problem is this enhanced document certification activity for the needs of local and republican elections. It's enough to mention in this place that Article 43. The law on the election of MPs prescribes that the electoral list is established when it is supported by at least 10,000 voters by its signature. Next, Article 18. The law on local elections provides that candidates for committees can propose registered political parties, coalitions of registered political parties, as well as groups of citizens whose electoral lists support at least 30 voters per proposal for each candidate on the election list. In order not to further quote members of the law that regulates the choice of MPs and the Law on Local Elections, in this place, and in the context of the problem suggested by Mr Petrovic, it is clear that holding elections always requires one increased, one periodic engagement in the verification operations, although the certification tasks can be taken over, not by a public notary, but by a public notary. Restrictions in recruiting the same ones for the purpose of periodic increase in work devises a general argument of the possibility of raising the capacity of public notebooks by hiring them. Of course, let us let this deadline, whether it will be on 1 January 2017 or 1 March 2017, show which dynamics will make the appointment of public notebooks, and then we can open all other issues, such as whether it is appropriate, effective, to perform only public notebooks afterwards, or to enable, as it is now done, that the certification, in this case, remains in the jurisdiction of the primary courts and municipal administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22828	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22829	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, in previous several exhibitions, since this morning, I have heard the word "citizens" at least 100 times and how what we are doing today is in the interest of "citizens" and because of "citizens". I wonder where those "citizens" were a little less than six months ago when we passed this law? Then where were their interests when the same majority, which is proposing this law today, adopted and voted in favour of a law that provides for the deadline of 1 March 2015? At least once we heard the word - sorry, citizens, so I understand, I'm sorry, we were wrong. At that time, you were told that the work of public notebooks, or public notebooks, would not be able to take over all the legal tasks within this short period of time. There was a minister here. He's not here today. Today you decided to help him, to ebolize him, not to let him come here and explain what he was saying a little less than six months ago, and to convince us that by this deadline, he would be able to meet what was required by law. I've got his exposure from that session right here. He's got 18 pages. I can read it, but I don't think it's necessary. I don't want to waste your time or yours. I'm curious to know how to think of citizens now, talk about citizens, talk about their interests, talk about how we don't need quick solutions, and you didn't want to respect any of those arguments a little bit less than six months ago. The only way to support this legal solution by the Social Democratic Party-Joint for Serbia-Green Serbia is to get Minister Selakovic's resignation by the day of the vote. I don't know since the presidents are changing, these throws in the O.R., obviously no one's gonna sanction it. But, okay. We are used to sanctioning only what the opposition is happy to do, and not what MPs are doing at the ruling break, and here's what the citizens are doing. The session today costs citizens of Serbia at least a million dinars. A million dinars will spend Serbian citizens on the irresponsibility and incompetence of the ruling majority who refused to listen to these arguments and respected them six months ago. The circulation continues with the introduction of public notebooks into Serbia's legal system. What is this session of the Assembly in the last six months, when we are discussing problems that exist and solving problems that exist in the introduction of public notebooks? Fourth, fifth, and where's the end? And if anyone will say – I'm sorry I'm unable to do my job, I'm sorry, we don't know how to do how to introduce a system of public notebooks into Serbia's legal system, we don't know for six months to conduct a competition, choose new public notebooks, aside from the 94 chosen at the outset, and that wasn't enough to form a chamber. We'll see what happens when the competent courts facing certain processes make their own decisions and will this whole system fall into the water, and will someone finally respond? If there's no resignation from the minister, I'm asking the same majority who put this on the agenda to put in a motion to get rid of the minister, because this is unthinking everything that we're doing here. And why do we argue and make some laws and some deadlines when they can't comply? Who is responsible, I repeat, for today, a week before the deadline of the law that we passed six months ago, the job was not finished? Now, the deadline envisioned initially for six months, which the minister assured us would be fulfilled, is now extending by two more years. What kind of judgments do you people make? Is there anything you can predict? Is there anything you can do within that time limit that you've been planning, or is there always a delay, we're always waiting for something, it'll be better in two years, every two years, you'll be better in two years. With this government, we'll never get better. It'll be worse every day, and you prove it at every assembly meeting. There's one thing the minister can do. I call on him to do so, and I think that's something that will help citizens first of all, but really help citizens, and that's that the Public Notebook tariff rule is adapted so that no tariff, not a single payment a citizen has to pay today, to pay something to finish what he did by 1 September of last year in courts and municipalities, that he can't pay a single dime more when that job is to be done with a public notebook. I call upon the minister, because it is in his jurisdiction to amend that rule in such a way that citizens no longer pay. When a system of public notebooks was introduced, it was again told that it was in the citizens' interest, how more effective it would be, how it would be better. In these six months, we've made sure that none of this is true, the only thing that's happened is that it's getting more and more expensive. Citizens pay something double, triple, 20 times what they paid six months ago. If you want to take care of the citizens and show care, let us unite around the Minister's call, amend the tariff rule and that these tariffs are no longer available and that the citizens pay no more at the notaries than they paid six months ago, when they were finishing jobs in the courts and municipalities of the Republic of Serbia. That's the only way we're gonna do something good for the citizens, the real good for the citizens. Since some amendments have also been discussed here, which have been proposed and we have proposed certain amendments. First of all, the essence of these amendments is that, in our opinion, the tasks of the copy check, the signatures should be done by municipal administrations and after this deadline, permanently. Someone to verify the photocopy doesn't need to go to the notaries. When he goes to the notaries, he will tell him – come in two weeks. The citizen needs to finish some work in one day, there's no time to schedule an appointment at the notary. The bottom line of our amendment is that the courts are doing it by the end of this year, and the municipalities continue to work parallel to this job, along with the notaries. If at some point in two years we make sure that the notaries are so strong, that they are chosen in every municipality, in the required number, then let's change the law and transfer everything to the moment when we're really convinced that the notaries are qualified to perform the most ordinary overtures, what a man comes to the community for today, he says – confirm to me a photocopy of something, it can end in every municipality, when we're sure that the notaries are qualified, that there are enough people to do that, then to transfer it to them. Until then, without a deadline for it to remain in the jurisdiction of the municipalities. Community, not courts, courts by the end of this year. I agree that the courts should be relieved, that they should deal with the trial, that they solve problems faster, especially because of the fact that they haven't worked for four and a half months. Again because of the minister and his incompetence that caused a strike of lawyers, so I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of cases this time. I call upon you to consider our amendment, to adopt it, because it is in the citizens' interest, and such solutions, without words, excuse the citizens, we have made a mistake, are not in the interests of the citizens, and we will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22830	Thank you. The word has authorised representative Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22831	Thank you. I also thank my esteemed colleague Marko Djurisic. There have been many questions raised here that begin with the words – where they were citizens and the biggest regret is that many times the word "citizens" has been used. Then a question like this can be raised against the question – and where were the citizens when they adopted the Law on Public Registration? Did you then say the same word “citizens ” as you listen to it today in this home? Secondly, it was obviously not carefully read, as you can see for this bill, the Proposer is not a government, nor is the Ministry of Justice, but six MPs. Therefore, authorised applicants are taxed. If you're still interested, all the authorized legislators of this bill are lawyers. I think you've pointed out before that you're on the side of an attorney's office in the so-called so-called "I'm sorry." The conflict between lawyers and notaries, but I can see that today you're clearly representing public notation with this kind of rhetoric. You further said that this session was at least a million dinars. It also cost a session when the Law on Public Registration was adopted in 2011, perhaps more than today's session. Just ask yourself, how much will it cost to pay for ordinary overtures if, on 1 March 2015, the jurisdiction of the primary courts and units of local self-government would completely cease, as the authorities who did this, and as certified transactions. You're talking - there's always a delay. I'll remind you again that the promoter is not a government but six of your colleagues. This deadline, you mentioned, let's see if anything really will be done, if the right pace is really going to run the dynamics of the appointment of public notebooks, this deadline is predicted precisely because of one such thing. Next, you mentioned the tariff on public notebooks. In my opening statement, it is obvious that you have not listened to me enough, I mentioned something about the tariffs of public notebooks and what would happen if this deadline were postponed. On 1 March 2015, the proposed amendment would not have been made. It would be a far higher public record tariff. You'd create such a confusion that it would be catastrophic and I'll tell you what I believe you like to hear, and in the interest of the citizens. All of this seems in the interest of the citizens, just like you did in your day and you called it that way. As regards the tariffs already mentioned and as regards the already mentioned regulation, the possibility for citizens to pay fees for the overes, as you have stated, in the same amount, as they did before the introduction of public records as an institute in Serbia, namely, and you should have known a little about it, so that you look at in this case certain specific situations, and that is to say, when providing unit certification services to local self-government apply the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in certain cases and the municipal decision on administrative fees. The Republic Tax Act itself provides for a series of tax exemptions. We are to keep such a solution and on this matter we are absolutely agreeable as colleagues in this congregation. Thus, Article 19 of the just mentioned Law on Republic Taxes provides that the fees of authorities, organisations and institutions of the Republic of Serbia, authorities and organisations of the AP, units of local self-government, organisations of compulsory social security, church and religious communities, the Red Cross of Serbia, etc. Furthermore, the same law stipulates that the tax is not to be paid for applying for registration in the home books, that this tax is not to be paid for applications, contributions for the determination of public income, records and actions in the procedure for determining the reduction of cadastrian income due to elementary accidents, diseases, writings and actions for the exercise of the rights of compulsory social security, social protection, combating disability protection of civil invalid wars, records and actions related to pre-school and school education, education of students, professional training, etc. I fully agree that the certification of those documents should continue to remain in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government, but beware, everything you have said has been said in support of the amendments proposed today. You see now, if a job from the administration of local self-government units is now fully transferred to the competent public notebooks, then a very important question is raised, and I agree with my colleague Đurisic, which is a matter of trust and then we come to a crucial issue – is it necessary to prescribe the same, or similar cases of release from taxis or at least a reduction of the amount of the intended tariff numbers? I will answer you immediately. Yes, it is necessary to prescribe, and what would be the result? As a result, it would also be necessary to impose an unfounded burden on citizens on new obligations, which would already endanger existing social cases. Then who would come under the influence of such an obligation? Physical persons exercising social protection rights in the process of exercising social protection rights, which exercise the right in the procedures of compulsory social security, natural persons in the process of exercising their right to, for example, a child's allowance, rights under martial law, etc. I agree with you and when you say that you need to remain fully in charge of the local self-government units so that they continue to carry out the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions. This is exactly the kind of amendment to the bill. I've never been an authorized promoter before, and you should know that, neither the Law on Records, nor the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, such as today's authorised promoter is the Ministry of Justice, but your colleagues, you could see that, when a law is written, then the applicants of that law and sign it. All of what you said can also be brought into the context of the next one, and that is that if the above-mentioned authentication jobs crossed now, I'm saying now, and it's a perfectly justified solution to be in 2017, because when you talk about the possibility of leaving time to live, then you have to predict that deadline somewhere, and not after what you said, we'll change the law, so we won't change the law. It may be your custom to act like this and to change the laws as you will, but this seems to be the words already expressed from you – precisely in order to protect the interests of the citizens. So, two key issues would be raised, this is a question of the untimely provision of services because of the burden of work or by doing other more profitable work and, of course, a luxuriant moment that must not be forgotten at all, and the second is the question of sustainability of the public record profession itself in the way that you have explained it in your own words in this address. I must also point to Mr Đurišić's next situation in the context stated that if a valid solution were to be maintained in force, on 1 March 2015, the citizens would be directed exclusively to the public notebooks. Now, what the opposition has been saying has been left before when these laws have been discussed, so let's leave an opportunity for citizens to choose where to verify the signature. You see, with this amendment to the bill on certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, that is exactly how much opportunity is left and it gives an appropriate time for the public record service, which I agree with and which, as you said, nobody here is crazy and everyone knows enough what the number of designated public notebooks is, everyone knows that an insufficient number of public notebooks is, it is repeatedly highlighted, but let's give the opportunity to let the citizens of Serbia choose where they will be doing the overtures by 2017 and whether, in such a left time, the public notary service will indeed show whether it can function in its full scope or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22832	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) Replication to your exposure, and then you to Ms. Batic's exposure. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22833	When a minister comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a legislator, or on behalf of the legislator, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Djurisic answers the word and says – The National Assembly is a flow water heater, the National Assembly asks no questions, what are we here? When legislators are legislators, according to the Constitution, MPs, one or a group or a parliamentary group, the same Mr. Djurisic says – where is the minister? Come on, Mr. Djurisic, once you've agreed with yourself whether you want representatives of the government or you want MPs as legislators? They're both right and don't make a theater out of it where it's not there. I wish in 2008 that when you cheered and dressed one of the MPs was allowed to be the legislator of the law. No, he shouldn't have, Mr. Djurisic, and no law from 2008 to 2012 was proposed by the MPs. You said it was a tirad in the introduction of public notebooks. I know you'd want some collective amnesia, some turkey pick, just to forget everything. Who started that tirad, Mr. Djurishic? When was the Law on Public Records passed? Who said then – excuse the citizens for being unable to comply with this law? At the time, it wasn't a tirad when you adopted the Law on Public Registration in 2011 and I have nothing against it. All the countries in the environment, all the regulated European countries have public notaries and public notaries in place, and it is now our fault that we want to implement it, to introduce it under the law that you voted in 2011 and you did not say tirada. No, that was the best, the strongest, but somebody else can apply it. You have a problem as well as Mr. Pavicevic, I'm sorry he's not in the O.R. because we have a debt to answer -- which notary earned 180,000 euros in one month? But you're in the O.R., and you have an obligation to say who the citizen is and whose notary he has to pay 20 times more than it was until a few months ago, name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22834	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22835	Just one more sentence, please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22837	Speaking of costing the session and how much this costs, well, look on your right hand, look at the MPs and how much it will cost for them to provide for the amendments to apply this law from 2117. Who's playing with the citizens and who's playing with the National Assembly? It is neither the legislator nor the ruling majority of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22838	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, a replica of Ms Batic and Mr Babic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22839	Thank you, Your Honor. I see you have failedly tried to escape the minister's responsibility issue. You're transferring the story to the adoption of the Public Notebooks Act in 2011. We are today discussing a law that was passed on 31 August 2014 by this majority, following a debate in which the minister argued, explicitly that this deadline will be respected and that more public notebooks will be appointed by this deadline in municipalities where that is not the case, and that those appointed will be able to take over all this work. Hence my question where is the minister? Why did you abolize him today so he wouldn't come here and answer why this job wasn't done? That's what I'm talking about. What difference does it make when the Law on Public Libraries is passed? You've changed it five times since. We didn't apply it overnight. We didn't want to polytheize the choice of notaries, to do what you did, to appoint your party colleagues, to make one caste closed, to break that law that you changed five times. What does the 2011 Law have to do with this law today? Read these two laws, they have nothing to do with each other in the most important provisions. The issue here is responsibility for a job that has not been done in six months, which was due to be done by Minister Selakovic, because you gave him the mandate to do the job within six months by voting for this law. We didn't vote for this law, we voted against, among other things, because we didn't think this deadline was appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22840	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22841	Two minutes and 40 colleagues had a previous replica. So, I'm asking you to talk here about responsibility and apologize to the citizens for spending a million dinars on a session today just because someone didn't want to listen to another opinion six months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22842	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I also warned you for two minutes and 15 seconds, and I allowed you to use the same time Mr. Babic used. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, I used five seconds less. And, please, you don't have to shout so much, the MPs hear when you speak. Thank you. Replica, and thus close the circle of replicas, the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22843	When it comes to responsibility and apology, I think every second of your MP group's address would have to be used to address the apology for all the devastating policy you've been leading to 2012, for all those unfortunate privatisations, for all those even more unfortunate reform of the judiciary, for all those losers of transition, as you called them, who lost their jobs, for all those broken hopes of getting a job, and 400,000 were out of a job. All these people need every second of the time you have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to use to give these people an apology. I know you'd like some things done then to be forgotten, but don't forget something you said ten minutes ago, five minutes ago. You have clearly said, I have written down, I have followed the presentations of all the People's Messengers, a tirad in the introduction of public notebooks. Now you're not giving me the right to see when that tirada started, that you started it with a bad Law on Public Records. On the one hand, you accuse us of making political caste out of public notebooks, and on the other hand, you say, an insufficient number of public notebooks. Well, make a deal with what you want. Do you want a full number of public notebooks or do you want your notebooks to be selected based on quality, based on expertise, based on knowledge, which is the law and only the ministry wants? You need to agree once on the policy you're conducting from morning to night, from what you want 15 minutes ago to now and from what you've said. In any case, my advice to you, Mr. Djurisic, use this time in a smarter way, apologizing to people in Serbia for what you did to them during the exercise of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22844	I thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been given by the proposed representative, National MP Olgica Batic. Here you go. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: "When am I going to replicate?" )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22845	Thank you. In fact, I'm not going to deal with much of the responsibility that Mr. Đuricic has asked... (The opposition's emissaries win in voice: Djurisic! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You don't all have to throw at me at the same time, it's all right, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22846	Please allow Miss Batic to complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22847	The opposition is a little nervous, but try in some way to calm them down and not throw them away while someone's talking, at least it's elementary order. So on matters of responsibility, there are certain institutes provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Read them, see if there's anything you can do about it. On the other hand, today is neither Tuesday nor Thursday nor oral questions are asked to the government, nor is Thursday's last Thursday in the month. Today, on February 23rd, Monday and on the agenda, it is not the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, but the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the approval of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts. All your exposure absolutely had nothing to do with the proposed change, but you just stood up and talked about what suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22848	I thank you, Miss Batic. Mr. Djurishic, you know the Rules of Procedure very well. So when you're talking and you're challenging a replica, all those who respond to your replication exposure have to get the advantage, and then you're in a new circle of replicas. You know very well, and don't be unhappy if we respect the Rules of Procedure. Here, now you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22849	Thank you. Yes, I have made it very clear – the tirad around the introduction of public notebooks, because, what have we had since 1 September 2014, since when has it been introduced? We have a four-and-a-half-month lawyer strike. We have the tariffs of public notebooks that are two, three, four, five, twenty times higher than they were before the introduction of the same things that people have verified in courts and municipalities compared to what they're supposed to pay today. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Where? A colleague named Babic asks where? The verification of the will – 980 dinars in court, and in public notebooks it is 18,000, 18 times more. You asked where? Here you go, buddy Granny, where. It's a tariff on every public notebook...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22850	Please, Mr. Djurishic, do not replicate with other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22851	... Under the rules passed by the minister. Instead of bickering here, I offer you a solution – let's do this minister, whom you will not change, and he will not resign himself, to invite everyone together to adopt the rule so that Serbian citizens do not pay any more than one dinar for the service they have done in municipalities and courts. That's what the minister can do. Let's invite him all together to do it by March 1st, when this law comes into force.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22852	Time, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22853	I can't say everything I had to say in these two minutes, what I heard was said on my discussion, so I'm gonna hang up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22854	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Now he will receive the word of MP Zoran Babic, a replica. This closes the circle of replicas, because you are not talking about the subject of the agenda, of a member who is changing the law. Here you go. Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22855	I would use these two minutes to teach a great lawyer, a previous speaker, like this as a graduate engineer, with a really minimal knowledge of law, but I learn every day and don't use things for political purposes, just because it suits me. There is a huge difference, and this will be confirmed by your colleague Malović, between the assembly and the overtear of the will. Don't mix one price with another, don't mix the grandmothers and frogs, Mr. Djurishic. There's a huge difference, and the lawyers are going to tell you, between the wills and the wills. What the lawyers will also tell you is that there is also a big difference between the introduction of public records into our judicial system and it does not begin with the date when the Public Note Chamber was created and when the public notebooks began to work. It begins the moment the Law on Public Registration is passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This circulation of public records, as you have now said and confirmed my words, began with the law you voted for, which is in 2011, not on the date when the Public Note Chamber was formed, but when a law was passed that you didn't have the courage to apply it. It's just a form that's made, but not the courage to apply. That is why the start of the law has been transferred, not in a few weeks or in a few months -- in a few years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22856	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22857	Tirada started with you, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22858	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Sabina Dazdarevic. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. Mr. Djurishic, this can't go on forever. So, you've caused a replica, you've closed a circle of replicas, you've had the right to replicate twice. I've already given my word, Mr. Gursich. Here you go, Miss Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22859	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, draft law amending the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions shall extend the time limit for basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations, in carrying out the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, until 2017. Our MP club will support this bill. As far as this law is concerned, we have also submitted an amendment to which the power to certify signatures, namely a statement by members of the political party during its establishment, as well as a confirmation of voters' statements to support a particular electoral list of political entities intending to participate in the electoral process, is given, in addition to public notebooks, also to basic courts, i.e. municipal and city administrations. The aim of the amendment is to protect the right of political parties, national minorities to equality in relation to the political parties of the majority people in the application of the electoral list for participation in the elections, i.e. to verify the statements of voters who support the electoral list, as well as the establishment of a political party. In fact, national minorities mostly live grouped on a territory of several municipalities and cities where there are insufficient numbers of public notebooks to carry out this type of work, so it is almost impossible for the political parties of national minorities to carry out all the necessary actions in the application of the electoral list, in accordance with the deadlines prescribed by the electoral legislation. This amendment also includes the harmonisation of the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Law on Local Elections. Namely, the Law on the Selection of National MPs stipulates that a declaration of support for the electoral list shall be carried out exclusively in the competent court, while the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is prescribed for the certificates of signature to be carried out by a public notary. Therefore, our amendment removes the apparent discrepancy of these two laws. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22860	I thank you, Mrs. Dazdarevic. Mr Đurišić, you will be entitled to breach of the Rules of Procedure, but just to remind you that we have on the agenda a bill amending the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and we are changing only Article 29. Since you're talking about notation, public records and other things, I don't think this debate can go on forever. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22861	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe that my colleague Babic, not the previous speaker, because you didn't give me the word in time, injured Article 107. Rules of Procedure: “The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MPs directly to the other People’s Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. “ I didn’t come to the congregation to be educated by anyone, by law lawyers, by machine engineers about thermodynamics, mathematics, or by doctors about neuropsychiatry. I was elected here in front of Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, to defend the interests of citizens who voted for our list, as much as they voted for it, and I am doing this job here. I really ask that you do not allow other MPs to stand here and speak of me as an excellent lawyer, because I am not, nor do I betray myself. I don't have a law degree or any other college, fake doctorate or anything. I don't. I have the school I have. You can find both high school and elementary school that I graduated from. All schools can meet, exist, have buildings, have generation school buddies, and from college. So, I don't have any problems. But I see here that someone needs to talk about that I need to learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22862	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22863	I don't need to learn anything. I didn't speak offensively of anyone here. I talk all the time about the Law and the consequences it has for the citizens of Serbia. Please protect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22864	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, you've done everything you asked not to do otherwise. First, you spoke to another MP, I warned you. Also, you're saying you shouldn't educate yourself. I don't want to educate you, but you have to read the Rules of Procedure. You can't call and ask for an injury from the member of the Rules of Procedure that you have called for, especially not the other MP in that capacity that you say hurts the Rules of Procedure, except for the chairman. I could tell you a lot, but it's not worth it. You insist on making your own and do not want to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The word has authorised representative Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22865	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dazdarevic, who said that in the day of voting, she would support this bill amending the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Surely, as I have already stated at the outset, each amendment will be carefully considered, and so will the amendment that the distinguished colleague and her colleagues have submitted. I think this is exactly the kind of behavior and just like this one constructive way actually indicates how responsible and also constructive MPs should behave. What is also true is that every session of the National Assembly costs citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are the most costing of those MPs who come here to usurp time, to challenge replicas and only to criticise for criticism because they no longer have anything to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22866	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group of MPs, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22867	I thank the chairman, and I think it's time and order that we finally go to the essence because it's obvious here, that they change and tend all this time this debate and the whole debate goes in some other direction, and it's not about the law on which we need to take a stand, and it's doubtless that the SPS MP's group will unreservedly support amendments and additions to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. The only thing we have to notice is that I am convinced that all MPs here have noticed an absolute inconsistencies and contradiction in drawing criticism about this law. The first is said by the opposition that we are not discussing the Law on Public Libraries today. Right, but what caused us to come to a situation to discuss this law? Well, it caused a lack of public records, i.e. a lack of the public record institution's potential. Well, when we talk about the responsibility of who was responsible, the first person to pass this Law on public notebooks is responsible, and the proposer of that first Law on public notebooks was the Ministry of Justice currently in 2011. So much for responsibility if we talk about responsibility. Secondly, distinguished colleague Batic said unequivocally – the legislators of this law are lawyers. Unfortunately, only seven lawyers have much more in this House. And we as lawyers are also obliged as MPs and as lawyers to prevent any kind of abuse of our profession for political purposes, and this has happened many times today and of course we will not allow it. Dear fellow MPs, the essence of this proposal is very clear. It is true that it is about protecting the interests of non-popular citizens, but indeed in the fundamental protection of citizens' interests, because because of the lack of public notebooks, I will illustrate the example, the city from which I come is called Uzice, there is no public register. Why? There are two reasons. The first reason is that when a public record examination contest was opened, there was no interest in laying. Later, when the interested showed up and naturally applied to the position, they reported that the position of the public record exam had failed. Why? In view of the need for a public exam to meet those criteria, the quantity of knowledge prescribed by the law. It doesn't mean that it's about unprofessional people, but in any case it means one seriousness, it means something that involves a high degree of profession, a high degree of education so someone can be a public notary. These are the reasons why in Užica some other municipalities and cities are not appointed public notebooks, but at the same time these reasons are a relic of the event I was talking about, which is the adoption of the 2011 law. When we find ourselves in such a situation, what is it that can protect citizens? Well, exactly what's suggested. To extend the deadline for institutions to verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts instead of public notebooks. What institutions are these? These are the competent services of local self-government units and dear fellow MPs, courts. Each of us as a citizen will need something like that and each of us will be dear to my fellow Serbian citizens, protected. Protected for the simple reason that he will not have to go to a notary far from his place, residence, or residence quite far away because in court or in the municipality or city administration, he or she has to carry out a copy of the signatures, manuscripts, and transcripts. That's the point. What was not to be heard by dear fellow Members of the People, and where we all agree, is that each of us here for what we've been chosen has one obligation, and that is an obligation to really contribute to the public record tariff being suited to the possibilities of material financial opportunities for citizens. But as someone said here, there's always amnesia, so when there was a debate right here when the minister was present and when we talked about it one point, one of the issues, one of the facts was just that. In the coming period, we must make sure that the public note tariff is appropriate to the material and financial opportunities of citizens. As it is now, certainly not to talk about any adequateness, because if you've been verifying the signature in courts until five, six months ago for three hundred dinars of tax on overa, now you have to pay close to five thousand dinars. Which means that there is simply one objective circumstance, one objective, one objective fact that we need to face realistically and solve it systematically, not to politicize and make any comment on the fact. The second reason why this Assembly should support in the voting day, and when I say the Assembly, I mean MPs and positions and oppositions, therefore, all together and unreservedly all together, is to prevent damage by the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why am I saying this? Well, that's what nobody's been saying until now except for counterpart Batic. Because to prevent these changes from being adopted in that situation, there would be a dampening of the notaries, no one would be able to make it to the overture. In that time, the courts wouldn't be able to verify it. What is now certified by courts to verify and charge taxes is being passed on to budget funds. Who would do that in the future? Well, let's just let's get out of populism and political stories and deal with citizens' interests the way we should and how citizens expect us to, and that's exactly what I'm talking about. And, finally, respected fellow MPs and all citizens of Serbia, I would just like to confirm what is the legislation's obligation in the future. It is a commitment not only to this law but also to the Law on Public Registration as well as to follow a set of laws that we passed five, six months ago, that it is a great credit to the attorney and the Ministry of Justice that has come to an agreement that identifies problems and overcome problems to bring them into line with the needs of citizens. This is what should be a political message from this session of the Assembly towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in no case should we fall into a kind of trap, whether local self-government is needed indefinitely to verify signatures, transcripts and manuscripts. Well, they're doing it now, and they've done it over the past few years back who knows how many. It's about something else, except here they change harder. It's about paying a republican administrative fee for the signing overture and it will continue. We don't have a problem with that, we have a problem that if we pass it on to the notaries, under current conditions and current circumstances, then the citizens will feel it in their pocket, if that's what needs to be prevented. We're not here against the notaries, to clear it up once. The assembly passed the Law on Public Registration, affirmed public records institutions, but the Assembly must also make sure that these public notebooks entrusted with public authority to Serbian citizens have to be determined in the same way as the legislator determines according to quality laws. I thank you, and in no way did I want my discussion, nor the discussion of the SPS parliamentary group to be in any sense affected by populism or political marketing, but to talk about facts, and the facts are presented here and no one can question them, nor the opposition as she tried today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22868	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has an authorised representative, MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22869	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What we're talking about today, I really think that something that is a living need and a technical necessity should not be given any too much political importance. There are much more important political issues, much bigger issues that this Assembly needs to make known and much more serious matters that we need to finish. I will speak today in the spirit in which we have always spoken about the entire system of public notation, of course, as part of the amendment of the Law on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions, which is the topic of the agenda. We can also give a political assessment, which is not negligible and not insignificant. We introduced a notary system in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1930, only 81 years after that, or 70 years after the socialist revolution and all the wandering and stupidity of communists, Serbia is returning again with much lost time in this part to the order of modern European countries and it is a historical fact that cannot be denied by a Republican of any color whether yellow, red or pink. It is simply a fact that we have lost decades in a wrong system and that we should not now waste too much time in modernising the country and in creating a system of reputation for modern European countries. What caused us to change these laws? I don't think it's at all the fault of former Justice Minister Mrs. Snezana Malovic, or the current justice minister, Mr. Nikola Selakovic, for what? Well, we would be hypocritical from the point of view of the SPO, if we were to criticise either one or another minister, because we voted in favour of the laws of both the minister and the other. How did we vote and what did we manage? We voted in the best of faith, handling the fact that within those scheduled deadlines, so many notaries will be selected that all cities and municipalities will be covered. The candidate was quite enough and that assessment was based. However, here we have a situation today whether they can't pass a notary exam, because there is a lot of money to invest in the equipment of the notary office, hire a lot of employees, form an information system, etc. etc. It didn't happen. Whose fault is that? I don't think Mrs. Snezana Malovic, nor Mr. Nikola Selakovic. These are simply circumstances which, at the moment of the adoption of the Law on Notaries, and in subsequent amendments and additions, could not have been predicted and from the point of view of our parliamentary group, would have been very hypocritical if, because we had voted both times, we had criticised one or another minister. Now, do we need to support what is necessary at the moment and demand of time? Absolutely. For what? Well, of course we're going to allow citizens to, as they have until now, live everywhere in the Notary System, verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts and local self-government and the Court of Justice. But I'll also say something I've been saying here the whole time and when she was Mrs. Malovic and Mr. Selakovic, when he was elected minister of justice. It is something that has already been mentioned by several MPs, which is a tariff for public notebooks that is multiplely higher in many cases compared to the republican administrative tax paid in courts and municipal administrations. I don't think that's true at all. Supporting the full introduction of a public notation system, I think that this solution is a solution that does not go to the benefit of all citizens of Serbia at all, if one shop, a signing certificate, a transcript, a manuscript takes the same time, the same complexity of work with both notaries and someone else who deals with the above, then that tariff should be unique and appropriate to our country's economic strength, and our citizens are very hard to live on. Therefore, it is something that is absolutely a suggestion of the Minister of Justice to fully comply with the Republic's administrative tax and the rule of compensation for the work of public notebooks. Whether it will be necessary after two years to stay over the signing of municipal administrations and to have citizens choose whether to sign, copy or manuscript in municipal administration or public notaries, I think the question to which we should approach is very carefully because of, again, what we all talk about, and what will certainly arise in practice, because even now where there are enough public notebooks, it is simply so much work for citizens and for the simplest things like these overs, are scheduled for terms of seven, ten or fifteen days, and we are witnessing that in municipal administrations we have waited for half an hour or an hour at the most. I think that this solution might, perhaps, mean through the monitoring of the volume of public records, through the monitoring of time schedules for citizens for such simple actions, imagine you need any cover, but which is vital to you, that the copy is true to the original and the public notary schedules for 20 days, simply you lose your deadlines, you lose a job that you were supposed to do and you're going to suffer a lot of damage, or you're going to have to go abroad, parents are going to give a statement to children that they can go across the border and the public notary schedules in a month and I'm simply saying there's going to be a lot of these life situations, where citizens are going to suffer the adverse consequences, objectively, a large amount of work done by public notebooks, which can be very easily carried out by an official of over in the municipal administration. Without further specific politicisation of these amendments and additions to the law, the SPO and the DHSS will certainly vote for these amendments and the additions will continue to follow the Law on Public Records and the Law on Authorization of Signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions in practice and who knows, perhaps again in a year and a half or two days, no one will blame us for harmonising these laws or for there to be some changes and additions. It's a simple life, it needs to be understood without further politicization, we will surely support these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22870	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22871	Mr. Chairman, the honourable legislators of these amendments to the law, I must say, I will really look at it as soon as possible for citizens to understand the essence of these changes, which we are dealing with in the Serbian Parliament today, five times, you have changed the regulation, related to the functioning and operation of public notebooks in Serbia. Five times in this assembly we've told you, gentlemen, you can't carry out all your duties on such short notice. You've told us five times - that's not true, you have no idea, you don't know what you're talking about. On the side of me being entertained when I hear some colleagues who were in that same government, how they now have amnesia and say that someone else passed those laws, and they voted for them. And aside from that, you've raised your hand to that deadline that's now scheduled for parallel operation in the work of overture of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. And then you voted for it to be January 1st, and now you're moving in two years. Excuse me, from March to January 2017, so citizens should know, the deadline is again shifted until they can verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in courts and municipalities in two years. We have spoken to you in advance, and we have asked that this time limit be such, that it may be a lasting character, one of the options that you could adopt is to keep the possibility of verifying both in court and in the municipality and in parallel with certifying with the public notebook. That's what you refused. So we told you, you can't function with 94 public notebooks on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and you made fun of it, so we told you, you can't form a public record chamber because you don't have a hundred public notebooks, which is what you're breaking the law and you made fun of it. So we told you you can't change the regulations five times during one session of the Assembly, because you made a mistake the first, second, third and fourth time. So you ignored it, too. So we told you that it was normal for a man who was most responsible for this situation to be responsible for the problems and not the functioning of our judiciary, which is Minister Selakovic, to come to the Assembly, to propose that he move the deadline. Oh, my God. Change of a member. Why couldn't the minister take the time to honor us with his presence? With all due respect to the promoter, why couldn't he come here and ask him, and he hopefully answered, which is why he hasn't resigned yet? If this breach of deadlines is again not proof of his, let's say slightly, a politically arrogant relationship with the Assembly, his arrogant relationship with the truth that was presented to him, according to the dysfunctionality of the judicial and certification system in Serbia, if he didn't realize that there was no one to carry it out, because there are 94 public notebooks in Serbia today, or maybe one or two more, let me forgive those who deal with the factography, so you can't do it in such a short time. We said and then, we say and now, or this system checks parallelly and with judges and municipalities, introduce it as a permanent system, or extend it for more years than you've predicted now. Why does the minister insist on facing the reality of life in the Serbian judiciary with problems in the Serbian judiciary, our additions, criticisms, suggestions? He won't face it. He won't come to the assembly. We prayed to him – come and ask you. Tell us, Minister, for once, when will you be held accountable? This is how it suits us – if you have sufficient signatures, you replace me. It's the height of cynicism. His resignation was written in Serbian non-functioning courts, in a four-month Serbian lawyer who was on strike, in a public record that raised the maximum rate, as citizens pay much more than before. It says here your resignation, Minister Selakovic, whom I now imagine his character blinking over Mr. Becic, but he is not here, or below, I apologize. It's my imagination. With all due respect to Mrs Batic, he needed the bearer of all quasipromies in the Serbian judiciary, reforms, reforms, to come and honour us with his presence. You're changing that article, you weren't listening to us, you didn't want to accept a justifiable, reasonable, suggestion to extend those deadlines, or even better to introduce this possibility as a permanent state. What's wrong with that? And let me ask you one more thing. It's unnatural, it's unusable, the moment we met, because of the amendment of a member of the law that you're trying to talk again about the mistakes that were before, because you don't have any more arguments. It's already become alarming. They don't ask the citizens of me or you, what was before, so let them deal with it, first of all, voters, and under two, competent state authorities. They ask what will now be better in their daily lives. How they'll verify their signatures, transcripts, and certificates. Where they'll do it and at what price they'll do it. Dear citizens, you will still be able to do so for two years, as we said the first day the minister was here. He said, "You people have no idea, I know what I do best." I know because the government gave me a mandate. The government has authorized me to do this job, the Assembly has chosen me. All right, so what's the score? You don't have enough public records, I repeat. You don't have the legal minimum to form a chamber. The people you chose are people of suspicious political ties to the party in power. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Is that the topic? I have to explain the whole...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22872	I just expect Mr. Stefanovic to start talking about the subject at some point, and to remind you that the bill on amendments to the Law on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is. There are various resignations mentioned here. There's a lot of leftovers on one side and the other. Please return to the topic, for other MPs are not obliged to listen to something that is not the subject of the agenda. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: here you will be silent after 20 minutes.) Mr. Sutanovac, you'll answer your word and you'll tell us what you've got.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22873	First of all, I've been talking about the agenda point all along, and I remind you that the point of the agenda is to amend a member of the law, which concerns the possibility of citizens doing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22874	What law, Mr. Stefanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22875	I know I told you first, but you didn't listen. Why are you asking me here now? Will you let me go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22876	You mentioned, you say, the law. What law?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22877	I know very well, Mr. Becic, perhaps you don't know what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22878	I know very well, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22879	Then let me continue, since I'm in the dark all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22880	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22881	To mention someone's resignation, it's a sad state of affairs and it's reality today in Serbia, that we can't talk about any law, Mr. Becic, without asking for the minister's resignation, because they're incompetent. Why do I say they're incompetent? Here's your proof. Why are we meeting today to change the overall regulations regarding the operation of the overture and the notation, the total speaking, the fifth time? Because the first time we said it wasn't possible to do it like that. Facts show that. So you don't have enough notebooks. It's not the Chamber formed under the law, it's the facts. Now you can be against facts, I'm sorry. There's no policy here in what I'm telling you. So, citizens have to have this opportunity that we told you right away, that it's better to be a permanent institute, to break up the monopoly with public records that you tried to give, not personally, but with the government, so the lawyers strike, so they got the opportunity to have a monopoly. These are the relapses of your attempt. Inconsistency, you don't know, you can't function yourself anymore. You can't be consistent with yourself. So it's my duty to remind you of that and tell you what the opposition asked for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22882	It is your duty to stop making insults and talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22883	Why is it an insult? What's an insult? Really, don't overdo it, Mr. Becic. There's no offense here. We don't insult anyone, nor do I think of it. Well, we say, why are you doing this now? Why didn't you do it then? Why did a man who is the bearer of these changes and this institute in Serbia not come to the Assembly, but a man hides politically behind MPs, and not even an MP from the SNS, why? I know there are competent colleagues. Why aren't they the ones who suggest this? Because it's a little awkward, that's why. Because it's not right for you to be so clearly out of what you promised, that's the problem. It's the subject. Is it a matter of changing a member of the law? Is it the theme that you're extending the deadline by two years? Is the theme that we begged you to do so then you didn't? Is it a theme? Is it a matter of getting up and saying, "I'm sorry, you were right? And that's the theme. What's the problem? Is it so hard to get up and say, Yes, it is. We didn't predict the possibility that we'd have some notebooks, that the Chamber wouldn't be legally elected, that citizens wouldn't be able to verify signatures in one place, that these people who made enormous fees to themselves, and some say to some other people from the ruling party, that these people can't answer the nature of the job. What's the problem? What's offensive about that? It's in function, in my opinion, to help revive this institute in an adequate way. In my opinion, two years isn't enough, and you'll break the deadline again, you'll see. I'm telling you today, let it be in the record, that you'll break the deadline again. That's why I suggest you make it a permanent institute, so that a citizen can always go to court and municipality, if he wants to, pay a tax, perform an overture. Why is that a problem? Why does it seem to some people, Mr. Becic, to imagine that someone was trying to protect a group called "public notebooks" that gave them the ability to be protected to make people impossible, so they wanted to do it as an exclusive right or a full monopoly, so the lawyers rebelled? Now we're talking here among colleagues, with all due respect to the promoter, we're talking about someone who's got this all mixed up, and we're going to get hot buns out of the oven, right? You and me, no matter what. Why, even though I know there's one Kata in Perlez and this Kata in Perlez says it's started? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22884	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. For the sake of true public information, this amendment and the addition of the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts has been signed by seven MPs, all lawyers. Among them are Parliament Speakers Maja Gojkovic, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Olgica Batic, Dragan Nikolic, Dragan Polovina, Vesna Simic and Mr Neđo Jovanovic. By doing so, Ms. Olgica Batic is the representative of the MPs who have proposed these changes. So, what you said about this parliament hiding behind a non-SNS MP, you didn't say what was true, let me put it that way. The authorised representative has the advantage, MP Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22885	I'm going to ask you to give your colleague Pili a word, because she really replicated as soon as my colleague Stefanovic finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22886	But no matter what, an authorised representative has the advantage. You have to understand that. Mr. Martinovic, you will only get the word if Miss Batic wants to give you an advantage, but the authorised representative has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22887	I've given the advantage already. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22888	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the yellow sector here at the National Assembly has made several false statements. He said there were no SNS MPs who signed this bill. Whose MPs are Maja Gojkovic, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Dragan Nikolic, Dragan Polovina and Vesna Simic? That's one thing. The second thing, MPs of the former regime and their chief here in the Assembly obviously did not read the text of the bill, and they did not seem to have read the amendment of their own MPs, because Mr Stefanovic here said that this condition, that the overwrite of the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are being carried out in parallel by courts, municipal administrations and public notebooks should be permanent. Now, I don't know if he's speaking for himself or speaking for the entire parliamentary group, but here's what some of the amendments to his parliamentary group read. Gordana Comic, instead of 1 March 2015 - 1 January 2016; Borislav Stefanovic, who says it should be a permanent state, says – 5 February 2016; Dejan Nikolic – 1 January 2019. This is a joke with the National Assembly, a joke with citizens whose name they're supposed to be talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22890	Please, Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22891	Aleksandra Jerkov - 20 May 2016, Jovan Marković – 8 February 2018. Is this their birthday? I don't know what it is. Vesna Martinović – January 1, 2020 and the most brilliant of all amendments, Ivan Jovanovic - January 1st, 2117. What's this about, citizens' interests, how the yellow sector needs to lecture us on what laws we need to pass? Absolutely, all that's said is false. Mr. Becic, please try to explain to the representatives of the yellow sector that this is neither public notebooks nor the Minister of Justice nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is about the bill, which was submitted by the MPs, and most of the signatories of the bill are just the MPs of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22892	Time. Thank you. I'm just asking you not to repeat the word you've spoken, because next time I'm going to give you a warning. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22893	Thank you. Namely, I will repeat what the distinguished colleague Stefanovic referred to when he spoke a few minutes ago, as he was not present at the very beginning of this session. I will agree on one thing with my colleague Stefanovic, which is that Serbia does not have enough public notebooks. It's very clear from the beginning of this session. Also, it is very clear that the full scope of the public service at this point does not exist. It is certain that there will probably not exist until the end of this year, perhaps not even next year, and in fact, no one can give such forecasts when all public notebooks, whose number is provided for by the Public Registration Act, will be named. Also, I think that Mr Stefanovic spoke for himself, not in front of the party he represents, because there are some amendments that are meaningful, and they foresee even shorter deadlines than the deadline contained in the proposed changes. In this place, I also have to point out that a permanent replacement of thesis is being performed here, so the question is being asked, and at the same time the answer is being given to it, so the question is not waiting for an answer, but is being asked at the same time, and then it's being answered, that we don't actually need any of these changes. If you don't need a change like this, and what you need to do, may remain a valid solution, so what do you do, to force the citizens to have, from March 1st, all over the signatures, transcripts and manuscripts, referred them nicely to the designated public notebooks, which they have, imagine, more than 90. So, it's already been said, there is no sufficient number of public notebooks at this point. Public records do not work in full capacity, and it is absolutely nothing controversial, but this is exactly the solution, because if it were not for this solution, there would be catastrophic consequences as of March 1st, and they look at the fact that citizens of those cities and those municipalities would be forced to go right to public notebooks for all certification jobs, such a solution is allowed to remain that parallelism within the period of 2017, which, as a colleague Stefanovic noted, has insisted here earlier and remains. So this solution is certainly better than not having a solution like this. If said - this is to be extended, as is said, a parallel system for even more years, you see, from where I find that my colleague Stefanovic intimately supports such a change. He's just for that deadline to actually be even higher. He is not against that deadline until 2017, but to extend it as well. I'm glad he supports it, and I'd like it even more if he stays consistent with what he said for the day of the vote, and he supports this bill. In addition, it is stated that five times we are changing the regulation regarding public notebooks. I'm sorry, today we're not discussing the Law on Public Records, but the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, Transcripts and manuscripts, which, for the record, has never been changed, this is the first amendment. I'll remind you that when someone's already out there, someone gets in the way of amending the Law on Public Records, amending and supplementing the laws that followed, and what did you vote for the last amendment and supplementing the Law on Public Records when the number of amendments and additions does not suit you? I would like to remind you that the latest amendments to the Law on Public Records are actually a product of the results of Serbian and Justice Department's expert teams. It seems to me that you have supported such changes, but then you did not say – and what is this number of changes? After all, I think this seems exclusive and all for the sake of the citizens. The fact is that here the authorized promoter is not the government, not the minister, but the MPs. Here, allow the possibility that the MPs may sometimes propose something, even if their proposal is on the agenda and we are discussing their proposal. I would be very pleased, and I will end up with this, to say Mr. Stefanovic instead of imagining Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, let's say in his address he addressed me because he doesn't have to imagine me. All it took was for him to look at me and we'd understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22894	I thank Miss Batic for your efforts once again, as I fail to explain to the opposition what amendments and additions to the law today on the agenda. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics, who are currently following today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Mr. Jovanovic, on what grounds? (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. If you knew the Rules of Procedure, you would know that you have no right to reply. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place: The name and last name are mentioned. Your name and name were mentioned. Please, just a moment, you know that mentioning the name and last name isn't enough. Let me ask you a question. So I didn't hear that. If you think they're in a negative context to mention your name and name, you'd hear something like that said, I'll give you the right to the line, but I don't think so. Are you sure your name is mentioned in a negative context. Ivan Jovanovic, from the scene: I'm sure. I'll also see in your presentation. The word is Mr. Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22895	Mr. Becic, if you'd listened to your colleague from the Parliament Club, you'd have heard him talk about the genius amendments of the MPs, especially me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22896	Mr. Jovanovic, thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, on what grounds? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: As an authorised proposer. ) It doesn't matter, you have authorized Miss Batic, as an authorised representative, and you have no right as one of the promoters. Mr. Jovanovic, you should know that. Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away. The word is Mr. Stefanovic, a replica to the exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22897	Why do you keep mentioning the Shooter? Okay, let me explain. I got my back a little bit, so I can't look at Mrs. Batic. Although Mrs Batic, like all MPs, has the right to propose, as a group of MPs, proposals, amendments and additions to the Law, etc. So no one talked about it. I didn't say no SNS signed. I said that the chief authorized promoter is no one from the SNS, but from the DHSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22898	Mr. Stefanovic, I'd be happy to bring a stenogram and let you take a look at what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22899	So none of you got up to be an authorised representative, but you left it to Mrs Batic, which is fine, but I explained what's behind it. That's the point. You see how you understand now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22900	Mr. Stefanovic, I think it's enough for this Parliament that the president of Parliament has signed...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22901	They signed it and... Wait, please. I don't know, first of all, why you keep interrupting me. Secondly, I want to explain to my colleagues, I know they understand, but I'm going to give an additional explanation. (Wolceta Toskovic, from the post: You are not Inspector Megre. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22902	Mr. Toskovic, next time I'll give you a warning, if you try to stop Mr. Stefanovic's exposure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22903	Please give me back my time. I think, objectively speaking, there's been a misunderstanding between me and most of them. I see some of them didn't understand what I was talking about. We, as MPs, are autonomous in the submission of amendments. Just because every MP asks to extend the deadline, someone puts on February 5th, someone on March 13th, someone on May 15th, has experienced parliamentarians among you, doesn't mean that one of us doesn't think it would be better if this institute stood in parallel, as we asked. Since you're not giving us a chance, it won't be enough for a hundred years to fully enliven this institute in our justice system. It won't be enough. We could have made 150 amendments in a hundred years, but you won't be able to implement this the way you imagined.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22904	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22905	It's not the time, because you've given me my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22906	You spoke 30 seconds more. Thank you. The word has authorised representative Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22907	As I said at the very beginning, I will try not to repeat myself in the future, all amendments will be considered with due attention, and especially the amendment, if it has been submitted by a respected colleague, Borislav Stefanovic, while noting that there are more authorised legislators of this law here, and I am appointed representative of the motionor. As I come and represent the DHSS, for this reason I am convinced that personally Mr Stefanovic, in the voting day, will support this law that I represent today as a representative of the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22908	On what basis, Mr. Martinovic? (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. ) A fellow member of Becic, who at that time led the session, estimated that you had no right to reply. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: SNS is mentioned. ) I say, colleague Becic, who led the session before me, estimated... He responded to the word by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. As far as I know, according to the Rules of Procedure, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group represents the parliamentary group on which it is authorised. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22909	I'm sorry, my colleague Atlagic answered the floor of the Rules of Procedure and I think he has an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22910	Mr. Atlagic, I didn't see in the system that you were looking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22911	Mr. Vice President, 15 minutes with his arm up, but since an authorised representative had the advantage, as Mr. Becic said, I'm advertising an article. 107th and 106th. I think that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been severely violated because Mr. Borko Stefanovic has spoken insults that violate the dignity of the National Assembly. At one point, he said we don't know what we're doing, and in another, it's not true, he told the minister he was supposed to come here today. For public reasons, for the sake of accuracy, Minister Mr Selakovic has been present for the past three years, of all ministers, in this National Assembly, and he was not needed today, as the proposing representative explained, and later Mr Becic. However, Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, while Mr. Martinovic was speaking, Mr. Sutanovac kept throwing himself out of place. I think you should have warned him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22912	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. I can only tell you that my colleague Becic repeatedly warned speakers to return to the agenda, which they occasionally did and returned to the topic, occasionally returning to the political part. I don't think Mr. Becic was at the time able to predict what anyone in the next sentence would say, but he certainly intervened from the post of chairman in line with the discussions the speakers had. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, an authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22913	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will rely on what my distinguished colleague, Olgica Batic, said. I would like to point out to some colleagues, the speakers were disturbed by a sentence mentioned on several occasions today in the debate – the interest of the citizens. We are all elected here because of the citizens' interests, and I really don't know why this problem existed that one of our colleagues got up to say that the interest of citizens has been mentioned several times and that nothing changes with this bill and mentions the Law on Public Records. It is already noted, there is a law on signing, copying, and manuscript certification on the agenda. You honor the congregation’s majority that the law has been changed several times. I will have to mention that exactly five years ago a political cleanup was conducted in Serbia's courts. Let's mention everything from the past. Let's mention on 1 January 2010, when you executed, I can't use the word, it might be on the list of these words, when the unselected judges didn't have any criteria why they weren't chosen. You're talking about responsibility, some colleagues mentioned responsibility for what's going on today, because they're referring to citizens' interests. Let's talk about citizens' interests when 700 judges and 150 prosecutors have not passed your famous re-election, colleagues, without any criteria. There's talk of how much today's session costs. How much is it that the judges were returned to work after your failed reform, so they sued the Republic of Serbia? How much does it cost the Republic of Serbia, is it that the majority of citizens' interests are more than anything else and it is not difficult for us to change the laws if we need 10 times, if we realize that there are no conditions for implementation? So if there are territories where there are no public notebooks that will be able to verify, copy, manuscripts and signatures, then it is best for the citizens of Serbia to extend this deadline so that they can work these certificates and continue municipal administrations and basic courts. If they did not amend this provision of the law of Article 29, the public notebooks would have been solely in charge of this activity since 1 March 2015. This isn't about taking jurisdiction from public notebooks, it's about protecting citizens' interests, and we need to support all of these changes. It is certain that when this job, the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts goes to the sole jurisdiction of the public notebooks that there will be a dispensation of the courts and that the courts will only deal with the trial, but right now we do not have the conditions for such a thing. If the legal solution were to remain, certain problems would arise, in areas where we do not have public notebooks, citizens would have to travel, to carry out overtures in other places. It is clear that this solution is only because of the citizens' interests and because of the dynamics of the establishment of a full-scale public record service. Citizens don't need to suffer because of the insufficient number of public notebooks. Let's tell the citizens what they can do. They'll be able in local communities, they'll still be able to carry out photocopies of diplomas, powers and other documents in courts. That's why we need to extend this deadline. Please don't throw away your colleague and let the Chairman apply the Rules of Procedure. For the public service to be established in full scope so that it can assume all jurisdiction. By that time, citizens will still be able in courts and municipal administrations to carry out a copy of the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. The Serbian Progressive Party will support these changes and I would only like for the sake of the public, since it has been pointed out several times why is Minister Selakovic not here today? Let's learn the Rules of Procedure once. In Article 150, the Rules of Procedure say who may be authorised to submit the bill. It's MPs, it's the government and 30,000 voters. I ask you not to take away the basic function which is legislative to the National Assembly and to the MPs to propose a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22914	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Dignity was injured in such a way that Mr. Stefanovic said that it was not true what was actually true. He said that no one in the SNS signed this bill, we denied it and showed that the bill had been signed precisely, in most parts of the SNS MPs. What's also in some way a violation of dignity, but I can say basic, legal and political logic. Mr Stefanovic says - DS MPs are autonomous and they do not have to share with him the view that this situation should be permanent. But it seems to me that Mr. Stefanovic is autonomous of himself, because he said this should be a permanent state, and he himself has submitted an amendment that reads - in the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in Article 29, paragraph 2 of the words "1. in March 2015, they are replaced by the words "5. February 2016’. Well, as you now say on one side, it should be a permanent state to sign, manuscripts and transcripts, both public notebooks and courts and municipal administrations, and then submit the amendment and say yes, but only until 5 February 2016. So this is not about MPs of the DS being autonomous compared to the president of the parliamentary group. I don't think the president of the parliamentary group knows why he's up for it anymore. Whether this is a permanent state or an engagement on 5 February 2016 and what I also want to add, it is not clear to me why my colleague Ivan Jovanovic has recognised himself, or why he thinks that in any way I have offended him in the National Assembly when a man has submitted an amendment that this deadline begins from 1 January 2117.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22916	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. To your advertising of the Rules of Procedure, I have no comment, do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Replica, at the exhibition of Mrs. Pilje. Mrs. Pilia has not mentioned a single DS. You now want to respond to the damage the state suffers because of judges who have not been re-elected, and the Constitutional Court has annulled it, I'd like to hear it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22917	First, we had a chance to hear another one in a series of violations of the Rules of Procedure that was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica. You've allowed it, I know you're a man of tolerance, and I thank you for giving me your word. What's the fact, there's a lot of things there's no answer to. It is a huge shame, just four months ago, to paralyze the judiciary for the appointment of Minister Selakovic. Huge, multimillion dollars, damage in billions of dinars. The damage to unfinished cases, missed deadlines, investments that will not come to Serbia because the judicial system is not working. Then we have the damage that 670 judges have gone to SNS, joined the party. You've never given us proof of whether they joined the SNS, ever, and we prayed for it, because it's a legal obligation. When you got them back, you instructed them to work, okay, but at least tell us if they're not party members anymore? Is that too much to ask? Because it's against the law. You can't have party judges, and I'm sure that's where we agree. Do we agree? Then just explain to us, one brief piece of information, any of you can do it through the means of public information and show the paper and say, here's these 670 that came out of the SNS. No problem at all. (Ninoslav Giric, from the post: They were not members either. They weren't members? How they weren't when Mr. Cvian introduced them publicly at your headquarters, at a press conference, as new members of the SNS. That's right, look at that. The second thing, I end up with this, and I consider my party represented by the Assembly as head of Parliament's group, which believes that this institute should exist parallelly as a possibility of verification both in the municipal administration and in the court. It is our political position, and that we are submitting amendments that go in line with our expectations that we do not think that you do anything for the benefit of the citizens in terms of the functioning of the judiciary, it has nothing to do with it. You've been putting up with the amendments, God save me for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22918	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Not mentioned. ) Mr Stefanovic, you mentioned the SNS and that judges were joining the SNS. Mr. Martinovic is the deputy president of the Parliament Club. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: There is an authorised one. ) The authorised authority is currently not identified in the electronic system. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22919	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I will not wait to deny Mr Stefanovic, to address the means of public information here in the National Assembly's hall or in a statement about a radio or television station, I will deny him right now. First, Mr. Stefanovic would have to offer proof of what he claims to be, that 680 judges are members of the SNS. As I recall, Mr. Cvian, who is no longer a member of the SNS, presented several judges at a press conference as an example of people who in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner stopped performing a judicial post thanks to a very poor judicial reform that was carried out in 2009. We are not obliged to give Mr Stefanovic any evidence of something that cannot be proved, which is that 680 judges are members of the SNS, but Mr Stefanovic should offer proof that these people are indeed members of the SNS. What is more important, if the SNS had intended to place key seats in the SNS's judicial apparatus, now I look at the former regime's MPs, would other people like Miljko Radisavljevic, such as Zagorka Dolovac, would the rest of the people, be able to expand the subject a little, such as Saša Jankovic and Mr Sabic, etc? The Serbian Progressive Party has proved it does not want everything in this country to be politicised. We absolutely showed that the state can be run in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22920	Mr. Martinovic, even that time I took away from you has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22921	I'm just saying that these 680 people weren't members of the SNS, and the DS needs to prove that they're members of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22922	I thank Mr. Martinovic. Since some of the MPs are getting due to the time Martinovic used, I first gave Martinovic my word, and then I addressed my colleague Stefanovic and took away Mr Martinovic for 25 seconds. So, time was running out while I was discussing it. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: it was 48 seconds.) Look at the record. ) You can look at the record, but you will see that Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Borko Stefanovic had almost a second at the same time. (Dear Sutanovac, from place: It was 2 and 48.) With the 25 seconds I took? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22923	I ask you to try to bring an end to this debate about who is who and what has hired a very simple finding with which, I think, a distinguished colleague will agree. At the time when Mr Cvian, who was no longer in the SNS, presented 600 and some people who joined the SNS, and as he said then – expelled by the yellow regime, who became members, he said – they became members of the SNS, you and Mr Martinovic were equally criticised because you were then in the SRS and not in the SNS. So you know very well that at the time you said the same thing as I'm telling you right now, even worse than I'm telling you. So I'm sorry, just to explain, that I'm sorry that Mrs. Pilia isn't present in the O.R., although she's physically present, but she pulled out the card, because I asked her as an authorised representative, because she was probably in the SNS then, I don't know... (Biljana Pantić Pija, from the place: Yes. You did, so why don't you say when you were in the SNS, but the man who was in the SRS? What are you making a mistake in front of the citizens? Here, you make it clear. Just put on a card and report as authorized. I'm asking you in public. Please let the people clear up...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22924	Mr. Stefanovic, please don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22925	I'm sorry. I really don't want to offend anyone in any way. I think you can, Mrs. Pilia, help this process through your unquestionably political memory and experience, to say that then the hated Mr. Cvian, who is not now in SNS, okay, but said the man at the press conference – these are judges who are now proud members of the SNS. (National Members of the SNS, from the place: Where do 680 people stand? Not everyone's here. It's only the most visible who are now at your top level in the judiciary. There were at least 50 of them there. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Which? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22926	Right on the line, MP Biljana Pantic Pilja and we end up with replicas. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: how can now? ) As far as I can see here – electronic application for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22927	Thank you. First of all, I will ask you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and not to allow certain MPs who are obviously acting here as though they were in a pub, not in the House of the National Assembly. That's the first thing about direct address. Secondly, I would first ask the previous speaker - which is the room where 600 judges can stand? Maybe they had so many rooms when they were taking loans from the Vojvodine Development Bank that they took into bankruptcy. I don't know. The Serbian Progressive Party has never had so many rooms, and neither have they now. Speaking of these judges, he did not answer me – in which way you chose judges in 2010 by political persecution of non-member judges, like-minded DS, Mr Stefanovic and the minister from your ranks...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22928	Please, no direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22929	I'm sorry. Minister, I don't know what order it is now, which party it belongs to, I don't know which party it is now, whether it represents Siriz, the democratic, the new democratic, neither do I, and I don't understand it. The judges were then elected without any criteria, and that is why the judiciary is where it is, because five years ago, the judiciary cannot recover today after what the yellow regime has done in the Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22930	Thank you. Right to the replica Borislav Stefanovic. (National Members of the SNS from the place: What now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22931	What do we do now? Although I like the color of Mrs. Pilje's jacket, I have to say this - I don't have a precise record of how much it has joined, but I think it's about 650. Of the 1,000 people who have not passed the re-election, something little has been returned to work, and everyone else has become members with us, SNS official Vladimir Cvian said at a press conference in 14.8.2010. Okay, now, that doesn't matter, Cvian's no longer in SNS. I have to say, don't people when you see there's something you don't like, some inconsistency that always exists in every political work, consistency isn't an insult. So when there's something like that, don't say it -- we don't have a room to stop 600 people. All right. I'm telling you, it's a famous 2010 scene. You've got all the agencies. You've got 'Jut Jub'. People's SNS MPs from the city, about re-election? Not about reelection, but Cvian with them 30 or 40 stands in your rooms. It's there at the fair, I mean, correct me if I'm wrong. You have more rooms and I don't know where. Maybe Hayatt's. Anyway, that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22932	Mr. Sutanovac, please don't throw away your head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22933	Now those qualifications... He's throwing the shit at me. What's your problem? I don't think it's correct. What I'm saying is that every political factor in this country, especially the authorities, is that these doubts that exist, which I don't challenge, are diverged, that in a very simple way by you, the respected authorised representatives who were not here, and in fact they were in the O.R., to say what rooms you have here, not how many budget cuts you have, which are huge, but to tell us – are those 600 people still members of the SNS or are no longer members? Nothing more. No problem at all. All that was done during the DS, of course I'm judging.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22934	Thank you. There's no 20 seconds. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22935	Thank you. I had hoped that within some earlier time, there would be a return to what we should discuss today, but this is when it comes to how much it costs to the National Assembly one day of the session, then it includes both laughter and a joke of some MPs. And it costs our citizens. I have to express my satisfaction here, and as a result of the fact that everyone is actually in agreement with the proposed solution. That is how it comes from what absolutely all the authorised promoters have said, even those who come from the opposition ranks and those who have criticised, but their criticism concerns only the length of the deadline. So no one argues that such a change is necessary and I am very pleased as a representative of the motion, and I am sure that it is nice to my colleagues who are also authorised by the legislators of this bill. Finally, we have some amendments from the opposition that provide for much shorter deadlines since 1 January 2017, which would mean that, from 1 March, Serbian citizens simply want to go to the public notary for all signings, manuscripts and copying jobs, and to pay them drastically more than they did, how they certified the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in the basic courts and units of local self-government, and I have already talked about the Law on Republic and Administrative Taxes, about entities that were exempt from paying taxis, about cases where fees are scheduled to be released, etc. Some amendments also provide for a longer term. Of course, the amendments that come from the order of opposition MPs again, but in the end, when you look at these amendments, let's say, one of the same parliamentary groups, those who predict a shorter deadline than the proposed one, and the amendments of the MPs and the same parliamentary groups that provide for a longer period than the proposed one, I only think that this is the result of non-synchronisation, which is ultimately a reflection of the situation and of their political parties and of all those who today in Serbia are opposition. When certain MPs from the opposition, and there have been such criticisms, criticise and start from why there is a public notation in Serbia at all, you see, in order to introduce any institute, you have to provide for some legal framework, and here public notation is provided for by the Law on Public Registration of 2011. It's here, of course, today said, that actually public notebooks shouldn't exist. But, look, all that's said comes from opposition MPs. You see, in terms of the existence of public notation at all, it is not a criticism that has been addressed to or authorized by the legislators of this law, it is not a criticism sent to the ruling majority, it is not a criticism sent to Minister Selakovic, but it is just a criticism at the expense of its present-day parliamentarians with whom they were together in one party, which, unfortunately or fortunately, is not the case today. So, it is my pleasure to discuss in detail all the amendments submitted, as I have already stated, and the pleasure is so much greater, as I have already mentioned, which here is actually all in agreement with the need for the proposed change, is just a matter of the length of the planned deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22936	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word anymore, we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22937	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am proud to point out that I am one of the motions to amend this law that brought us together today, that I am one of the seven lawyers who gave their signature, believing that these changes contribute to better achieving their rights to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm convinced there may have been other colleagues from the opposition parties here on this proposal, but I guess that's a question of courage or perhaps cowardice. However, it is good that it is clear from the presentation of authorised representatives and opposition parties that they fully support our proposal, it will be fully declared in the voting day by accepting this proposal, which is quite fine, which is quite in place. Today we talked about many things, and at least about what our authorised representative was, Ms. Olgica Batic presented today. There's been talk of a minister of justice who's not in this room, who's not proposing these changes. There were talk of judges and prosecutors who were members of the Serbian Progressive Party, which we are not running from. We are proud to point out that, yes, it is true that many of those who are without any reason, past the law, without criteria and without reason, have been denied the function of doing so, as it was called the reform of the judiciary, and it began and lived on 1 January 2010, have also come to the Serbian Progressive Party, hoping that they can get the satisfaction of their justice, to ask for support from us as citizens, as people, as members of the political party. I can proudly say that in Vranje two, one was the district attorney, it was Milan Bozilovic, a longtime prosecutor, a prominent expert in that part of the Republic of Serbia, who did not pass your famous re-election, came to the Serbian Progressive Party... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "Where is he now?" Now he's retired. The Constitutional Court made a decision that he too would be returned to work and the moment he met the terms of his pension, of course, he went into a well-deserved pension, but it's a disgrace to your party, Mr. Sutanovac, since you're throwing me away and trying to keep...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22938	Please, sir, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22939	I apologize, tell Mr. Sutanovac to throw all the MPs here who are trying to speak and defend what we have signed, what we have proposed today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22940	I don't think there's anything I can do to help, Mr. Sutanovac throws it to his head of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22941	Yeah, he's in big trouble. Okay, he'll make another party out of this, have the capacity. I would like to point out that there are seven MPs who signed this proposal from the Serbian Progressive Party. So much for us running away from responsibility and so much for us hiding behind anyone, but we felt that our authorised representative should be Miss Olgica Batic, because of his ability, eloquence, and out of his desire to point out what was important to the citizens of Serbia. The important thing is that life changes the rules. Life makes it impossible for us to leave on March 1st with Serbian citizens confirming their signatures, transcripts and manuscripts at the notaries, because there are 94 notaries in Serbia right now, and 375 is needed. You can't decree, as you used to do at the time of the Democratic Party could do, to determine that some people have to be notaries, to deploy them in cities, that's impossible. Every citizen has the right to graduate from college, to decide what he's going to do. Many tried to finish and pass the notary exams, but failed. Many have not shown interest, because there is also a need for material resources, financial resources. Now we are in trouble that in many cities and municipalities in Serbia we do not have notes. Here, an example is the city of Vranje, which has no notary. What's a man from St. Elijah, from Poljanica, from Wrong Faia, gonna do if he has to verify any signature, authority, to verify his diploma, to get a job, to turn himself in, to apply? He needs to get in the car, get to Vranj, go from Vranjá to Leskovci, make huge expenses to address the notary. This is what I am as a MP representing the interests of the citizens of Vranj, who have 23,000 votes to be in this House, who are asking me to have as little cost as possible, that their heads hurt as little as possible, than that we MPs have to think about what we have to do. So, life has made it simply necessary to amend this law and the Act on Authorization of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts will begin to apply from 1 January 2017, and until then there will be this so-called. dualism. Serbian citizens can choose where to verify. Can anyone who wants to go to the notary, if he's his friend. One where there's a notary to verify transcripts, manuscripts, and where they're not there, it can do the basic court, and it can do municipal, or city administrations on counters. One more thing, it doesn't seem just in cities, it seems in local offices. I would remind Serbian citizens that they can in their village local community at the secretary to verify what they would have to verify at the notaries. This remains until 1 January 2017. I would remind the public of something else, in 2016 regular local elections are scheduled. Now I'm asking all of us who do politics, how are we going to verify citizens' signatures if it takes 30 signatures per candidate? It's about 2,400 signatures in Vranj. Two thousand and four hundred citizens will have to drive from Vranj to Leskovec by bus and verify their signatures there. With travel expenses, food, journals and everything else, we will stifle the public notes in Leskovac because from other smaller places in Jablanic County, many voters will come to sign it there. So, because of one practicality, because we know that we live with citizens, because we haven't locked ourselves up in these rooms, because we don't look at citizens through the black glass of our cars, how some in the previous period have become accustomed, because every day we listen to what people tell us, what their life problems are, so the SNS, along with its coalition partners, and I know that they share the opinion of the seven MPs, in the voting day to give their vote to adopt these amendments to the law that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22942	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic, and let the National MP Ljiljana Malušić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22943	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today for the eighth time, in the wake of this but also of the previous government made up of almost the same parties, we are discussing amendments to the Law concerning the introduction of a public notary system. Also, within six months, for the second time, we are discussing the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. This is another evidence that the Government, or the Ministry of Justice, has no concept or dynamics regarding the introduction of a public notation system, nor of how to transfer power to public notebooks. I think it was necessary to pass this law. I will read what the legislators have stated in the reasoning of the law, which confirms my claim that the Ministry of Justice has no concept regarding the introduction of a public notary system. In the light of the proposal for this law, it states that it is necessary for reasons to ensure that all citizens and on equal terms the exercise of rights and of law-based interests, without adverse consequences, which could be caused by the dynamics of the establishment of a public notary service in full scope and the takeover of competence in the field of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, which means that, if this bill was not adopted, the adverse consequences would arise for the citizens of Serbia. Also today, we should also discuss the tariffs that public notebooks charge in Serbia and what it means to just adopt this bill. By delaying the application of this law, citizens will be able to pay much less for the same services when certifying certain documents in the municipality or in court, rather than in the notaries. Also, here were the information about how much services cost at the notaries and how much in court. I tried to get the exact information, and now I'm going to give it to you. The comparisons work, the power of attorney, for example. for the launch of family disputes, as well as over power of attorney in a court or municipality costs 560 dinars, while the same document at the notaries costs 2,700 dinars, with VAT. Then, the above statements, e.g. the parents’ statements for travel abroad in a court or municipality cost 230 dinars, while the same statement at the notary costs 1,800 dinars with VAT. A copy check in court or municipality costs 390 dinars, while with notaries citizens for the same service will pay 540 dinars for one side, and 360 dinars for each next side. I think this is enough to approach the amendment of the Public Note Tariff Regulation, which was also announced by the minister when we discussed the amendment of the Public Note Act here in January. On this occasion, we cannot help but look back at some other tariffs that are charged by the public register today, and what kind of tariffs were they when they were charged by courts. One example of economy is that, for example, if we take an example of a company that wants to invest in Serbia and wants to buy a real estate value, for example. of three million euros, of course, on credit, sometimes this company would pay a fee for a sales contract of 39.70 dinars and a tax on a pawned statement of not 1,000 dinars. So she would have paid 40,000 dinars in total. Today, the cost of the contract's checkbook will be 561 thousand dinars and the cost of the publishing statement will be about 150 thousand dinars, of course, after the amended tariff, because before the tariff changes, that fee would also cost 561 thousand dinars. So an investor who wants to invest in Serbia will have to set aside more than 710,000 dinars on this occasion, while he once had to single out only 40,000 dinars. This is a sufficient example that we did not speed up investment in Serbia, we did not speed up efficiency in the conduct and protection of rights, both investors, business entities and citizens. For this reason, we urge you once again to consider our initiative to amend the public note tariff and return to the amount that citizens and economic operators paid, while the overa was in the exclusive jurisdiction of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22944	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word, and let the MP Vesna Martinovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22945	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law amending the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. The bill was initiated by seven MPs, which is very important, means, not the government, but seven MPs, five in front of the SNS, all for the improvement of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to create normative assumptions, in order to ensure a procedure in which legal and natural persons under the same conditions will exercise the rights and interests established by law. Article 1 The bill, which changes the laws of established deadlines in which basic courts and municipal administrations of certification of signatures in manuscripts, again means we are returning to the basic courts and municipal administrations, due to the necessity to ensure that all citizens under equal conditions are granted the exercise of rights and of law-based interests. The proposed solutions will affect the size of transactions and revenues of state authorities, local self-government units, and without increasing costs for legal and natural persons. In order to implement this law, of course, it is not necessary to provide additional resources from the Serbian budget and the law enters into force on the day of its publication in the Official Messenger, which is exactly what Article 2 is talking about. The public register shall also be responsible for certifying signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, for which the special law, which shall apply before the entry into force of this law, shall be prescribed by the court, or the municipal administration. In cities, i.e. municipalities for which public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are appointed until the date of entry into force of this law, can be certified by the basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations, as a trusted job, until 11 January 2017 and until 1 March 2015. In that case, it is a change in this law which is referred to in Article 1 and is amended in Article 29. So it's very simple. Let's just simplify and tell our dear people who are looking at us that nothing has changed and that we have no attack on the notaries, but that, at this point, we have 97 notes in whose jurisdiction 37 basic courts are, and we need 375 notes, simply, to extend the deadline for another year and 10 months, and all for the improvement of our citizens because we directly protect them, we don't hit the wallet. What else does it matter to say? In cities, i.e. municipalities where public notebooks or notaries are not appointed until the appointment of public notebooks, manuscripts and transcripts will be certified, also basic courts, judicial units as well as reception offices of primary courts, i.e. municipal administrations as a trusted job. This is great, and not only have we MPs now given the bill but we will always, if it comes to improving Serbia's citizens. Thank you very much. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill in a voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22946	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Martinovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22947	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, all of what represents the key characteristics of the work of this assembly, is practically contained in this bill. First of all, the law is passed by emergency procedure, today for tomorrow, so to speak overnight. Article 167. The Rules of Procedure allow the possibility of passing laws by emergency procedure, but not as a rule, but only as an exception, and only when circumstances have occurred that could not be predicted. I can conclude from your proposal that you couldn't predict the deadline. You know somehow time passes and deadlines run on calendars, clocks and other aids. It's easy to concentrate in time, and it always surprises me how surprised you are by the rock. You're saying you didn't expect a deadline and you're suggesting an emergency procedure that obviously unprepared you. Another feature is that you propose and pass laws that enter into force before the eighth day of publication. To the end of this call I will remind you that Article 196. The Constitution stipulates that the laws enter into force on the eighth day of the day of publication, and may enter into force earlier if there are justified reasons. Is someone's negligence and impeccable cause? It's not. Is the misjudgement of the original setting of a time limit which is a valid reason? It's not. Which is why you're waiting a minute to 12 to propose and vote this bill. Just from New Year's Eve to this day, we have had quite enough days when there have been no special sessions, of course in those days we count Tuesday and Thursday, probably due to parliamentary issues, it is strikingly avoiding holding sessions these days, so the smooth proposal could be on the agenda in good time. If you didn't make a timely suggestion on why you're back on your nose now, you're making changes and putting us in a position to figure out which way we don't apply the Constitution of the country in which we're MPs. The third characteristic is that you change the laws a little bit just to extend the deadlines that you have previously set. We today had only one item on the agenda where only one member of the law changed. The Prime Minister, as an extremely thriftful man, probably disagrees with this kind of non-domestic archiving of state resources, and this session is exactly that. At the end of August of last year, the minister of justice and for this reason is often mentioned during the debate, it was he who convinced us, that on 1 March 2015, the real deadline for public notebooks to assume the full competence of the overa and now I ask - what actually happened, did the minister make a mistake in the assessment or did it turn out that these notebooks were not as capable as they were expected? The extension in this case is just a consequence. What I'm interested in is what's causing it? If you say that the cause of the public records is that there is not enough, and that is only the consequence of not causing it, because the question is, and why is there not enough of them? I have not heard the answer to this question today from many who have been taking part in the debate by explaining and supporting this bill. When you fail to determine the cause of non-compliance, you will not be able to do either two or 122 years to apply this law if you have not, and otherwise you would have boasted that you have done some serious analysis of why the previous deadline is not respected. On what basis did you then estimate that the real deadline was 1 January 2017? Where are your guarantees that this deadline will be respected if the previous deadline is not respected? If you are sure that the public notebooks on 1 January 2017 will be able to assume on themselves all the jurisdiction to verify manuscripts, manuscripts, signatures and transcripts. I'm just wondering why you're based on your safety, because at least when we talk about public notebooks, the regulations here change really fast. Well, some regulations were in force in September and October, so they changed in November, so in December and part of January, the second regulations were in force, and in January they were re-changed. I am sure that even more public notebooks, and especially not citizens, don't know what regulations apply, what was in force in September, do they apply in December and so on. And all of you who want to participate in the discussion will sign up and not throw it away like a colleague of Biljana Pantic Pija would say – as if you were in a bar. And, to the very end, what is the fact that this proposed amendment is practically a recognition that neither those laws that you have proposed or voted for, although you are responsible for their execution, you are unable to execute, and that you are hiding behind the protection of the interests of citizens all the time during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22948	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22949	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected legislators, respected citizens of Serbia, you have had the opportunity today to listen to the various visions and explanations of the bill amending the Law on signing, manuscripts and transcripts, and I believe that most of you now do not know what we are doing or can understand these discussions, because the question is what we are changing in the draft law that is on the agenda today. For a wonderful miracle since I've been a National MP, this is the first meeting of the Assembly where we have only one item on the agenda and we have no need to unite. I can tell you, it's an honorary fellow that I agree for the first time that this is an emergency procedure. I agree with the emergency procedure, but I don't agree with what your explanation is about what this is all about. Dear viewers, respected citizens of Serbia, we here only change the date until you can verify the signatures, transcripts and manuscripts in local self-governments and courts, and this law adopted in June of the month, if I am not mistaken, not 31 August 2014 and proposed by Minister Selakovic, the minister of justice is specified that the notaries assume all the jurisdiction of manuscripts, transcripts and signatures, that is, on 1 March of this year. It's normal that this is the law, that is, this change in extortion, because in fact, not to change this date people wouldn't have anywhere to verify everything they need to verify from a document in cities where there's no notes or where there's notaries but there's not enough of them. I can agree with the statement of the esteemed promoter, i.e. esteemed promoters, it's time to mention them. It is Maja Gojkovic, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Olgica Batic, Dragan Nikolic, Dragan Polovina, Vesna Simic and Neđo Jovanovic, and thanks to them, dear viewers, respected citizens of Serbia, you will not be in a problem, is unlike the Ministry, from the Minister, Assistant State Secretary in the Ministry, the Chiefs, the Head of Department and all that works in the Ministry and receives salary from the budget, I mean the Ministry of Education, thanks to these colleagues, who read the law and saw that it expires and that Serbian citizens will be in trouble, we are solving this today. I ask the minister why we didn't bring this up at the last session, when we talked about the Justice Ministry's proposals, which was on January 21st 2015, a month and two days ago, which is why we didn't mention this deadline, but today we have a meeting with only one point and I don't believe that in my term, I will have the opportunity to be a participant, where there is only one point, that something has been transferred from 2015 to 2017, and that, citizens of Serbia, will cost you, counting today and Wednesday, over two million dinars. That's a fact. And that's a fact. Thanks to the colleagues I have read, who have submitted this draft amending the law, you will not be in a problem, but we are in trouble because the budget of the Republic of Serbia needlessly suffers expenditures of two, two and a half million, no matter how much it costs in two days of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We should look at each other and see whose responsibility it is. Whose fault is that? Which is why someone who guarantees that something will end by March 1, 2015, is not here, as my colleagues said, to explain what happened? Why is it that someone who predicted that over 250 notes would be introduced into the business by March 1, 2015, is not here to explain why it did not happen? I agree with the fact that it must not be done backwards, I agree with the fact that they have to choose the most capable notary in the Republic of Serbia, because they are doing a very responsible job, I agree that this should be done studioically, but I do not agree with one volunteer approach, a approach where we do not want to hear people's opinions and sue arguments, even if we do not accept them, at least to think about it. If we change something five times, and eventually accept what was at the beginning, then someone's in serious trouble. Apart from the policy and past the arguments that the MPs of the position and opposition all pay for it, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we are all filling. I think that we should approach such problems very seriously and that in the future we no longer allow ourselves to be borne by emotions, political acuity, not to accept other people's arguments and not to experience what we experienced today. The session by emergency procedure with one item on the agenda, not by amending the law, but by changing the date, let's change something fundamental, change the date from 2015 to 2017. Now let me remind you, this is the same story we had when we were talking about the Law on Legalization of the facility and it's precise to be in May 2015. I am afraid that we will change that law again, and therefore I am asking you colleagues, is that, every honour to colleagues who read the laws, and who have seen that Serbian citizens will be in trouble, with due respect, but not with respect to the ministry whose job it is and who is getting paid for it. Minister Selakovic, assistants, state secretaries, all commissioners are obliged to follow these deadlines and this budget spending goes to their souls. I expected Minister Selakovic to come to this parliament and say what we were looking for, and you probably agree with that, to equalise the fees that were before the introduction of the notaries with fees that are now, with the way we are calculating and with the level of giving of Serbian citizens. The moment we talked about the rate of notary payments from Serbian citizens for everything that citizens need to do in the notary offices, we got just that they had an increase in budget giving 30% of the price hasn't changed. I think we will all agree here on the conclusion that it must return to the level before notaries are introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, that prices are the same, is there no one to pay them. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: So what did you introduce the notebooks when you didn't have to pay.) Mr. Chairman, I'm really trying to listen to everything, so I'd like to ask my colleagues, but we're here a long time ago to throw...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22950	Fellow Members, please allow your colleague to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22951	... As a parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I will read to you what it looks like...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22952	Please stop throwing away, just as you feel when you talk, and someone throws you away, so does a colleague Bradic. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22953	Thank you. So, we have proposed that - the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are certified by a public notary or municipal authority in cities or municipalities for which public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are appointed by the date of entry into force of this law, as entrusted business by 1 January 2016 in cities, i.e. municipalities where no public notebooks are appointed, until the appointment of public notebooks, manuscripts and transcripts will also be certified by the primary courts of the judicial unit as well as the reception offices. The basic court shall be in accordance with Articles 13(4) and (5). The Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. That's about the essence of the amendment we've submitted. Once again, respected citizens of Serbia, this is a completely extorted, unnecessary session that costs the Republic of Serbia's budget, thanks to the failure of its daily obligations by those paid from the same budget, and I mean Minister Selakovic and Justice Ministry officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22954	Thank you. The messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22955	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues on page 4. The bill that we received in part of the reasoning under point 2. The reasons for the adoption of the law, it is said, – the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained, above all, in the need to create normative assumptions in order to ensure a meaningful procedure in which legal and natural persons under the same conditions, in an effective and effective manner, will exercise the rights laid down by law and based interests. What a strange way to say -- we're incompetent, we're wrong, and now we have to correct that mistake. Because Serbian citizens, above all today, need to know that a group of MPs have proposed amendments and amendments to the law to correct Minister Selakovic's mistake in order to cover the incompetence of Minister Selakovic, without any desire to speak in his responsibility for the mistake today. The law that we are correcting today in the assembly procedure came on August 29th, then we started discussing it, was Friday, on Sunday evening we discussed in the Assembly on amendments, and he came into force before he was published in the Official List, because, like this proposal today, he predicted that the day after the publication in the "Official Messenger" and just as it is now and then they convinced us that this was the only possible thing, as best as possible, avoiding that the possibility of the law was even being spoken of and that something perhaps in the application of that law would not go the way it was planned. Given that we are changing the law today and, besides this, we are truly insulting written reasoning, we have heard a few more in discussions, MPs who support this law, a few arguments that are true, but deserve a special explanation, I will just say that these arguments are that we have an insufficient number of public notebooks and that is something that no one can plow with, that is simply the fact that we have, and that in a large number of municipalities there are no public notebooks. My question to the legislators is, what of this August 31st we didn't know? Didn't we know there weren't enough public records? Didn't we here tell Mr Selakovic that he was illegally setting up a public-booking chamber when not even a third of the required number of public notebooks was fulfilled? Didn't we talk about the fact that there aren't public-book offices in certain municipalities? Which of these things is, of these two things, that there are not enough public notebooks and that there are not enough public notebooks in all the municipalities, which of these two things were unknown to the MPs on 29, 30 and 31 August? Is it some new circumstances that happened in the meantime, or is it simply one irresponsible and irresponsible attitude towards the citizens, or is it one of Mr Selakovic's already proverbial incompetence, which is obviously not even allowed to come to the Assembly now, because it is not a problem that MPs propose this law? The problem is that MPs are proposing this law because Mr Selakovic cannot admit his mistake. The problem is that I have been trying for a month and a half to fight to put together the National Council for Higher Education on the agenda and to be told that this is impossible because it is a session that needs to be requested by a number of MPs. And when Mr Selakovic so requests, then the session is scheduled by emergency procedure, it is scheduled that the law enters into force the next day, just like the previous law and is scheduled to meet all the wishes of Minister Selakovic in a way that really offends the dignity of the National Assembly. The National Council for Higher Education has been out of office since 29 December. The Committee on Science and Education gave the assembly procedure with a request to be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure, a month and a half ago, after the government corrected a number of mistakes made by proposing candidates who are in conflict of interest and so on, this has not happened yet, and this is being put right now, this is being put in the way the minister wants, all of us convincing us that this is now some great success of the MPs and the National Assembly. No, this is the humiliation of the MPs and therefore the DS does not agree in such a way to treat the Assembly. According to Mrs Batic, as the proposing's authorised representative, she is very pleased because we all agree that the law must be changed, that the deadline must be extended. Of course we agree, because public notebooks don't have enough and because conditions aren't created to apply the law. That's what we agree on. What we will never agree on is that you do not want to discuss the responsibility and guilt of the one who is for what the law cannot apply, responsible and, with pride, we will never agree, because to talk endlessly about changing the date without any reflection on it and that is the reason for those amendments given by the MPs of the DS, this is a way that really humiliates this assembly and that the DS in the Assembly won't talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22956	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I don't mind if you express your political views on whether the president, or the minister responsible, is here, whose order has been called a session, etc., you'll probably be in the discussion to clarify it with the other fellow MPs. But for the sake of truth, I'd just like to ask you that when it comes to an appointment session, we're in an emergency session right now. According to our Rules of Procedure, meetings where the Assembly is in an emergency session can either be proposed by the Government or by the MPs. So on the agenda, when it comes to the National Council, you can arrange with the heads of the parliamentary groups. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I made a deal. () If there was no agreement, do not say that the president of the assembly or anyone else is guilty. That's how I understood it, please. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22957	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my parliamentary experience began in 2008. I've been a MP for seven years. Very disciplined about the presence of the sittings and when I was in opposition, and now that, with great honor and responsibility, I am leading the largest parliamentary group, the SNS Parliamentary Group. But for seven years, I have never attended a session of the National Assembly where there was less talk about the very proposed agenda. I give freedom to the Members of the People that as a free topic, they have understood this small law of two members, to speak of everything and everything, but only of what was the subject of the agenda. Some of the MPs, and I'm going to speak in the spirit of a potential new congregation dictionary, were deficited with the truth, so they said the SNS ran away from responsibility and did not propose this law. Yes, the SNS, or the National MPs of the SNS, happily signed this bill and acting as a team, acting as people who not only share quotas and contingents that were so popular in the past regime, we share both responsibility and then when it's nice and when it's less beautiful. We have agreed that the proposing's authorised representative will be one of the most agile, and I will not be at peace with other national MPs, one of the most agile, and that is Miss Olgica Batic. There's no hiding, and there's no running away from responsibility, because if that were the case, this half of the hall today might not even be there. Today the question was spoken and the most question was asked – and where is the minister of justice? I'll answer you. Mr. Selakovic is at his post, doing a job for which he received authority and support in the elections as well. He was given a job for which he received the authority and support of the MPs and conducted a policy advocated by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic. It is a bit cynical when the same people's MPs when the ministers arrive, and Mr Selakovic is one of the most regular ones because of the work he does, but also because of the energy he has, the most regular in the National Assembly, when the amendment promoter, or the authorised representative of the proposings in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is one of the most resolute ministers, they say – so you are humiliating the National Assembly. The National Assembly is a flow water heater. When this National Assembly is proposed by both constitutional and business authorities, or individuals, one or more MPs, as is the case now, they are legislators, the same moment is said – And where is the minister? Just agree on what you want, what weeks do you want the minister, what weeks do you want the parliamentary laws? It's not enough that cynical laughter to cover the truth in my words. The question has been raised - why one law? I've waved here many times with papers, facts, the truth that the previous regime connected incompatiblely, that we had sessions of the National Assembly with 27 to 67 points of the agenda, and then it was fine. Then the same MPs, the same MP groups of the former regime, whenever we have three, four, five points connected, very meaningful, very connected, we have suffered criticism here why do the agenda points join together? Now we've given them a chance to be one law, now there's no law. Say, "People, what do you want?" One, more or dozens of laws, like you did? Most effectively, the most unskilled question is when the cost of today's session of the Assembly comes from those parliamentary groups that adopted the Law on the financing of political activities in which, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with that law 0.15% even from every loan that came to Serbia went to finance political parties, left for their funding, and now they wonder how much it costs one day to the National Assembly. At the very least, with the bending and that facial cramp won't stop the truth that's in my words. I'll also remind you of your amendments. Here, there's Mr. Bradic. I'll remind you of your amendments, Mr. Bradic, when we changed the Law on the financing of political activities a few months ago. Your amendment was more for political parties, more for you. Then why didn't you run a savings policy, a less-spent policy? No, when your interests are questionable, when funding your political options, then you don't know how much you've had enough, then give as much as you can, then you've criticised us for why we're reducing, then it was a reduction of democratic space, bad for democracy in Serbia, and now that we're talking, when we have a session of the Assembly, when you can express your political views, to say, to hear Serbian citizens, and to assess who the administration is, it doesn't suit you either. It is not good for you to communicate in the people's congregation, nor for the people's congregation and the meetings of the people's congregation to be held. The third time I'm gonna ask you a question - people, say, what do you want? You want the Parliament, you don't want the Assembly, you want to talk, you don't want to talk, you want a democratic dialogue or you don't want to, just put yourself together once with you what you want. Today, one item of the agenda, an extension from 1 March 2015 to 1 January 2017, is the possibility for citizens, businessmen, legal and natural persons to carry out a copy of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in a much larger number of places now, because these are both local offices and local communities and municipal administrations and courts, instead of notaries. It's a matter of responsibility and guilt. Responsibility and guilt are sought and demanded and I would be the first to seek responsibility and guilt when the damage is done. What's the damage? Where today's legal and physical persons confirm transcripts, manuscripts and signatures? Where? In all those places where they were certified yesterday, in all those places where they were certified three, four and five years ago, in all those places where they would verify by January 2017. Is the damage done? It's not. Has anyone suffered? It's not. Did anyone pay more? It's not. What's the responsibility? The responsibility we have said – yes, it takes a more serious time, it takes a time when the public record chamber in full capacity and in full form or we will change the law from the basics and a completely new law will be adopted. But in any case, someone should say - the damage was done, what harm? What's the harm? Name and last name, amount, who's damaged? I'd rather talk about responsibility in a proper and factual way. You know, there was a question here just now about how many unselected judges have become or have become members of the SNS again at that point in 2009. Let's talk a little bit about judges who were elected judges in 2009, and I'll tell you by what principle and by what key. I will read a letter signed by the chairman of the Municipal Committee of the Democratic Party of Vlasotince and the President of the Assembly of the Municipality of Vlasotince. Some colleagues are moving on, but it's over. It doesn't matter. It didn't pass, these people are still in Serbia's justice system today. Now I ask how many judges are members of the DS, and they're still in the judicial system because they've been chosen in a way and, please, let me tell you about that 2009 judicial reform manuscript. Judges of the municipal court of Vlasotince, President, I do not want the names and last names to speak, the President of the Court of Justice since 2000, broke between the DSS and the DSS, overcame the current interest, and is considered DSS's, in principle, fair, but non-communicative and uncontestable. He deserves a chance, but he deserves a chance. Here are the documents and these are the CVs that came to the hands of the Justice Minister at the time, based on which people were given a chance in the judiciary. Let's move on. This is the easiest. The next one's a crush. Wife of DS. At the same time – honest, valuable, on the side not corrupt, ten years back provides all legal assistance to DS. Watch out for an independent judge who's been providing all the legal aid for the DS for ten years? Probably the best in court, ambitious, deserves to move forward, interested in an appeal judge in Nis, undeniable. So, you're providing assistance to the DS, you're immediately indisputable in that judicial reform. The next one was withdrawn, peaceful, valuable, possibly honest, experienced sympathiser, uninterested in politics, former Socialists, co-operated without talking. Indisputable. You co-operate without talking to the municipal board of the DS, you are without talking about career progress in that judiciary directed by the former regime. The next one is unsuspecting, unpromised, probably honest, friendly, always ready for co-operation, apolitical, sympathiser, again undeniable. You are a sympathizer, a secure voice of DS, immediately undeniable for career advancement, and the same ones who care now why we extended this deadline for a year and nine months. Right now, the executive judge is next. Don't defend the interests of society, corrupt, grammatical, husband lawyer, work in the process, evil for the judiciary. He's not a sympathizer. He's an evil judge right now. The next president of the court by 2000, the impertinent enemy of the DS, unprincipled, corrupt, today in New Serbia, is all the worst. As soon as you're against DS, it's the worst. Now we're getting to the DA's office. There is a most interesting reference fair, valuable, on the part of the observed unsuspecting, professional, experienced, long-standing DS sympathiser and, beware now most interesting, rejected all criminal charges against the officials of the DS municipal board. Well, that, gentlemen, is the key to judicial reform directed by the DS. Well, it's those who now care about judicial reform. They're the ones who take care of the Justice Department. They're the ones who take care of the public records now. Please, cover your ears, as our people say, and every moment you have in this National Assembly, as my esteemed colleague has said, use to apologize for all the bad you've done and for these expert supporters of the DS, who have rejected all criminal charges against DS officials and that it was their only way and only way to advance their career.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22958	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr Arsic, I believe that a member of the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly 106 has just been injured, as regards the definition and discussion of the agenda points. In his first sentence in his speech, Mr Zoran Babic said in his previous speech that he resented the MPs who participated today in the debate for not talking about the agenda point, and then he himself talked about everything except what is the agenda point, respected gentlemen and Mr Arsic. Here, I'll remind you of what Mr. Babic was talking about and find out that it wasn't the point of daily work. Mr Babic spoke about where Minister Selakovic is today, which is not the point of the agenda. He spoke and described sessions from the 27th point, which is not the point of the agenda. Mr. Babic, Mr. Arsic, told Mr. Bradic about funding political activities, which is not the point of the agenda. Mr. Babic spoke about judges who are members of the Serbian Progressive Party, which is not the point of the agenda today, and then, Mr. Arsic, said the argument about the price of holding a session of the National Assembly is cynical and rude, which is why Mr. Babic said that anyone who uses this argument is cynical and rude. Mr. Arsic, so Mr. Babic told me that the price of the session is an argument when I, along with Zoran Zivkovic, submitted a large number of amendments and I conclude that Mr. Babic is actually himself now said that he is cynical and rude. Mr. Arsic, and for himself when the MP uses an inappropriate word, he deserves at least your warning. Please do it here, Mr. Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22960	Now I'm going to answer, Mr. Pavicevic. For everything you've said, I'd like you to be in a situation once in a while to replace places. Now I'm going to explain why. If I had turned my attention to that, what you expected me to say to Mr. Babic, Mr. Stefanovic, Mr. Sutanovac, Miss Jerkov, I would have been a dictator in this assembly, nothing else. Now, since your colleagues from the Democratic Party, whose lists you've chosen, have discussed these same topics, it would be very ugly to forbid that Mr. Babic. So we can always set standards on how to apply the Rules of Procedure. The most important thing for me is for the Rules of Procedure to be applied in the same way to MPs who do not support the government and MPs who support the government. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22961	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. - the dignity of this parliament, the dignity of all citizens of Serbia. A few years earlier when he called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he raised the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is a scandal, which is inadmissible. You cannot bring the Constitution, which is sacred to all of us here and the highest legal act of one state, to bring it down to the level of the Rules of Procedure. In a serious parliament, he'd be punished for something like that. I would really ask you, in the future, that anyone who does not raise the Rules of Procedure cannot be given the opportunity to speak for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, especially if you raise the Constitution, to tell him that it is still very insulting to the dignity of this state and all of us MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22962	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. In this assembly, I was able to see the MPs looking for a word by breaking the Rules of Procedure, waving law, paper. I don't see that it's that offensive. I don't see it's offensive at all, so I haven't found a way to react about it. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on the injury in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22963	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I am not well understood and my discussion seems to have not been closely followed, so I will make sure that in these minutes and a half I repeat what is the essence of what I have been saying. So, I welcomed the efforts that the MPs had to propose to amend the members of the law, by moving the deadline until which Serbian citizens would be able to verify their signatures, by copying local self-government, by courts, by showing courts, as they have done so far, because there was the possibility that colleagues would not have seen that failure, that Serbian citizens would suffer from March 1st, because they would not have anywhere to verify, especially in places where there are no notaries who have not passed the contest or whose entry is under way. What was my question, since on January 21st 2015 we held a session where we changed the Law on Notaries, why then the Ministry, headed by Minister Selakovic, State Secretary, Assistant Ministers and all those who were in this room, did not amend this law, but must the MPs do so, to monitor until some member of a law applies? I think it's a nonsens. This meeting today and Wednesday, according to the amendments, costs the Republic of Serbia's budget, and since the budget of the Republic of Serbia is filled by all citizens, it costs all citizens, quite unnecessary. It's a good thing it's only that damage, because it could have been much bigger, if the colleagues who had submitted the amendment to this article had submitted this amendment, had they not done so, then the damage would have been much greater than March 1st this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22964	Thank you. Let me tell you that in history, one ruler mentioned that Parliament's work was expensive. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22965	Thank you. The amendment and addition of the law we are discussing today is in the Assembly because in five days it threatens us to have no place to tell citizens where to verify the transcripts, manuscripts and signatures, because since March 1st, it would have to be done by public notebooks, that public notebooks can't do that because they're not there. All superficial, damaging to the common damage approach, since August of the month when such a deadline has been established to date, today has its first finals in five days before the last deadline of the decision to do so on 1 January 2017. My discussion is that it will not be in any way on 1 January 2017, or on 1 January 2016 or 2018. I'll tell you why. Since it is quite obvious that even this law is few who have not read, there is another law that apparently no one has read, which is deeply related to that that date you have set should in no way be voted upon. It is the Law on Political Parties and Article 30, which says at point 1 - the political party is obliged to apply for renewal of registrations by the same procedure every eight years from the date of enrolment in the register. The application will take effect in 2017, as the Political Party Law Regulation came into force on 15 May 2009. So if you leave this law, then you will have about 550,000 people between January 1st and May 15th 2017 at the public register to verify their signatures for the renewal of the political party's registration. If you move the deadline either forward or beyond 2017, there is hope that we will be able to do so without seeing each other in 2017 at the same session, where people who read the laws most well-intentionedly tell you what it says, and on the other hand they experience insults about how it is used or not using the procedure and why it is now decided that MPs, which is completely legitimate, are making a decision that the deadline that was on 1 March 2015 is moved to 1 January 2017. We currently have about 100 political parties registered. There are over 45 of them in the Assembly. This means that at least 50 of them are re-enlisted in the register within the deadline prescribed by law, which is about 550,000 signatures. Either amend the Political Party Act, or change the time limit on which this law will apply, on 1 January 2016, which is my amendment, so that notebooks can be prepared and that those who wish to renew the registration of their political party can prepare, or change the deadline on 1 January 2018. Don't repeat the mistake that's obvious to all of us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22966	The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Marijan Risticevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Arsic, has not really come to our guests today for a single representative of the Serbian government. I think that today is an opportunity for all of us MPs to look into the debate on the draft law amending the Law on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts and to examine our relationship, the attitude of the National Assembly to the Government of Serbia, the Honorable Mr Arsic and ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, towards irresponsible ministers and Prime Minister. What would happen, I was wondering, while I was reading this bill, the reasons for the explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22968	Mr. Pavicevic, 50 seconds, I'll give you your time. I have to tell you. When a government official comes here, who we chose, I'd experience it if he wanted to influence us. This law is proposed by the MPs. The government can plead, we don't have to listen, we're working towards our conscience. Therefore, do not when we propose laws to summon ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22969	You didn't listen to me till the end, Mr. Arsic, I think you've shown one little... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22970	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've only got one previous note now, it's unusual that there's almost no speech, which I'm holding here without the microphone stopping working, that the system isn't blocking. I am now beginning to doubt slowly, Mr. Arsic, that this is not the case, but rather the intention of the chairman or president of the National Assembly. Please, on those days when there is no session to get this system in order so that all of us MPs here are equal. Please, Mr. Arsic, since I had to talk about something else now, because of your record, to provide me with a new five minutes. Here I am going to log out and re-apply, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22972	I think I can only give you four minutes, even though we've been talking for seven minutes. The remaining time is four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22973	Okay, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mr. Arsic, I was wondering what would happen, for example, Mr. Arsic, and now that question I asked myself, I'm asking all of our fellow Members and colleagues here, to the MPs, that colleague Olga Batic, as one of the legislators of this law, did not notice that on March 1st of this year, the deadline to which the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts can be confirmed by the basic courts, or municipal administrations. I have concluded, gentlemen, that our government would have missed it, even though the government itself insisted on such a deadline, gentlemen. I then conclude that we MPs must constantly correct the terrible mistakes made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I concluded that Mrs Jekov was absolutely right when she demanded that we MPs tell the Government and Minister Selakovic that he had made a mistake and that here we should ensure some agreement about it, that the MPs of the Progressive Party also said – yes, the Minister Selakovic was making the same bill several times, so change one point, and then after a while we see that it was wrong, and that the MPs of the Progressive Party said when they were wrong, because they followed the wrong path of Minister Selakovic. Dear gentlemen, must we not here and in this assembly of the National Assembly remind ourselves of more than 100 years old sentences - that it is not necessary for the MPs of every barbarians to put on legal clothes, gentlemen, and we have introduced it here as a practice now. I was wondering, if there were no MPs, here's Olga Batic, for example, what would happen? We'd get into a legal mess by who knows which time. That's why it's important, Mr. Arsic, to call upon the Constitution, because before any other document reminds us of the values of the rule of law that should be the fundamental integral factor of our country here. I think, gentlemen, about the debate on the amendment of the Law on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions, that we here need to imagine the ineffectiveness of our judiciary. I'm a little prepared for this debate. I have learned that we, our country, are respected gentlemen, MPs, first of all, representatives of the European Court of Human Rights in relation to the number of inhabitants. Is it okay to think about it? Another thing, gentlemen, about the debate on this bill, I think it's up to us to imagine the injustice of our judiciary. I have one more piece of information for you, if she's not famous here. The European Court of Human Rights has found in more than 20% of all the metrically completed proceedings against our country that human rights have been violated to a fair trial. We're dealing with an unfair judiciary, and then the logical question, gentlemen, is the responsibility of someone else's cause, including the Minister of Justice and this government. The third thing, gentlemen, is to imagine the debate over this bill of law that our judiciary is not only unfairly, not only ineffectively, but expensively and in fact unarranged. If we can figure that out here, referring to facts, then I think we have to act by changing the state of justice that can be described today as a collapse. That's why I don't understand Mr. Babic when he asks a question – what is the harm of what Mr. Selakovic's actions are? Isn't it enough just a reminder of a months-long law enforcement strike, gentlemen? It's enough that these people don't work, so we've got some damage, gentlemen. I could speak at a few more points like this, and all the floor discussions about this bill, if Mr. Arsic hadn't shortened my time for four minutes and 33 seconds, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, and I have the right to a full five minutes, as a New Party MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22974	Yeah, except he gave you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22975	Then can I speak for 30 more seconds? To remind Mr Babic, we could also imagine what is important about the debate on this bill, that our judiciary is politically dependent, respected gentlemen. Here, the court and prosecutor's jurisdiction today in our country is replaced by political will, not one party, but one man, honored gentlemen, to imagine it. Thank you, President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22976	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22977	Thank you, Madam President. I had just received criticism from Mr Pavicevic that I am not talking about the agenda point, and here are five minutes Mr Pavicevic did not talk about the agenda point. I will gladly, as I just gave the answer where Mr Selakovic is, now, give the answer and why is the judiciary, if and why is it ineffective, unfair and expensive? You know why, Mr. Pavicevic? This is how judges and prosecutors were elected during those you supported. How can it be an effective judiciary in which more prosecutors are elected just because a longtime sympathiser, quote, DS rejected all criminal charges against DS officials? How can such a judiciary be from a moment of efficiency and justice when you reject criminal charges against the officials of the DS municipal board? He can't, but it's not a question for Mr. Selakovic. That's not a question for this congregation most of them. It is a question for your colleagues sitting in the benches in front of you, who have made such a judiciary, Mr Pavicevic. Another question – why, Madam President, do I think you could refer Mr Pavicevic to one question, why would someone who is an indigenous born Kotorin bother you with a prefix - Serbian on behalf of the SNS? What's the only way to force an advanced party to do that? What is so hard to say - Serbian? Why is it hard to say the full name SNS? It's done permanently and constantly and has a background.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22978	Let me intervene, you know that last time we talked about it, and no consensus has been reached that we call this party just a party. We agreed to use the full words of the party as they are registered. Otherwise there would be a lot of such cases, the SDPS would only be DS, there would be general confusion, DS would be just a party, the New Party would be the same party. No, there are nice things, but there are also those that really get in the way of a tendency to belittle someone. All but the advanced party will then be a party or, for example, a party. Serbia's party instead of the SPS. It's not that lame, I have to intervene, and last time I intervened. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22979	I point out the violation of Articles 27 and 107 which obliges us to take care of the order at the National Assembly session, because it is entirely inappropriate for any MP to suggest any other MP to any other national MP, to express doubts with figures of style or without figures of style about whether or not he is bothered by the adjective of Serbia. Some things aren't done. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Come on. ) National MP Zoran Babic throws – come on. Yes, some things are not done as they do with irony, and in doing so they violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and do not throw themselves off to one serious remark that we should all consider. I fully understand the request and the proposal of the President of the National Assembly to pronounce the names of the parties as the party's name is, but I find it terribly bad to keep silent and let them be this way, and we have seen and heard it for 25 years on various occasions, suggests that it is known that someone feels when an adjective is connected which is the definition of ethnic or national origin. You can't do that. If we haven't been taught this in the homes of our grandmothers and those who raised us, then unfortunately we have to do it in the National Assembly. My request to you, fully supporting that the parties are pronounced in a full-name communication, that you react to such unkind messages in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22980	To be honest, I didn't notice the connotation you were talking about. So there was no intention of harming the Rules of Procedure. I don't know exactly what it was about, but I might understand during this discussion. Do you want us to vote on the injury? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22981	I'll be very brief. I'm sorry I threw it away. It was more of an internal use within the parliamentary group to which I chaired, but I find it scandalous, I am shocked to ask in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that my party's name, in the full name of the SNS, was not well learned at home if I was looking for a prefix in the name Serbian. The scandal is to demand, seek and call for a good home education if I cannot speak Serbian in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will say Serbian, with respect for all the colourfulness of our society and in different religions and in different national structures. I think we're a beautiful colorful garden that needs to cultivate and cultivate all these differences. We learn from these differences, and we respect these differences, but don't ever make me speak Serbian in the National Assembly, because I'll give up myself more than I'll give up my country, but I'll give up my heart. And if it were to be associated with the beautiful education that we should or should not have brought from our house, this is a scandal, this is the worst lie for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that I've heard in seven years from now. Please sanction such things, or at least end in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22982	Do you want us to vote on the injury? No, I don't. ) The word is a folk letter from Gordana Komić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22983	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the President of the National Assembly since the speaker you gave the word to has been left out to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. (Zoran Babić, from the place: Article 107) The MP is now throwing 107. That's the number that was supposed to be spoken the moment he explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is your duty that if the MP who has been given the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure does not say which member is being led to warn him that they are doing so, if and then he does not know that you are giving him a warning measure. I fully agree that you can't know what the MP has in mind when he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I've been as patient as you have, waiting to hear if he'll tell me what member of the Rules of Procedure he is. In a heated attempt to forget that he asked MP Vladimir Pavicevic – what bothers you in the addition of Serbian, he forgot to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. I'm not asking you to plead, I'd just ask that together, because you can't do it without our help, along with us next time a MP who leaves out to comply with Rule 103 will be properly warned, not punished, it still doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22984	Thank you. I made a mistake, I didn't ask. In the first two, three sentences I expected, it's my fault. I'll take it. You want to vote, I'll vote? No, I don't. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure and then to consult whether you want a break or to keep talking, there are only a few more, but it depends on the MPs. If we continue with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, I'm willing to take a break and get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22985	Madam President, Article 108(1). I will use these two minutes to say on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group that we are for work and that this is to continue until we have completed the principle debate on the agenda today. I'd like to ask someone who shows a very good hearing in a way that hears and throws, and doesn't hear what's said in a microphone, I've just advertised Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, and at first, I said in the first sentence, and it will best show that I advertised Article 107. As for the controversy I had with Mr Pavicevic, the controversy was not on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, so I did not have to refer to a certain member of the Rules of Procedure but on the basis of a replica, which is of course recognised in the Rules of Procedure. But I will always ask anyone who is going to address my distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group in the words of an advanced party, why do you mind the Serbian prefix, because it takes one nanosecond away from your time, but it means, as the rule and truth means, we treat other political parties and all actors of the political scene of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22986	Thank you. Do you want to vote on article 108? No, I don't. You? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: You announced the possibility of replication to me. ) There are no replicas to five violations of the Rules of Procedure. There's no point in being democratically tolerated that sometimes you don't get over each other when you forget all that. I thank you for not getting a replica. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is not right... I gave my word to Marijan Rističević. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Not yet. I gave it, you'll see it in a stenogram, and then you'll hurt the Rules of Procedure all you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you can see today, the teachers are a little nervous, but I'm just going to ask Mrs. Chairman how much time do we have? Great, I'll try to spend that time, so I'm asking for a little patience, since I've been listening, I don't know how many replicas and injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I'm very patient, I've tried to learn something from these professors, especially from my respected predecessor, and there's one rule that's from the General Property Act of the Book of Nicholas of Montenegro. He says about it, it's taken over by Katon's rule, and I thought a respected professor would teach me that, but since I haven't learned anything that's applicable in my economic and social life, I'm going to try the other way around. In that code, it is taken over by the maxes, a rule that reads - that the coat of arms is born time does not correct. So that's what I'm saying, in this introduction, that the Law on Public Libraries was passed in 2011 and that, at the first revision of that law, the corrections, the amendments and the additions that we've adopted here, I said, and this can be found in the stenogram, that it will be neither the first nor the last, that I expect a series of corrections of a bad law that the party of the former regime -- so bad, so many coats of arms, that time can't fix it, here's two and a half years. Also, there's a saying-- that one not smart is wrong, which the smart can't fix, and it can be passed very easily, that folk proverb and this law. So it is not only our responsibility to the MPs that we have proposed this law, it is not the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia either. That responsibility is at least listed in half of the sin led by the party of the former regime, which has passed the initial law, i.e. by the minister of justice who proposed the law. So, I think that one date, which is listed here, has caused a great debate and I am obliged, given that it is now insisting that the parties be listed, to say that regardless of the signature of the parliamentary group, I am a member of the People's Peasants' Party. My party was registered in 1990 and there is no one in the work called the one – Serbian. I am a Serb, but I don't blame anyone who isn't a Serb and who lives in this country. So there are only good people and bad people. I have no intention of being ashamed because I'm a Serb, and I've been deeply affected by the discussion of a previous pay phone because I advocate that no one in the country should be ashamed since 1990. So my client was the first national party. Some even treated her like a traitor, and now with the same attitude I become a nationalist party, so I don't know what's changed. Everything around me has changed, except for me. It's already known who doesn't change. I think it's a mistake for me, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22988	I'm asking you about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22989	... Everyone else spoke far less of the law than I did. Madam Chairman, I will return to the law. The law has proposed, that basic of 2011, the minister of justice, and here we are accused of some party justice. I must say that during their reform, the deformities of the judiciary and the minister herself after 2009, directly from the DS, she went to work in the prosecution and that speaks enough of that respect, that we are not for an independent prosecutor's office, an independent judiciary. It is independent of us, but it is not independent of the former regime, especially thanks to the minister who has made a series of objections to this law here. Let's say, during her term of office, the elected dead judge, the man who was dead, was elected as judge, and that's why I'm going to cut this discussion short for the benefit of the citizens and for the benefit of the Assembly's budget, because what should be added if one party has chosen a dead judge during its power. Most likely they didn't sign him up as a judge during the 2009 elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22990	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22991	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. In 2012, while Mr. Vensan Dežer was here, the head of the EU delegation said that about $70m was invested in Serbia without US aid, and that there was no progress, we are talking about 2012, when he said it, in the judiciary. On the contrary, at that point, the Venice Commission for a year, it seems to me, had earlier strongly condemned the judicial reform carried out by the previous government. Now, of course, there's one logical question -- where's the $70 million, and maybe more, what are they spent on, where the money's thrown, and why do we have the kind of justice that we have today? I have to say that I don't trust our judiciary and it's a disaster and as a lawyer for what I say and I'm ashamed to say it, but it is. All these laws were passed by someone before the current government and there is Mr Risticevic right to quote the greats of legal thoughts of Valtazar Bogisic in the General Property Code for Montenegro when it is said – as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. Why? Because someone here passed laws without any preparation of what would happen afterwards. Instead of being prepared for the introduction of a public notebook institute, some of the application was passed by law. Otherwise, at that moment, I was completely against such an introduction of the public record system, but someone did it then, as he did with the prosecution investigation, and we have a big problem today regarding the prosecution's investigation because we can't fully coordinate. We haven't properly prepared ourselves for such a thing. Today we are trying to treat something that the coat of arms is born and asks someone – where is the guarantee that this will be in full compliance with what is normally given on 1 January 2017? There is no guarantee, as there was no guarantee for this deadline either. No one can guarantee that it will go the right way, not because someone doesn't want it, but because when you do something that's very bad, you can hardly fix it later. So I don't understand the objections they're making to the government today. You're doing the best you can. No one can assess the effect of applying the 2011 law in a later period. I'm just asking you, when you passed that law, did you honestly bring it in to bring in public notebooks or did you bring it in clean to meet some of the demands that were put on your side, so that's just that there's something like that? If you have brought this, I am interested – as you have prescribed exams for public notebooks since it is one of the most difficult exams to pass and it is not easy to become a public notary. And the way you choose it, I don't understand how you even thought about introducing public notebooks without any preparation, and that's something that's caused a complete mess in the judiciary? After all, I will call once again on the Venice Commission, which has characterized your reform of the judiciary as a complete disaster. After all, we also saw what Mr. Babic was doing here as a criterion for selecting judges and prosecutors. I have to admit, such qualifications were not given by UDBA in 1945, he says – this one is suitable because he always dropped criminal charges against DS. It's totally scandalous, but unfortunately it really happened, that's what happened. After all, we have evidence. Someone here read it. Anyway, this is something that's been extorted. You know, the effect of a poorly passed law and the introduction of a return application by the institute costs the citizens, and it costs this session. It costs everything, but what are you bringing something like that? We now have to correct it and according to this, we are obliged to do something like this in order for Serbian citizens to verify their signatures, transcripts and all that is necessary for them, and whether the whole process of introducing all public notebooks will be completed in 2017, the right to tell you, I'm not sure. If you ask me honestly, I think there's going to be another extension. Why did it have to be like that, that's what you should be asking yourself, not criticizing the current government that inherited a disastrous approach to judicial reform. In any case, of course we will support this in order to make it easier for the citizens to have their torments when they verify the signatures, the transcripts, but I say once again, to repeat what Valtazar Bogisic has – which the coat of arms is born, the time does not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22992	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must point out that the MPs of the former regime have pictured this session as some kind of political link between Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic. If you have listened carefully to the statements of the former regime's MPs, you have seen that most of their statements refer to the minister of justice and their qualifications that Nikola Selakovic, as justice minister, was responsible for the situation in the Serbian judiciary and that the minister of justice, allegedly because of his responsibility, was afraid to come to the National Assembly, and then, as he allegedly, pushed the MPs to come here instead and propose amendments to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I am now holding a portion of the stenographic notes from today's session. Mr. Stefanovic, president of the DS parliamentary group, said that I should use this little more polite term, not telling the truth when I quoted his words that none of the SNS MPs signed this bill. He said this - why is it that a man who carries these changes, referring to Mr Selakovic, and this institute in Serbia, imagine, Nikola Selakovic is the holder of the Institute of Public Literature in Serbia, and the law was passed in 2011, did not come to the Assembly, but rather the man hides politically behind MPs, and even the MPs not from the SNS, why? So, this is what Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic said, and here is the bill and here are the signatures of who proposed this law: Mrs Maja Gojković, Mrs Biljana Pantic Pilja, Mr Dragan Nikolic, Mr Dragan Paulovina and Mrs Vesna Simic, SNS MPs, next to Ms Olgica Batić and besides Mr Neda Jovanovic from the SPS. So, out of the seven legislators of this law, five of them are SNS. So what Mr. Borislav Stefanovic said just doesn't stand. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I believe that the MPs of the former regime seem to have not read what the bill says. The draft law amends Article 29(2) which reads as follows: ‘In cities, or municipalities for which, until the date of entry into force of this law, public notebooks are designated as signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, basic courts, or municipal administrations, as the most trusted business until 1 January 2017’. It is therefore the cities, or municipalities for which public notebooks are appointed until the day of entry into force of this law. Not that they are not appointed, but are appointed, meaning that in these municipalities, or cities by 1 January 2017, citizens, or other legal entities, will be able to choose practically whether to verify their manuscripts, signatures and transcripts in public notebooks, in basic courts, or in municipal administrations. There were also words about why a sufficient number of public notebooks were not appointed, and then, allegedly, Mr Nikola Selakovic is responsible for the lack of public notebooks in Serbia. It's as if the public records were appointed by the Minister of Justice. The former regime has prescribed under which conditions a graduate lawyer in the Republic of Serbia can become a public notary. Those conditions are pretty rigorous. So not only does he have to finish law school, not only does he have to pass a very difficult judicial exam which, you know, Mrs Gojkovic, is a general sublimation of positive law taught at all law schools in the Republic of Serbia, but he still has to pass a public record exam. It's about his expertise. Furthermore, he must secure a cash deposit to be entered in the Chamber of Public Libraries, and the deposit is not small at all. Also, he has to secure an office of appropriate squares, and that square is not small at all. He must have a safe in that office. He must have a number of employees in the public record office. It's all costing. Why am I saying all this? When an old Greek statesman was asked - what is the best constitutional and political system, he said well - tell me first which people and for what time. In 2011, the former regime introduced the Institute of Public Registration into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, without having previously implemented, as my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group have made a fine point, any analysis of whether our legal system, whether our economic system, is such that our citizens' standard can accept the public notary's institution. I want to remind my colleagues, first of all my colleagues from the former regime, are public notebooks, if I understand this matter well, first of all, the German legal system institute. Public notebooks function best today in Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany and in countries that have accepted the legal system under German influence. Can you, by economic strength, compare political stability, the development of the legal system, etc., Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other? Of course you can't. Here, some colleagues in the former regime asked a question – how much are public notebook services? I can freely note that this issue is extremely hypocritical, because they knew in 2011 when the Law on Public Registration was passed, and it was not proposed by Nikola Selakovic, and it was not voted by the SNS, but by the parties of the former regime. Some MPs of the former regime are sitting here. Some were ministers at the time. They've proposed the Public Registration Act. They knew back then, only now you're silent about the fact that the services of public notebooks would be more expensive than the same services in courts, or in municipal administrations. Why? The answer is very simple and they knew that in 2011, but then they didn't want to say it. Because courts are funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because municipal administrations are financed from the budget of municipalities, or cities, and the public register is financed from its services. He lives on it and it is perfectly logical that his services cost more than those same services are certified for example. manuscripts, signatures and transcripts in courts and municipal administrations. But here is not a question for Nikola Selakovic and SNS – why is the tariff system of public notebooks in Serbia the way it is? Whether it can be corrected, you can talk about it, but the point is to go back to 2011, when the crisis started. Makijaveli said well in one place – when a country is in crisis, then it should return to the beginning as it all began. It began by introducing the Institute of Public Registration in the Republic of Serbia without any legal and economic preparation and then leaving Alexander Vukic to the Serbian Progressive Party and the Government in a manner that left the Institute of Public Registration in Serbia. In Serbia, which was economically devastated, Serbia, which has been systematically robbed since 2000, in which hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs, in which a very bad so-called Serbia was implemented. Justice reform 2008/2009 A year. Now, it's reportedly Nikola Selakovic's fault for all this. Of course he's not guilty. But, you know, we can't get out of this country now and say -- we won the election, but we don't want to rule. We have to rule and we have to exercise power, and we have to rule in a situation where we have to apply laws that are objectively unadjusted to the social, political and economic opportunities that prevailed in Serbia in 2011 and are ruling in Serbia in 2015. What are we trying to accomplish with these? To ensure the conditions that by 1 January 2017, all those who have the need to verify the signature, manuscript or transcript, and that, note, in municipalities where public notebooks are appointed, not where they are not, but where public notebooks are appointed, can do so by choosing whether to execute their authority in the basic court or in the municipal administration. Mr. Zoran Babic has asked a very extra question. Excuse me, and what's the damage to the citizens of Serbia? What is the damage to the economy of the Republic of Serbia? Where's the damage in the first place? There's no damage. The question here was that this session was costing and that this session was expensive, that the MPs of the former regime were those who represent the interests of Serbian citizens, and that we from SNS, so from the whim, have nothing to do, we have nothing better to do, and then we propose a law amending the Law on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I have to remind the citizens what's been said today. The president of the DS parliamentary group Mr. Borislav Stefanovic said that he advocated, I understood that when he said that he was thinking of the entire parliamentary group, that this condition we are proposing now, so that citizens could choose whether the public notary, whether the basic court, whether the municipal administration, would not be armed until 1 January 2017, but that, quote his words, here, there are also the stenographic notes, it is a permanent state. Then, behold, this same Borislav Stefanovic submits an amendment that says – Article 1 is amended and reads, in the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, in Article 29(2): "1. in March 2015, they are replaced by the words "5. February 2016’. So, he's with himself in college. He says in the principle debate - it should be a permanent state, and then, here, on February 23, 2015 at 9.50 a.m., so that's maybe an hour before he talked about the National Assembly, he submits an amendment, where he says - it should not be a permanent state, but should be armed by 5 February 2016. Now, MPs of the former regime who say they care about the interests of Serbian citizens, who say this session costs, who say we from SNS are throwing money, here's what the amendments have yet proposed. Mrs. Gordana Comic, who, if asked, would have kicked the entire parliamentary group out of the room. It proposed not on 1 March 2015, but on 1 January 2016. Borko Stefanović - 5 February 2016 and she was on 1 January 2016. Dejan Nikolic - January 1, 2019. All MPs of the same parliamentary group. Aleksandra Jerkov - 20 May 2016 Do these dates have any symbols from personal or political life, I don't know. Mr. Jovan Markovic - 8 February 2018. It's all a representative group of DS. Vesna Martinovic - 1 January 2020, MP group DS. Then the amendment that I said was truly the most brilliant, I can hardly read this figure, Ivan Jovanovic, the DS parliamentary group, instead of 1 March 2015 - January 1st, 2117. Now I ask you, my fellow citizens, whose interests are so deeply concerned by the former regime led by DS and its political aggregates, what is this? Is this about citizens, or is this, come on, maybe I'll use a word that may be difficult for this assembly, a joke with the Assembly, a joke with the citizens, a laugh in the face and fellow Members and citizens of Serbia and all those who have had the same people since 2000? Therefore, the same parliamentary group should propose amendments mentioning 2117, 2020, 2018, 2019, January 2016, May 2016, etc. Is that a serious policy? Is this a serious political party? Are these the people who need to teach us how to run the country? And constantly, here, for days and hours we've been hearing stories about how Minister Selakovic should resign, how we don't know we're running the state, how the government is bad, here's what the amendments have written. Then they say, "The session of the congregation is worth it." Yes, it'll cost us Wednesday, instead of finishing this session in an hour, we'll be talking here about amendments submitted by MPs from the same parliamentary group. Is this condition that Borko Stefanovic says should be permanent, and then he changes his mind and says it should be until 5 February 2016, is this state supposed to last until 2018, 2019, 2020 or 2117? Of course, the session will cost, but it will cost because of MPs of the former regime who are playing with the National Assembly and who are laughing in the face of Serbian citizens, who first left jobless, introduce a system of public records and now say – sorry, public notebook services are expensive. I'm sorry, what were you passing the Public Note Act in 2011, when you knew, you knew, and in your greatest responsibility, you knew that public notebook services would be much more expensive than the services that were given to citizens by courts, or municipal administrations, but you kept quiet? The only mantra you've ever served, it's – we need to get into the European Union. You didn't have to. It was not a key law Serbia had to pass to advance on its path to the European Union. It was you who brought one into the sea of law, without any preparation. In 2012, you lost power and then left the SNS to enforce laws that are objectively unadjusted to the situation in Serbia. That's the essence of what we're talking about today. You knew that in 2011, but you kept quiet about it and now, after four years, you woke up from your winter dream and said – you know, public notebook services cost money. So they cost, both in Austria, and in Switzerland, and in Germany, and in Slovenia, and in Croatia. They also cost in Serbia, but what we are telling you, the standard of Austria, Germany, Switzerland, and Slovenia is incomparable to the standard of Serbian citizens. You have introduced an institute from a legal system where economic life is far higher than it is in Serbia. Then we came up with this problem that we from SNS are trying to get out of the way that we think it's the best. While we are trying to fix the judiciary, to make it easier for the citizens of Serbia the situation in which they are, MPs of the former regime, above all, MPs of the DS, here they are playing with the National Assembly, laughing in the face of the citizens of Serbia, and none of these amendments have the same date until when this situation should last. Somewhere in January 2016, somewhere in May 2016, somewhere in 2018, somewhere in 2020, about 2117. What's also very important, with an identical explanation. Watch this, so it doesn't matter if January 2016, is 2018, is 2020, is 2117, ask God what year. But that's why the explanation for each amendment is identical. The explanation is, beware, indeed, a genius had to come up with this formulation: “The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in objective consideration of real capacities,” now be careful: “the time frame in which it is possible to provide a meaningful procedure in which legal and natural persons under the same conditions and in an effective and effective way will exercise the rights established by law and based interests. ” The key syntax of this explanation is the time frame. Now I ask you – what is the real time frame for which you stand? Is this a permanent state, is this January 2016, is this May 2016, is that 2018, is that 2020, is that 2117? In your day, at the time of you who cheered and clothed Serbia, who expelled from the National Assembly of the entire parliamentary group, who punished the MPs after two seconds after the microphone was turned on. Yes, yes, it's terrible, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22994	Please don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22995	I didn't say anything ugly. These same ones today teach us lessons about what laws we need to pass and why the Serbian judiciary is in the situation in which it is. Because of them. If you ask me who's to blame. Those who led Serbia to 2012. The whole problem with public records was when a law was passed that was objectively not applicable to the Republic of Serbia in 2011 or applicable now, but now we are where we are, we need to get out of this situation. One more thing I want to point out, which would simply not be correct to the citizens if they didn't know. This is where Mr. Borko Stefanovic said that the amendments to this law change the entire system of certification, manuscripts, signatures and transcripts. That's just not true. Everything remains the same, so the procedure is the same as it has been so far, only to move the deadline from 1 March 2015 to 1 January 2017 and nothing else. No harm will be suffered by Serbian citizens over the law. Serbian citizens would suffer damage if this law were not passed on to me. One more thing to point out, or two more things. Mr. Borko Stefanovic said that for the fifth time this law has changed and here he waved his hands and said – five times you change the law, five times you change the law. Here it is, the law was passed in 2014, published in the "Official Messenger", RS, number 93 from 2014, and we are changing it for the second time. So it's not five times, we're changing it now for the second time. And what I want to conclude with is also said by colleagues from the Democratic Party, they say it is against the constitution that the law comes into force the next day of publication in the "Official Messenger" RS, that is not true. Article 196. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the laws and other regulations and general acts enter into force as early as the eighth day since the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", the RS, and may enter into force earlier if there are justified reasons for this being laid down in the law-making process. Of course there are legitimate reasons. We want to facilitate legal traffic in the Republic of Serbia, we want to make life easier for the citizens of Serbia, by allowing them to choose until 1 January 2017, and we hope that the economic situation will be better than it is by January 2017, that they can choose whether their manuscripts, signatures or transcripts will be certified in public notebooks, where they are appointed, whether they will do so in basic courts, or in municipal administrations. So, the law, i.e. The bill is in the citizens' interest and the SNS will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22996	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Bradiche, on what grounds? (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. He mentioned a member of parliament who was once a minister, sitting next to him. ) Mr. Bradic, that is not enough basis for replication. Also in this room there are several former ministers and I can't tell that Mr. Martinovic meant Mr. Blazic, or he meant one of the other former ministers. I know there are more ministers in the O.R. who can say they're former ministers. So as chairman, I can't give you a replica. I am convinced that Mr. Martinovic meant Mr. Blazic. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the city: The Advantage has a Rules of Procedure. Please, there's an advantage to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't be impatient, Mr. Schutanovac. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the city: The Advantage has a Rules of Procedure. () Yes, Mr. Sutanovac, but chairing the order in which someone applied to the system must ask on what basis this person wanted to receive a word. After Mr. Bradic first applied, I had to ask Mr. Bradic on what grounds. Now that I've established that there is no basis, I'm asking you now, Mr. Sutanovac, on what basis. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22997	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I were to start my presentation now with words that the distinguished previous speaker had a joke here in Parliament for 23 minutes about being with MPs, which with the citizens of Serbia, I'm sure you would give me a warning, possibly even getting me kicked out of here. So, if it's allowed to modify... Please, I have two minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22998	Mr. Sutanovac, please, I'll allow you to continue and I'll count the time. Mr. Martinovic would have been mentioned by... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: No, you didn't tell him anything.) I looked at you. You didn't tell him anything. Please let me finish the sentence. Let me finish the sentence, Mr. Martinovic would have been warned by the chairman if he hadn't been at the moment he said it, said until the end of the sentence that he was aware that the word and that sentence were not appropriate to this high house. I realized that there was no need to warn him that he was aware that he would no longer do so and that it was self-critical, as former Minister Petrovic said. I'm sure Mr. Martinovic will no longer use that expression in this high house. So there was no need to interrupt him. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "Can you give me back my time?" I told you I'd give you your time back. If your injury refers only to that I believe that this is enough of my explanation and I will not continue to explain to you other than whether the Assembly should plead in the day of the vote. Now go ahead and keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u22999	Mr. Becic, if I tell you that I'm aware that it's a difficult word to tell you that you've made a joke with all of us here before, do you have the same understanding for me as you have for Mr. previous speaker? So today he has used the same word on several occasions when you chaired and when he was the second vice president of the Assembly in your place. I'm just curious, seeing as you have a loving relationship and a complete understanding that when MPs make fun of us here, it's even funny to you, because you're smiling, it's just kind of nice to you somewhere. I just get that impression, and you deny me. Or you think it's a new dictionary that we're introducing here in the Assembly that will allow us to conduct a debate at the level of arguments. And what are those arguments? The arguments that by 2012 the Government had adopted or proposed this law to be adopted in 2011 are to blame for correcting this law for the fifth time. Why didn't you undo it? Why didn't you just throw the whole law in the can and say no more and pass a new law, not three years of talking about what happened in 2011, sorry, this is now the fourth year. So, Mr. Chairman, I ask that if you want to be a man of integrity and authority, the same relationship you have with us, in which you call me even when I chat with a fellow MP, asking me if I think of him as a former minister or me, you call me. And when colleagues from the opposite part of the hall yawn, torture, stutter, I don't know what sounds they make anymore, you, and here you are, it doesn't bother you. Well, when it's even said that we're making fun here, since he's got his own ears... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23000	Mr. Sutanovic, it's been two minutes if you haven't noticed. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this? Why didn't you let me know? Well, because you don't respect the Rules of Procedure, you can't be told anything. To respect the Rules of Procedure would not have used a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you respected the Rules of Procedure, you wouldn't say the words you said. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What words? What part? ) By the time you repeated what you were doing, you were self-critical by some former, former speaker when he said it, and you didn't while you referred it to me I didn't have any problem. When you refer it to the other MPs, I must respond. Mr. Sutanovac, I can't explain to you either, nor the difference between the Law on Public Records, which has changed several times, and the law that's on the agenda today, which is not the law you're talking about at all... ( Dragan Sutanovac, from the site: You can repeat the law without reading it. Let's do it again, Mr. Sutanovac. I won't read it. I'll tell you again. And repeat yourself, which is the law on the agenda, Mr. Sutanovac. Come on, please. Will you repeat which is, or mention, or quote which law is on the agenda. Mr. Sutanovac, we're not at the market here, that you're throwing yourself out of place all the time, that you're breaking into everyone's word, I respect that you've been a military minister, but you just can't understand that this government has gone into oblivion and that you're no longer a military minister, that you can't determine, that you can't order, that you can't get into the word, that you're speaking past the Rules of Procedure, that you're throwing now as you throw it, that you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. Simply, Mr. Sutanovac, that's what the citizens said in the election that they no longer want you to listen and act like one. I beg you, in accordance with your election results, behave a little differently. Perhaps once again you will earn the election will of the citizens. Mr. Sutanovac, I don't want to go with you so that, this is an explanation that I needed to tell you by the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) Thank you. Word is, we have a report, Mr. Babic. On what grounds? Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23001	The Honorable Chairman, Article 109. A reminder is given to the Messenger of the people, and now he has all these things, he says, "If he uses curses and abusive expressions." You were obliged to give a warning to the speaker of the past, because he called the messengers here to roar and pitch. I don't know if he recognized himself in that, but what he said to the other MPs was extremely offensive and you were obliged to give him a warning. If he's nice to tell someone that he's a "dumb" and a "dumb" and then to use a term like this for his colleagues, he might actually have earned a distance from the session. And in any case, I really ask you to give notice to these MPs in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23002	Mr Djukanovic, you know very well that the MP you mentioned has no regard for anyone or respects anything, that he would not say to me today that I am laughing. It is certainly not for me today or these days to laugh, as Mr. Sutanovac has said, so that I, nor can I raise anyone, nor can I impose domestic education on anyone, nor can the expressions used in the hall by Mr. Sutanovec, neither mention nor repeat, nor repeat, and I think that citizens will be able to assess who acts in the way and how he uses some expressions in this high house. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23003	Mr. Chairman, I understand the one who uses the expressions "silence, torture and arlauch." Because, you know, when you live on second-class pastures, on the Wizard, then it's probably just those things that suck, torture and arlauch that's full of, or cobbler, they're full of the ears of all of it. When he is not in the congregation, he listens only to arlauking, loathing, and so on by being fit for second - class pasture on the Vrakar. And that's where it comes from, where it comes from. I guess he looks similar to that, but it's not for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a sacred place, and this is just another reason for how careful it should be with defining the concepts, which are appropriate or not suitable for the National Assembly, and how different. How can the Administrative Committee do that where Mr. Sutanovac is not a member? It is necessary for Mr Sutanovac and Mr Zivkovic to be members of that body to define which terms are necessary or unnecessary for the National Assembly. I would very much like to hear how they will say "stoko one" and how they will vote whether it is not accepted or appropriate. Is it appropriate or inappropriate to knelt and arlaucate... (President: Mr. Shutanovac, please don't throw away. ) whether it is appropriate or not to say to a colleague or to the chair of a ‘snot’ or ‘sugar’. [[Dragan Sutanovac throws out of place, but you can't hear it.]] It cannot be done by the Administrative Board, it must be done by Mr. Sutanovac, so let's see if he will vote "yes" or "no" himself. And in the pasture of the second class, he can use whatever he wants and whatever he wants when, first, the Anti-Corruption Agency explains how he acquired that property.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23004	Thank you, Mr. Granny. It's hard to explain it to someone. Mr. Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to advertise Article 103. With regard to Article 107, Article 103(7) and Article 8. The Honorable Chairman, when someone uses, apparently, the advertising of the Rules of Procedure and does so to make it a replica or a discussion, and in that discussion, use a series of offensive expressions, with which he personally cannot humiliate me, because he can only humiliate me better than I do. So, regardless of the amount of those terms he referred to us, so to me, I'm not asking him to be warned, but I'm asking that, in accordance with attitude 8, you take away the time of the MP's group if it exists, because there's been obvious injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which has been used for replication. And finally let me say, since this is a conflict with ministers, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not appreciated by books, it's not appreciated by a barrel, it's not appreciated by a minister by suit, it's free of the best suit, it's the best tadji's tailor, if he's a bad man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23006	Thank you. According to the businessman Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23007	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 106. The manner of MPs from the previous regime is that very often it interrupts the MPs, that offends them, Mr Babic is 107th. I am 106. To insult them, if only I could finish Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23008	Mr. Sutanovac, you simply want to ban MPs from reporting in the Rules of Procedure... ( Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: He can't speak now, Babic spoke.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23009	There are multiple injuries to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23010	Mr. Sutanovac, if you knew the Rules of Procedure, you'd know that he didn't report after the breach of the Rules of Procedure to you, but he reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He believes the chairman has done a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ( Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: When? We'll have to listen to Mr. Jovičić, and until the end we'll hear about it when a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, by the chairman, but Mr. Sutanovac, I beg you again, forget that you were a minister, don't order, don't enter the word, don't determine. Understand that this is a past that can hardly be restored again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23011	Thank you, Your Honor. As you can see, you're having a hard time struggling with discards, remarks and insults, so you can imagine what it's like for us people's MPs. I just want to point out, it's time for you to start warning these performances, because that haughtiness and passion is being transferred from the congregation to the media, and then someone has the right to say to themselves that he is a gentleman, for example. Gasic has been the worst military minister in years. I don't just know why someone said who destroyed Serbia's Army and if someone told the former minister that the former minister was the most hated politician in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23012	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, because I warned Mr. Shutanovec. The only educational measure that could move Mr. Sutanovac to read the Rules of Procedure and respect the Rules of Procedure is the measure of distance from the session and I think we'll have to give him time to read the Rules of Procedure in the next 20 days. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replication and Injuration of the Rules of Procedure. ) You have no right to the Republic, I will not allow myself to be punished today, and if you continue, we will have to apply the strict Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23013	Article 107 and 106 So, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23014	Mr. Sutanovac, 106, 107 were advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23015	It doesn't matter. There's been a misdemeanor in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23016	He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23017	Article 104, just a second.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23018	Article 104? Read Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23019	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23020	Quote Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23021	Mr. Grandmother...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23022	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Since you can't quote the member you called. Thank you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the scene: wait a second.) Why don't you let me explain the Rules of Procedure? ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23023	How much time do I have, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23024	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23025	Thank you. So today we had one debate that, as usual, has repeatedly escaped its control and does not change the fact or threatens in any way that today's session of the Assembly is scheduled to change one member who will allow citizens to use the services of both the municipalities and the courts for two more years. What's our political position and what doesn't have to be in line with the amendment process, to explain, is that this should be a permanent commitment. But certainly, I repeat, knowing that you don't care about it and knowing that you've done something out of this procedure that's inadmissible and so far unseen, not that they've changed the same law five times I've never said it. I told you everything about the public notebooks we've at least five times met here and you know it's like that, maybe more, trying to keep moving the deadlines that surprised you all the time. You were the victims of your own surprise because you couldn't possibly be in line with what you promised the citizens of Serbia and what you originally proposed in the Serbian Parliament. So, when I am here through an amendment process that always bothers you and now allows the chairman to read our amendments to the current regime, introduce a change to the Rules of Procedure that in the future you are reviewing our amendments. I really don't understand that behavior. It bothers you when it says "wipes", it bothers you when you put various dates of symbolic character to show the inability to look at the reality that the current regime has, which cannot agree with it until when this institute will apply. I believe and argue that it is better for this institute to exist in comparison with the Institute of Public Note that citizens would have the opportunity to do better and, unfortunately, better quality work than others. Why? Because public notebooks often, not in all cases, are unable to respond to the challenge in which the law was given. They can't, but they're getting up to charge fat. That's true, we need public notebooks. It is true that you did not make a good assessment, it is true that twice you did not evaluate it well, but five times, so at least tell the people that it was not good, that it was a bad assessment and at least that you were sorry, not for us, but for the citizens of Serbia who voted for you, primarily for you. So let's be honest. No one here is going to ablimate the mistakes that have been made in the judiciary. We've talked about this in the open again and again. Is there no such mistakes now? Well, of course there are. He talked to the head of most of the regime here as they stood, and they stood by the drawers so that someone wouldn't be persecuted. I believe that's true. Do you think an esteemed colleague doesn't have it now? There is a way, only in Novi Sad, they can't close drawers from people from public utility companies, and you can very easily ask around. Ask your authorised representative she knows about it, not in the sense that she's something, to be precise, but she has knowledge. So it's done worse than it's done. It can't wash you in any way. Because the citizens want to see at last the result of your rule. They want to see that improvement you've been talking about and that future they're waiting for. Your biggest problem is when you face a question like this for an unknown reason for me, perhaps a Campbell cause, you reach for what used to be instead of saying what you're going to do. Why? Because this law is a good example for you. You had a chance to predict. If you don't have enough notebooks, and we agree there aren't enough. If the chamber is formed against the law, and we agree it's formed against the law. If we know that the notebooks are often unworthy and don't know they're doing their job, and we know it's true. If we know they're too expensive, and we know it's true. If I know there's no unique record, and we know it doesn't. So, you're all drawn up and we've told you everything more times and the minister when he was there, I don't argue that the minister came much more than the others, that's no argument for you. Why didn't he come today when he's so often in the congregation, what's wrong? He knows we're gonna ask for his resignation, that's our political stance. We know that it is his attitude – change me if you can. It's called cynicism, it's called haughtiness. A man who cares about the judiciary for four months with huge damage to Serbia's citizens, who have no one to make up for, will talk about that – let's change me if you can and if you can. We can't, but we can. When a perspective is given in a sentence line, about what we're going to do, it's not a threat. Everything within the framework of the law and in a democraticly peaceful way. I'm sorry that some of you don't understand it, I'm sorry that some of you are persistently trying to make of what the opposition is saying as something that is evil and hateful of the state of Serbia. I'm sorry you're unable to find the strength to get out of those frames. The matter is very clear, precise. We're talking about a member. Why did we propose different deadlines? Why do we propose different years? Because we want to show how pointless what you're doing is. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Why didn't you write it like that? ) Because this argument would be the subject of unnecessary debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23026	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23027	Unnecessary debates we already have, completely unnecessary. The bottom line is, can you guarantee that in those two years, that this institute will live, that it will no longer be required to verify in the municipality and the court. None of you can guarantee it, none of you. The one responsible has not come to the congregation. Seen people of the current SNS regime have signed that initiative, I'm taking off your hat because you've admitted and accepted that you're only able to break the deadlines you're giving yourself, but then at least you should have been authorized to defend yourself. Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you answer me? Why is the problem that we're looking for the Minister of Justice's resignation that wherever he turned made a problem, he made a mistake? If I were wrong, the best proof would be that the judiciary works fantasticly. If I were wrong, it would also be proof that citizens have no doubt that they will verify their documents. Is that so? It's not. It's not like that. Unfortunately, no one's looking forward to it normally, but you have to understand that all this debate and this noise that's being made today would have been easily avoided, only you had to have forces that aren't in proportion to your numbers. That's the problem. You are numerous, but you are not strong, because if you were strong, you would have stood up and said – it is true, you are right, it was a mistake, it was a bad assessment. We told the citizens of Serbia the wrong thing, we didn't give them good information, so you missed it, and when I put it out, you see something that doesn't exist, and what certainly doesn't exist is hate or any misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23028	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23029	Dear Chairman, I am advertising Article 107 and a violation of dignity because it is not possible to present such flat-rates and assessments and untrues because it offends the dignity of the MPs and insults the dignity of all citizens. It is not possible to transfer to this government a catastrophic situation in the judiciary when I have mentioned it, the Venice Commission considered their judicial reform to be the worst thing in the world. I apologize, the reform of the judiciary, where you mutilated the judiciary and the prosecution, you are now trying to transfer the chaos you created to the current government and the current parliament. Well, it's not nice for anyone to extend these deadlines and there's no guarantee that this deadline will be successful, but you've passed that Law on Public Registration and you need to tell the citizens. Stop putting out lies for the state of justice. By the way, no judge or prosecutor has changed now, these are all your judges and prosecutors. It's your fault and you've made this mess and you have no right to say anything and to object to us here. Please, the chairman, when such untruths come out, which offend the deep dignity of this parliament and of all citizens of Serbia, to really warn the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23030	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Believe me, I wouldn't be able to apply that, because then I would have to warn the speakers on this side for every other sentence. Thank you. The word has the head of the group's envoy, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23031	Mr. Chairman, the only noise that has been heard today has been heard in saying: something is known to me when a government feels so sure, that it has huge support, something appears to me from the past that it is usually not good for that authority, and it is one evolution of the same people, from the same man who, just a year ago in the pre-election campaign in Serbia, predicted and predicted a Ukrainian scenario, a Bosnian scenario, burning houses, buildings, companies, who called for barricades, did not call for the first time to call for barricades, which predicted instability, all but for the sake of coming to power. It is the only noise heard today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. An even greater noise was heard in disprovement of what was said. You know, when someone for more than ten minutes doesn't stick to what he says and is ashamed of what he said, at least it's normal and polite to go out and say sorry, but we haven't heard from Mr Stefanovic "excuse" or the noise he produced last year, when he called for unrest and instability and blockades and barricades on the streets of Belgrade and the streets of other Serbian cities. We don't expect it, and we won't get it now. I guess it's a noise that silences the question of how it's been possible to rule for 15 years...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23032	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23033	Please don't interrupt me, because Mr. Stefanovic talked about everything for eight minutes, he just didn't talk about the agenda point. How do we cover up the noise by asking ourselves how is it possible for someone democratically to maintain and hold power in Vojvodina with an incomplete 6% support? It's a noise that hides the question of who can't agree with themselves, the legislators of this bill that envisioned the move of deadlines for 1 January 2017 or a parliamentary group of former regimes, which bombed us on dates, probably on dates of their birthdays, which were valid from several months of 2016 until 2117. Who, then, cannot agree with themselves and what is the right and rule in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where a respected colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, who has studied all 15 proposed amendments, tries to find a reason to eventually accept it, and on the other hand, that watcher of democracy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia asks why you read our amendments? Is it a shame for Mr Stefanovic to write such amendments or is it a very ugly joke with the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, where you write some amendments cleanly to write them, not to believe in the truth and the reasons why you write and propose these amendments, because otherwise, Mr Stefanovic would not verbally advocate a permanent and sustainable solution, and he proposed an amendment that shortens the process and shortens that deadline seems to me on February 2016, on February 5th 2016. I don't know why February 5th? Maybe it's because it's the anniversary of holding a big SNS rally here in front of the House of the National Assembly, where we showed what it means, where we showed great deviance, as someone said from October 5th, just to show how it can be protested and that behind that rally, behind the 100,000 people who were there, there's not a single plastic bottle left, that everyone's safe and the city we were in, and the participants of that rally. If that's the reason, then I support, but another meaningful reason or perhaps a dear date, an emotionally expensive date, but it should have been written in an explanation. Somehow what verbally stands for here and the amendment he has proposed is not in agreement. What is it, Jin and Yang in one of the MPs? Some things have been said that I don't have to ask for, asked for people who are really serious, people on the international political scene, and asked for Mr. Han for proof. Everything needs proof. And as long as Mr. Stefanovic, so fast on the trigger, speaks without evidence, that noise will be bigger, because, you know, the prags make a lot of noise, but nothing further from that noise is because there's no evidence. Nothing further than those crowded drawers in Novi Sad unless there's a name and a last name. I can say both the names and last names of full drawers and everything that Bora Novakovic did, what Vrebalov does, millions for a building that isn't even tamed, millions given, spilled untraceable, and that's what the prosecution does. When we brought pictures and we represented what it was and why these millions were spent, they turned their heads on the other side, but I don't want to do it. I don't have the authority. Let the prosecution deal with this and let him deal with the Vojvodine Development Bank and what it's like to guarantee loans to siphons. Do you care about pensioners living in Vojvodina by giving them syphons, toothbrushes? What are they gonna clean their teeth from? From what you took home, the individuals that they took home? The relationship with the IMF is today and not only today, but also in weeks and months behind us, but also in front of us, the political theme of a pair of excellencies and the same people who in 2011 expelled the IMF for only one reason – so that without any monitoring they could use budget funds, the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the pre-election campaign. They drove out monitoring, they drove out those eyes and ears, professional eyes and ears, so they could use those funds and win the election. They did it and failed again, and now they respect the SNS, now they honor Aleksandra Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why we are ready to monitor, which is why we are ready to control the spending of public funds. That's the difference between us and them. We're not afraid of control, we're not afraid of monitoring. Let them come, we don't give easy solutions to the radical left, they're going to pour honey and milk, it's enough just to take off the jacket and take off the tie and that's it. Those are solutions, a few light notes on the bass guitar? No one in Serbia has lived better than that. We need the control of public finances, we need the control of public enterprises. We need corporate behavior, corporate business of public enterprises. It's all part of a deal with the IMF. It also bothers those who have been sent a clear message that the agreement and contract with the IMF, which I hope today, will sign and receive consent, is the good affirmative seal for our country that is stable, more stable, better for investment. We received that seal once by signing the Brussels Agreement, a date for starting negotiations. I believe the words of David McCallister and the opening of the chapters. I hope we get that atest today by signing an agreement with the IMF. Who can not look forward to it? Only those who drove the IMF out of here, only those who think that without control spending public funds will be able to make some of their own policy bass guitars. I'm looking forward to it. I look forward to the Atestes of our country. I look forward to the seriousness our country is showing. There are no easy solutions. Plant onion into the country, so it is necessary before you engrave this land, to rip off the crime and corruption that has been planted, that weed of our society. You've got to dig, you've got to refrigerate, plant, run and wait for it to pop up. And those who only planted weeds, and now they expect it to be impossible from today to tomorrow, we are not fighting for your understanding, we are fighting for the understanding of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We're fighting to understand the international community. We fight that our country, regardless of the political price, no matter how much we will be sitting in these benches in the future, is a much higher price and a much more significant task is to build a safe, stable, orderly society, a society that does not play by the light notes of the bass guitar, a society that is not based on the invitation to barricades, the Ukrainian scenarios and all the noise we are, unfortunately, due to political hatred for months back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23034	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Before I give the replica to Mr. Stefanovic, you, Mr. Babic, resented a few things -- why didn't I warn Mr. Stefanovic when he was talking about the New Sad drawers? I very much support the opening of these newly-sad drawers after 14 years and the processing of various fund managers, bank directors and institutions in Novi Sad in Vojvodina. Also, Mr. Martinovic was resented here for taking examples from some amendments. So if the amendments had been fully quoted, if the amendments had been read, I would have called for this to be done in the discussion day in particular, but since only some dates were mentioned from the amendments that were submitted, there was no logic in that. It is the legitimate right of every MP to do so. All of this is not a problem for me, it is a bigger problem for me to challenge a lady, Miss Batic, to be an authorised representative of the MPs who have submitted these amendments and to supplement the law that is on the agenda today. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23035	I was expecting something like this. You haven't answered anything, you haven't accepted your hand, you're unable to speak freely. If you knew anything about the solfeget, which I see you want to pass, you would know that there are no light notes in the bass guitar, there are only heavy notes. But there's not enough for you, Mr. Granny, so the same thing. As for the rest, the Fiscal Council today said that our public debt will be 83% of GDP by 2018 at the latest. Since you've been in power for five years and in those five years, you've put this country so far back, that no one else will be able to pick it up alive, nor should you think that anyone is thinking about any, as you said, violent methods, barricades or anything like that. That doesn't occur to anyone, I'm telling you in public. The whole thing will end in a peaceful, democratic way, no styrofoams, no sacks of ballots. With your hand down, smile, we'll escort you out of the office in a quiet way. No one's gonna hate anyone, no one's gonna chase anyone, no one's gonna hate anyone. It'll be your political end. It's something that's definitely coming. Call it whatever you want, with or without a tie. When we picked those dates, I didn't know it was your magnificent rally at the time. It's the one with the Styrofoam, for the citizens to understand. You've picked it up, you've always boasted that you've picked up all the garbage, good for you. The problem is what you did in the state after that, that's the problem. That's what your citizens won't forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23036	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23037	I repeat, when I say he won't forget you, he refers to a political relationship with what you do. You can't see the difference, and I'm terribly sorry. You keep seeing scenarios, Mr. Granny, I don't know why. Ask yourself, what does that mean in you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23038	Thank you. I would ask the MPs who debate that they do not say so easily – five years, 10 years. We know very clearly in this House that the SNS runs the government in full capacity. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Five years. ) That may be you, Mr Stefanovic, but for the citizens of Serbia for a year. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23039	There is one saying in the Serbian people -- the wolf changes hair, but never. How can we trust those who have raised up in Kosovo, so they have put down barricades, those who have burned this Assembly, who have lynched the RTS director, introduced crisis headquarters and entered the NBS with kalashnikovs and a sock on their heads, who rape democracy and power in Vojvodina with 6% support, and are now so kind, calm, only if all those statements they have made today and then about Ukrainian and Bosnian and any scenario? How do we trust these people? How can we believe and answer questions? I'm willing to answer every question, but I'm ready to rank those questions by the time some irregularities happen. Before answering the question of Mr. Stefanovic, I would like Mr. Stefanovic to answer my question – how is it possible that in the reform of the judiciary directed by Mr. Stefanovic, the way people were given the post of prosecutor or judge is the opinion, signature and seal of the DS municipal board and the president of the municipal board, which he says about someone, I do not want to speak for the name, that he is fair, valuable, on the part of an observed unsuspecting, professional, experienced, long-standing DS sympathiser, and most importantly, that he rejected all criminal charges against the officials of the DS municipal board? How can we trust these people whose only way is to reject criminal charges against officials of the municipal board is to reform the judiciary and give them a chance?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23040	Thank you. There were also some candidates who might have been corrupt. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23041	Thank you. I'll just answer to an esteemed colleague. Absolutely, I've told you before that I condemn it, that practice, if it's proven, and it's not, but that it is, and that I don't condemn it. There's one thing I need to say for the citizens. I know about that paper. It seems to me that the Municipality of Vlasotince and the man who collected these characteristics as a socio-political worker has long left the DS, but that doesn't matter. You know what's more important? That man, who you read him about making those lists, is today your coalition partner in that community. Do you know that, Mr. Granny? This is your man, with him you are in the coalition, and our people, you like to call upon him, he says, "Whomever you are with or who you are with." Therefore, as you begin to wave these papers, at least prepare yourself for man to be your coalition partner. It doesn't make sense to them. There are people here who have been in that power of ours, so now they're all embarrassed. Do you understand? Come on, please, level your position a little bit. I don't mind, but it's really a Woodville what you're doing. That man is your coalition partner and he makes lists of similarities. Your man, your coalition partner. That's why he's not in our party anymore. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Is that why? ) Among other things, that is why. You know what, it's not easy from the position of power, how you do, how you twist the story, twist the words. It's all right that you said, but it's not right, because of the citizens of Serbia, that you're misleading them and telling the truth about whether someone's been building barricades, whether they're burning the Assembly, whether they're calling for violence. Those are serious charges. You could still refrain, in that sense. Please, I told you we'd escort you out of power and I'll keep my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23042	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Not to mention past events now, because there's a mention of a person who doesn't know if it's true, but it's still known which foreigners and whose coalition partners are in. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Please, let's finish this cycle of replicas. Miss Batic is waiting long to as an authorised representative to give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23043	For SNS, it absolutely doesn't matter who he was or where he ends up, but how he does and what he does. In one day, I will remind you, arrested, detained, processed people and from the parliamentary group, or not parliamentary groups, but members of Mr Stefanovic's party and members of our coalition partner's party, as well as members of the SNS. And we don't have a problem with that. Did that ever happen in Serbia? Never. Because since 2012, the law has not been valid for everyone. It doesn't matter where someone ended up, but what, Mr. Stefanovic, behind this letter, on the basis of which people were appointed prosecutors and judges, you didn't answer, so you said – shame on you, whatever you do. No, you asked for letters like this. This is just one that ended up in public, and hundreds of them are from every municipal and city board, because you've been building a political judiciary, a political prosecutor's office. The prosecutor became because he rejected all criminal charges against DS officials. It's not about professionalism. Don't give God an average in college. What do we need that for? It doesn't matter how much judgment he had, how much judgment came back from his appeals or never came back. No, he defended DS, his son in DS, and now the one who finished it, who wrote it, where he ended up, did you condemn him when you were supposed to condemn him, when something like this came to you? No, you used it as a way, as a mechanism to put people in the position of judges and prosecutors. This is just one that ended up in the media, and how many, hundreds of them, ended up in the drawers of ministers from the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23044	Since the right of the heads of parliament groups has been exercised, the word has been given by the authorised representative, MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23045	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will try to be as brief as possible at the very end of this debate today. First, I would like to point out that I am sorry that we started today's session with a debate on amendments to Article 29, paragraph 2, whether we support it, whether we dispute it, and we end it by commenting on the Fiscal Council, the burning of the Assembly, the barricades, etc. At the very least, today’s day is dedicated to amending the Law on the Authority of Signatures, manuscripts, and transcripts. I'll say and I'll add – unfortunately. Unfortunately, we who are representatives of these same citizens and, unfortunately, these same citizens. In the first place, what must be pointed out is that the lack of knowledge of rights harms and this ignorance of the rights of the wrongdoers cannot be taken at all because the error is made out of ignorance, but when certain, completely untrue statements come from lawyers, those who are graduated lawyers by their education, then it is certainly at the expense of the citizens. In addition to the amendments mentioned by my colleague Martinovic, I think that the culmination of cynicism is seen in the amendment, where it is as the first-signed graduate lawyer, which reads: "Article 2 is changed and it is said – this law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger". You know, one who advocates such a solution to be permanent means that there is dualism, without any limitation from 1 January 2017, actually proposes such an amendment that this law enters into force on the eighth day of the day of publication, means next week, and this further means after 1 March, which falls on Sunday this week, and after actually full transposition into the exclusive jurisdiction of public notebooks to carry out the tasks of certification of signatures, transcripts and manuscripts. I have to look back on the lies that have been told here. So it's said, the regulations on public notebooks change quickly, as we can see, and correctly. Many times my colleagues worked and said, so again, today there was no discussion of the Law on Public Records at all, today it is on the agenda of the amendments to the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, Transcripts and manuscripts, so I don't think some of us today have even been familiar with the agenda, and far from reading the basic text of the law as well as the proposed amendment. With regard to the mentioned Law on Public Records, I must point out one fact that the last amendments and additions of the Law on Public Records are the result of the agreement between the professional teams of the Serbian and the Ministry of Justice and, if one is forgotten today, there have obviously been such MPs, they have, of course, confirmed by their presentations in the framework of the agreement between lawyers and the ministry, it is said that this law will not change, and this amendment that many say – only changes the deadline. Yeah, it's true, it's just changing the deadline, but the question is, why does a change of deadline seem? Well, it doesn't seem because we're doons and we don't have a better job to do, but it seems for one simple reason, which is that on March 1st, we wouldn't go all the way to the sole jurisdiction of doing all the work, or verifying the transcripts, manuscripts and signatures in the jurisdiction of public notebooks. It seems in fact what is necessary, what is necessary, some opposition colleagues would say – extorted. I can agree with that part that it was extorted, but that extortion seems absolutely for the sake of the citizens. What is the essence of this bill that I have mentioned, I thought that today would be a far more professional debate on it, and that much more time would be devoted to this bill, is what Serbian citizens should know and Serbia's citizens should, namely, know that they don't have to fear that Monday they will have to go to public notebooks to, say, verify the signature, but to just the proposed solution, which my colleagues and I have handed over, which we are signatories of such a bill, it is precisely that Serbia's still giving the citizens the opportunity to choose for themselves where they will do so. So here's the question right choice. Whoever wants to verify the signature, the manuscript, can choose whether it will do so in the public register, whether it will do so in the basic court, whether it will do so in the municipal administration. This is the essence of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration. I don't think there's any need to suggest anything further, at least not in this part when we're talking about the debate. The point is that a certain number of amendments have been received, I think 15 of which have been withdrawn. He was withdrawn, I think for the reason that a technical error was made, so it's not 20117, but in 2017, at least I want to believe in the good intentions of the applicant for the amendment. So, we're going to continue the debate, there are certain amendments that certainly deserve attention, so that same attention will be given on Wednesday when we speak in particular. That's what we deny, also individuals who have pointed out here that in this assembly they don't really want to hear someone else's opinion and they don't want to hear any difference at all. We've denied those today, we'll deny them, of course, on Wednesday. What is essential and what I once again on behalf of my colleagues who are today all the time, I must draw attention to and, be patient, sit down, like Mr Ned Jovanovic, to almost my colleague Dragan Nikolic and others, also authorised legislators of this law. We simply want to draw attention to the fact that it is the people who chose us as MPs, and as their representatives in this National Assembly, and hence we are first invited to protect these interests in the first order, regardless of whether they are seemingly one ordinary amendment to the law, regardless of whether it is a single session, with one sitting where there is only one item of the agenda, for God's sake, these are all the objections that have been made. But, I note, and all of this is less important if we look at the result of what is to come, which is exactly the protection of citizens and the simple right of choice to continue to choose until January 2017, whether those tasks, as I have already stated, will be carried out either by the public notary, but also by mentioning that the jurisdiction of the primary courts and municipal administrations to perform all the tasks of the signing, manuscript and copying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-23-0.u23046	Thank you, Miss Batic. According to Article 98(4), I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a principled review on the draft law. Continuing Wednesday at 10.00 p.m. to discuss the details.
