ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31906	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, gentlemen of Ministers, Your Excellency, I am opening the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I called this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by the President of the European Parliament, His Excellency, Mr Martin Schultz. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the Members of the People's Parliament and on my behalf, Mr Martin Schultz, as well as members of the European Union delegation attending this session. And now I ask His Excellency, Mr. Martin Schultz, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31907	Dear Members of the Assembly, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues of the Serbian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, respected representatives and representatives of the diplomatic court, it is my great honor and pleasure to address you today in the Serbian Assembly. I want to thank you for your invitation, and thank you for your warm welcome. I also want to thank you for coming back from your vacation to listen to me. I consider that an extra special honor. I would also like to congratulate you on a Serbian winning Wimbledon. I think for a day like today, we can't forget. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have a year after us in Europe during which numerous memorial gatherings have been held. Together we marked the outbreak of the First Serbian War a hundred years ago. World War I, the first disaster of the 20th century left behind a devastation and devastation of the continent. However, even greater destruction followed, the start of World War II that triggered Nazi Germany's incursion to Poland over 75 years ago and which ran over Europe. It was a huge disaster in the 20th century. Only the bombing of Belgrade by the German Air Force on 06 April 1941 resulted in 20,000 civilian victims, men, women and children. Germany, the country I represent in the European Parliament, has caused a huge disaster to the peoples of Europe, and the Holocaust, the deepest point of mankind's history, has burdened it with endless responsibility. That is why it was important and correct to remember this year the release of concentration camps and the victory over national socialism. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as the German President of the European Parliament, of a multinational National Assembly, after many years in European politics, every time these days of memory deeply touched the miracle that happened after World War II, namely that the winners of Germany did not touch them, did not humiliate them, but gave the sworn enemy a hand of reconciliation. The war ended in 1945, but in 1950, five years later, the International Community made it possible, it was France, the Benelux State, for us Germans to raise their heads back to the democratic community of the people, just five years after the end of World War II. What courage and far-sightedness the generation of the founders of the European community has shown. Ladies and gentlemen, it certainly wasn't popular. So shortly after the war, when the houses were still destroyed and the wounds had not yet been healed, it was not easy to tell the people that we will not take revenge, but we want to make reconciliation based on solidarity and action. With that decision, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Member States gave us a system of immunity to the war. These men and women gave the community institutions in which conflicts of interest between large and small, between rich and poor countries are resolved through dialogue and consensus. They, founders and founders, have established a community of peace and democracy, progress and solidarity. They, these men and women, founded friendships among people who only a few years earlier with guns in their hands were tearing each other apart. My children today are meant to live everywhere in Europe without borders, to live and work. What a achievement, what a success, what a privilege, in light of our bloody history. That is why I say that out of this European history, in my opinion, we have an obligation to oppose every day the return of old demons, hatred, intolerance, enmity and aggression. We must try to resolve the conflicts constructively and at the negotiating table. We must fight for democracy and freedom every day, for peace and for understanding, but also for preservation of memory, because reconciliation cannot be without memory. Reconciliation can only be when the suffering and pain we have experienced are acknowledged, when we remember how toxic rhetoric and populist haika violent acts have enabled. That's why I want to confess to Mr. Vukic in this home because he participated in the Srebrenica Memorial meeting on July 11th. Twenty years ago, in Srebrenica, eight thousand boys and men were killed systematically and bestially in a few days. In the middle of Europe, the worst war crimes in Europe occurred in front of the eyes of the entire world in Srebrenica after World War II ended. It has collectively silenced the international community, which has disgraced us all deeply. The fact that the Prime Minister was present a few days ago at that memorial gathering and being expelled by an angry crowd hit us deeply. We condemn these regrets a valuable incident. He must be an incentive for us all to work even more intensively on real reconciliation, and here I want to thank Mr. Vukic too, this morning I met with him and I told him myself. The fact that this incident did not interfere with him is something that serves him great honor. We must do everything, ladies and gentlemen, so that such violent acts cannot be repeated. It may be the best way to remember, to remember all those honors that were killed, raped, tortured or exiled in these catastrophic wars. I would like to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia for its initiatives and engagement to improve stability in the region. Talks with Kosovo should be listed first. I know it wasn't simple conversations, quite the opposite, it was very difficult conversations. Differences in attitudes and conflicts of interest between neighbours are an integral part of life. What is decisive is the way we treat them. You've intensified your contacts with Pristina. We welcome that strongly. I hope that in the talks you will be able to make progress when it comes to solving a number of problems. I would like to say something to you MPs, representatives of the Serbian people. Your country's willingness to compromise on these difficult issues certainly did not remain undetected in Brussels. As far as relations between Serbia and Albania are concerned, the good news for the whole region is. Prime Minister Rama and Prime Minister Mr. Vukic visited each other and made progress through constructive talks, which is good for all of Europe. This, among other things, created the basis for the exchange of young people, and these are projects, respected ladies and gentlemen, which will build bridges between peoples. These are projects, indeed compatible in the founding, in the European spirit. The convergence between Serbia and Albania will increasingly become the engine of co-operation across the region, so-called. Western Balkans 6 paves the way for a better future in the region. The agreement on a network of roads is a real cornerstone on the way to further development of this region. The transport network will bring the region closer together in economic, political and human relations. To you, Serbs, your country belongs to Serbia a key role in the region. Serbia is a key country. You can contribute fundamentally to co-operation and stability throughout the region. You, you can build bridges and you can establish common values in a shared neighborhood. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the European Union and Serbia will have to push in foreign policy in the same direction. Right now, when we face the challenges of a whole new species in the south and east. In the Middle East, we are faced with the collapse of states and the disgusting brutality of the Islamic state. The Eastern conflict continues in eastern Ukraine. In light of such geopolitical challenges, I would like us not to be divided and played, not to be turned against each other, but to be compatible and to work closely together. There are many things we should do together. One of them I'm also picking up increased refugee flows in the region. I am fully aware of the major challenges facing Serbia in overcoming the refugee movement. The world pays attention to refugee disasters in the Mediterranean. It is unbearable and unacceptable for people to find protection in Europe in an attempt, tragically drowning on our shores. Humanity tells us to give the stranglers a hand of salvation. I also know the figures of the UNHCR High Council that confirm today, that more people today want to arrive in Europe via the Western Balkans than through the Mediterranean. A thousand refugees every day. For Serbia, this is an disproportionately large task. Hungary's response to the challenge by wanting to lift a 175km long fence at the border with Serbia is unacceptable. Problems are not solved by building up or raising walls. It is contrary to the European spirit. To hold hands and leave no one alone and find solutions together, it is in agreement with the European spirit. The European Union has already approved eightm euros for the migration management programme and has put another million euros at its disposal to support your asylum system. Such a rise in refugees can really be overcome only with a coordinated regional approach, and therefore the EU is ready to work closely with Serbia, in overcoming refugee problems. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the European Parliament has always advocated the European perspective of the Western Balkans, and we want the Western Balkans to move towards a peaceful and stable, democratic and prosperous future. We are counting on the possibility that negotiations on the first chapters with Serbia will be open by the end of the year. That way, for all of us, dear colleagues and colleagues, the job is about to begin. One question, and that's what I'm trying to say to you, is that we're very concerned, and that's freedom of the media. When we need to open chapters, then we need to seriously talk about how independence, diversity and media freedom in every EU country can be guaranteed in any country that wants to become an EU member. In your country, ladies and gentlemen, the power of attorney, the Protector of the Citizens, I unfortunately cannot say that in Serbian, in your native, therefore, name of the Protector of the Citizens, I think it's a great name for that function, make sure we don't have to protect the Protector of Citizens. Dear colleagues and colleagues, to us MPs, to you and us in the European Parliament, is an extremely important task, in negotiations that will soon begin. You are discussing and adopting the laws that the government is proposing to reform your country. It is your task to explain why these reforms are important and correct, and the implementation of these laws is yours. I want you to be successful in that. The European Parliament will be happy to support you in this, and I hope that you and we as European MPs and you as national MPs, on the way to Serbia, to the EU, will be successful and will co-operate. We stand by those who give their neighbours a hand of reconciliation and give the hand of democracy and the establishment of a rule of law. Logically, therefore, we are on the side of Parliament, on your side. We stand by all those who give their neighbors a hand of reconciliation and who, together and in mutual respect, want to live. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is a great country. Serbia has a great tradition and history. Serbia is a proud country, but Serbia is one, and it is an integral part of Europe and therefore this country belongs to us peoples in the democratic community of the countries of Europe. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31908	I thank His Excellency for his address and conclude the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you. (The session is closed at 11.40 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31909	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Third Day of Work) 01 Issue: 06-2/309-15 July 2015 (The session began at 12.40 p.m.). The session is chaired by Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31910	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the number of Members of Parliament's presence, I find that 150 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Vladimir Pavicevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Branko Ruzic and Ivana Dinic. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular of the Law on the conversion of the right to use property rights on building land with compensation. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I called for today's session to be attended by Prof. Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure; Aleksandar Damnjanović, State Secretary at the Ministry; Mr. Djordje Milic, Deputy Minister of the Ministry and Ljubomir Aksentjevic, special adviser to the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vuć, Miloslav Milojevic, Aleksandra Tomic, Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has the peoples of the MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31911	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished Minister Mihajlovic, respected guests, respected citizens, in Article 1st point 1), following the words "privatisation" are added to the words "self-inflicted transformation". Why did we do that? For a simple reason, we proposed this amendment for the reasons of the 1991 and 1997 laws because it remains unclear, we said on the board, whether these cases are also covered by a conversion where the right to use is transformed into property rights. This is just one of the things that were incorrectly done and written and proposed in this proposal for a law on conversion with compensation, and we believe that the Anti-Corruption Agency has warned from these and similar things this bill and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that they are subject to a huge risk of corruption for the simple reason that they are not clearly defined the most basic things. Article 84. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says everyone must be equal in the competition. This is exactly the bill and this member is the first one that doesn't put them in the same position. So, this is an amendment, which unfortunately has not been adopted, and we believe that it will only contribute to an unfair conversion without compensation proposed today by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, although the title includes a conversion with compensation and we believe that this is a bad solution and the DS from this first member and further says that it will not vote for the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31912	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31913	Dear MP, if the DS had done so when it was in power, that is to say, by law, the privatisation would not have had 650 suspicious privatisations and broken contracts and certainly would not have passed this law today, but the issue of conversion would have been resolved much earlier, in a much more appropriate and legal way. That's my answer to yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31914	I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31915	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31916	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished Minister Mihajlovic, the robbery privatisation was carried out during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic when you were Dinkic's first advisor. So Mr. Labus and Mr. Dinkic were in the government from 2004 to 2007 when 23 controversial privatisations by the European Commission were thus assessed and you are someone who has done this privatisation among other things in this way. You are now honoring me for mixing my fingers there, and I am personally someone who did not take care of various privatisations in Serbia from 2004 to 2007, and you were a member of the G17 Plus, a party that was then in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31917	Ambassador, would you be kind enough to tell me all this?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31918	So what's important is that citizens know the truth. I can't answer for something that happened in 2004 when you were in power. For this reason, I ask you to express yourself more precisely because you accuse someone who was not then a member of any political organisation but a student representative. I think it is very important that citizens know that you were in the government when 23 controversial privatisations that the European Commission so assessed, embarrassed Serbia with hundreds of thousands of redundancies and today you are passing laws to allow those same owners of these companies to convert without compensation and to put hundreds of millions of euros in their pocket, and 492 million in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31919	The word has Minister Mihajlovic, but don't ask for a replica, just to clear it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31920	Let's just say that by this law of turning rights of use into property rights or the right to lease, a fee is paid at the market value determined by the tax administration or by the witches, as we believe we've allowed the amendments. There's a little confusion in counting. It's not 24 but 650 suspicious privatisations where contracts were broken during the government among other DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31921	The word is Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31922	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. We cannot accept this amendment, of course, and what is important in the discussion of the applicants of this amendment is when the word "corruption" is mentioned, I think that the party and the man who submitted this amendment must not pronounce that word because I believe that corruption is a second name for the party that has submitted this amendment. You're talking about equality and market, as you said, a game of competition. Who in Serbia has had a fair relationship with privatisation in the last 15 years, and that is not someone close to the party that has submitted this amendment. What are you talking about? When we talk about this law that finally wants to introduce certain things into the system, a system that you never knew how to do...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31923	Messenger, and for you, speak to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31924	I'm talking to you. I can look anywhere and I can mention you. Basically, when I talk about this law, everyone here participated in the drafting of this law and not the government sector and the government sector. Public debates were also held in Nis and Belgrade and Užica, Krusevec, the American Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade. I know you're in a lot of pain when someone wants to set up a system. We've been listening here for days to get something out of the budget. No, that used to be. You used to run politics one way, and that's the way to pump money out of the budget, is that how the chairman is? Yes, it is. Today we have a completely different approach, which is that certain funds go into the budget and when we talk about conversion and when we talk about the money that we can charge over the next three years, which is a billion and 400m euros, half of which goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget where it will be distributed with the province budget and local self-government, and the rest in the same amount goes to the Restitution Fund, for the Restitution Agency. What are you talking about here? In 2009, you passed a law that was unconstitutional. You knew everything that you were doing that was out of line with the law and you were sitting with those tycoons and the party that created them in the last 15 years, mentioning that SNS had anything to do with them. Give me a tycoon that started in 2012 or 2013. They won't find it, and there are hundreds of them today in the party that proposed this amendment and who were harassing Serbia and destroying our economy and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31925	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31926	Thank you, Madam President. Based on this argument we have heard from the amendment's promoter, I do nevertheless conclude that there is no argument in the background of this proposal. Why isn't there? As we were able to hear earlier, I remind you – problematicly, here, it should be, as if, not a precise enough formulation, as the Anti-Corruption Agency points to, and I quote, "there is a huge risk of corruption." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a lie. I have before me a letter from the Anti-Corruption Agency for the competent assembly committee addressed to date 13. 07, so, one very relevant and recent data. First, there is no formulation of the terrible risk of corruption. It says: "We believe that the proposal continues to contain certain shortcomings. “ This is the most difficult qualification. And when you look at the taxis that are certain shortcomings that are suggested that there might be further work on them, anywhere, absolutely nowhere mentions Article 1 or any inaccuracies, none of what we've heard. If that's the only argument, I can conclude and repeat it once again – that the arguments actually don't exist. It certainly has nothing to do with those billions and 400 million, which we can talk about today, but, please, if we're going to do this right, it's going to have to be a lot more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31927	Mr. Balsha, do you want the word after the amendment? Minister Mihajlovic? [[Balša Bozovic, from town: No, Replica.]] (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Replica na minister's exhibition. He can't. You caused the replica, I gave it to you, and she answered. If you want to be specific about the amendment, I'd love to, it's your right and you're welcome. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31928	Thank you very much. The amendment states that in Article 1, paragraph 2(2), the bill states: “13. May 2003" replaces the words "13." May 2013’. This is due to one need to bring this law in line with the Law on Planning and Construction. I now call on the citizens and citizens of Serbia to hear the reason why it is rejected: "The amendment is not accepted since Article 102, paragraph 9. The Law on Planning and Construction stole a technical error relating to the date of entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction, the first law on Planning and Construction came into force on 13 May 2003. “ This is what we got from the Serbian government, this attitude. This means that the Serbian government admits that we have the law, I also use those five minutes, in which there is a technical error, meaning the law with error, the feller law, where for 10 years a technical error has been interpreted, 10 years in which the largest number of those 24 or 625 occurred, or I don't know how many suspicious, illegal, and who knows what kind of privatisations. We get an explanation that the amendment should be rejected because there is already a law with a mistake, so if my amendment and other colleagues refuses, we will continue to make mistakes. What about repairing mistakes? Why didn't you change the Law on Planning and Construction? Why is there a law that's been in force for two years and a law that has a mistake? What could be the result of a mistake? The result of the error can be given to the Serbian judiciary, which has not been reformed five years ago, and not today, where various disputes, where various privatisation entities, new owners, their debtors, trustees, will start various disputes concerning the error -- has something been going on since 2013 or something since 2003? I hope no one hates the date alone, May 13th, former Security Day. Maybe it has something to do with this whole story? But to be serious, I think it's an unforgivable mistake and this law can't be passed if it's based on the Law on Planning and Construction, or if it's part of the same Corps of Law, or if it has a direct connection in application without correcting the first law that's been wrong for two years. I understand that mistakes happen, but I can't understand that there's been a mistake for two years and a few months, and it doesn't bother anyone, and especially the authorities in this country, who keep saying that they want to correct the mistakes of the past. I can absolutely testify to you that there have been no mistakes, but deliberate mistakes in the past. That's what I was talking about when neither the congregation majority, nor some members of the government, talked about it, and many were involved in all these mistakes. So you can't tell me it was something, so I took part. No, I didn't. When some colleagues call for 15 years what happened, to remind you, in those 15 years, the SNS has been present for three years, which means that you are accusing yourself. Not to mention your coalition partners, who have been present for a very long time. I'm not present. And most of the ruling majority are present in those 15 years, at least half of them, and you're at least three years old. I was already talking in the principle debate about the fact that it's a very suspicious thing, i.e. now it's our intention, why are we being set up on Friday at 7:00 p.m., and we had to make a statement about it at 10 a.m. on Monday morning? That's the reason. For some reasons, the Anti-Corruption Agency, which, look at that, sent its report on July 13th, on Monday. And they didn't make it in time before the amendment. They also warn the government and parliament that there is a lot of illogicalness, a lot of poorly solved parts of the law and that it must be fixed. But their warning came too late, because even those people can't wait when someone from Germany will remember to send us the law, so they can wait on Saturday and Sunday to give their opinion. This is not the first time that the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency is belittled in this parliament, to say – it does not matter, especially from the government, but of course, and from the assembly majority. What did they say? That it is a very unusual, strange, or prone to corruption, way of reducing the percentage of the reduction, that it is not a clear thing, and we agreed that the issue of control, or communication with state aid control, is the same open question, that paying a fee is complicated, that is, where there are many conditions for corruption, especially with that reduction of 30%. So, I think, no matter what the principle debate has been, that it is best, I would accept it without liquefying and without any bad intentions, that the government withdraws the law, to first correct the technical error, supposedly, of the Law on Planning and Construction, and then send us an immediate amendment to this law. We are ready, myself and my colleague Pavicevic, I am sure, and most of the opposition, to wait all summer for these repairs and to adopt them as soon as possible, not to stop the reforms, not to stop the road to the EU, but obviously not us, but to do so by the Serbian Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31929	Thank you. You've wasted your time on the discussion. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31930	I believe you're ready to wait, but we're not ready to wait. We are trying to make room for construction in Serbia. I must say, when you talk about the Law on Planning and Construction, there is an adequate date in all members except one member, which is obviously a reflection of a legal-technical editorial that is not done properly for that member. We, as the Ministry, will insist that it be fixed. I also have to tell you that this government may be able to make a technical mistake, but certainly it can't make a single moment, and it's never made a fundamental mistake, which was great, I'd say, the previous governments, and that's why, among other things, we have this law today. When you talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency, it said in the part of determining a possible reduction in payment on conversion that maybe the government shouldn't be the one to determine the percentage of the reduction, considering, as an independent agency, that the government shouldn't do it. The agency's been sent the law twice. So, they didn't get just like that, all of a sudden, they didn't get to look, and when we had the debate in principle, you said you got the law at 6:00 Friday, and now you said 7:00, so maybe something with the numbers isn't right. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31931	If you're going about it when you get it, it's a congregation matter and a minister there... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Minister replied to me, and what I'm going to say... She's got to answer you, but she didn't cause a replica. That's a huge difference. I don't know how you interpret the Rules of Procedure. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Yes, but I have the right to replica.]] You're not mentioned, it's not offensive. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I think I'm right. All right. I think we should use that next time. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31932	Dear Minister, dear fellow MPs, when I read this law I saw a major fundamental mistake, in my opinion, I'm sorry that the minister is using the term that it's a technical mistake, because this is about not agreeing with numbers in ten years. So, here a mistake is being stolen in such a way that this Bill of Law in Article 1 also states that persons who are holders of the rights of use on built land, etc., etc. are covered by this law by 13 May 2003 or on the basis of a court decision, etc., etc. In Article 102. The Law on Planning and Construction states that these companies and legal entities are limited by the law to fit into those deadlines that are bound by May 2013. When I saw the difference between one member and another, I first hoped that there was a mistake in this bill and that through this amendment we would be able to correct this error. However, when the conclusion was that the mistake was actually made in the Law on Planning and Construction, then you see that you have a big problem and that this is not a technical error, as the minister says, but rather a fundamental error. If we were to properly analyse this bill, you would see that this is ten years from 2003 to 2013. And if, on the other hand, we think about it, you'll see that all the controversial privatisations that took place in this country happened during that period. If this amendment is not adopted and Mr. Zivkovic's proposal to withdraw the law from the procedure, we have a terrible problem as a state, big processes are being opened here and this law will fall into the water very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31933	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31934	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as I understand it, are making a lot of noise about one technical mistake. Who's doing that and making mistakes. It's just that mistakes are being stolen and I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Some people are wrong, and some people are just wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31935	The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31936	The President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has submitted five amendments to this law. When it comes to amendment to Article 1 of the Law, I will read it. It is proposed to delete from this article a position relating to sports clubs, i.e. clubs dealing with the organisation of sports events under the Sport Act and as such are registered. The reason is that – given the position of sports clubs, the assets they use, it would be socially justified for this area to be fully regulated by a special law that would address their position, possible privatisation and others, because they would otherwise create corrupt risks. I'll use my five minutes. So, this amendment, respected vice president, requires that sports clubs be exempt from this law so that no orderly situation in sports clubs can lead to someone showing up as a customer or a tenant through the conversion of rights of use and that we have serious problems, i.e. this created a serious corrupt risk. An explanation why this amendment has not been accepted is not as funny as an explanation for the amendment of the New Party's MPs, but it is legally funny and extremely legally controversial. Namely, here it is said – that this amendment, its acceptance would be contrary to the provisions of Article 102, paragraph 9. The Law on Planning and Construction, which lists the number of the Official Messenger. Madam Minister, teach the people who work with you, who are lawyers. There's no supermation of the law in our legal system. So there's only supermation of the Constitution and there's no more important and less important law. By this law, as we have done hundreds of times backwards, you can change any member of any law by means of a provision that ceases to apply the provision of a member of that law and of that law. So it's just the Constitution in supermation compared to the laws. It's not a good explanation, and now I'm asking you the essence - what makes you think that this law doesn't need to exclude sports clubs, even the prime minister said that there is so much crime in sports clubs that it can't deal with that problem? I really trust him. True, I don't know why he agreed to be prime minister when he can't deal with the situation in sports clubs, or the mafia in sports clubs that you give the opportunity to sign up as property owners. Mrs. Mihajlović, tell me why you did not wait for a special law that would regulate this issue specifically, and privatisation, and conversion of the right to use in property or long-term law? On the other hand, it is quite clear from this member of the law, from not accepting this amendment that this is about the interests of the rich, as you call them, the tycoon, and that this law has been written, as the banks have written before, concerning mortgages, rich tycoons. You know their names well, they are well known to you and they enjoy being swept into your three years of power, because their capital is increasing. One of the largest tycoons in the country these days has announced that its profits have increased by 10%. I guess it's the only company whose profits have grown in the last three years. It's true, you didn't accept my amendments, but you accepted the suggestions of the American Chamber of Commerce. I don't think it's bad and it's in itself controversial, but I think that in the first place it should be the interests of the citizens of Serbia, not the American Chamber of Commerce that protects the interests of American businessmen in Serbia, and she did participate in writing this law, and that's not bad, but you had to protect the interest of the state. As I believe, no cocus can be above the interest of Serbian citizens, and the interest of Serbian citizens is that a billion and 400 euros, last time you corrected me, will be in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not in the pockets of some tycoons that will take advantage of the possibilities of this law. That is why I am going back to this amendment specifically. Accept this amendment, you have a legal option, put this amendment into this law, rule out sports clubs from the possibility that they become property owners that they use so that someone, as you like to say, treats fish, becomes the owner of a serious property, or land, building land. Mrs. Mihajlovic, and we will talk about other amendments later where I ask through amendments that the law be in the interest of citizens, not the tycoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31937	The word has a minister. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31938	Very short. I didn't understand that about the fish carpet, but what I'm trying to say is that this law should allow these corruptions, which you mention not to be, and our task among other things is by the Constitution, we're dealing with building land and this law solves only that question, therefore, that concerns building land. When we talk about court clubs, no matter what the situation was in those sports clubs, arranged or unarranged, but they are mostly owned by local self-government states. After all, they were built by a state or an army or a local self-government, and in that sense they must certainly be, or they must be within this law. They also have certain land and must pay for the conversion to that. But this law is made in the interests of Serbian citizens, and this is what the government has proposed and adopted and proposed to MPs precisely because this is how we solve a big issue and allow Serbia to be built, because, the interest of Serbian citizens is to be employed, to have jobs, to receive salaries. This same or any other chamber that gave its suggestions, primarily the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, for example, which gave its suggestions, including the American Chamber of Commerce, does not come out in the interests of the American Chamber of Commerce or any other, but rather in the interests of people who are employed in 190, let's say, the company or interests of investors who have invested 14 billion euros here by hiring our people and achieving and increasing our country's economic growth. So our interest is that citizens work, so that people can work here must be invested and built. In order for it to be built, it invests we have to release and arrange the property, the property issue by building land, and that's why this law was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31939	Time. Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31940	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am a farmer. I don't have much school, but I do agriculture mostly. I've been looking at a member of the Rules of Procedure, not advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 161 to determine which one has the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31941	Were you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31942	No, I didn't. I'm just saying that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31943	Just about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31944	Just the amendment and I'm talking, article 161 is talking about amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31945	Well, speak, but you're talking about a specific amendment now, otherwise I have to stop you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31946	Well, I guess I have the right to, when I explain or speak, comment on the amendments to call on the Rules of Procedure a little bit, to say that article 161 regulates the submission of amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31947	All right, you're wasting the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31948	Of course I'm wasting the time of the parliamentary group, nothing is disputed. What was I gonna say? No matter how hard I've tried to use this school as much as I have to understand the meaning of who has the right to submit amendments, I've never found that right to have an NGO or an NGO...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31949	MPs have the right to submit amendments. Ambassador, indeed. And please talk specifically about the amendment, not the applicant.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31950	Madam President, so I'm talking about the amendment as much as the promoter did. Not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31951	You're wrong. You're wrong this time. I really...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31952	Can you listen to two sentences, so I can continue? So the proposer immediately said in the introduction that it was a proposal for an amendment submitted by the Turnover Movement. I do not dispute the right to submit amendments to any fellow MP, nor to the applicant of the bill, nor to the Government, nor to the committee responsible. But what I'm slowing down and he's in an unambiguous manner of saying, here's a colleague who's been present, that the amendment has submitted the Turnover Movement, which is not true...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31953	MP, you're still gonna have to talk about the amendment, and the names of the association I can't argue here. I'm neither administrative nor court.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31954	Madam President
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31955	Please don't. If you have anything, you'll come to my office and we'll talk about it. So this is going to be a debate or serious or I'm going to let everyone talk about whatever they want. So, we've finished our discussion about the bearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31956	Madam President, we've finished our discussion and I have no intention of coming to your office.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31957	I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31958	As for sports clubs, the promoter also talked about sports clubs, so you'll allow me at least the right to comment on that part. I think clubs should be allowed to have the right of conversion given that these facilities need to be restored. They can't rebuild those objects. They cannot obtain appropriate permits unless they have a certain way of regulating the building land that belongs to these facilities, which is now state-owned. If sports clubs do not get the right to convert in such situations, our facilities, sports facilities, I mean stadiums and halls, will remain in a state where they were in 1945 or 1953 or 1960 when they were building. I think it's an interest to develop sport, I would even suggest that sports clubs have as many advantages as possible in order to get some funding, and together with building sports facilities, to have the right and to have commercial content within these sports facilities, on the basis of which to finance the sports branch for which the sports facility was built, or whose branch of sport is the club used by that sports facility. As for the tycoon, which has been transferred to us in the explanation of the amendments, the amendmentr reportedly said that we are doing so in favour of the tycoon, I must say that from 2012 I do not know that any tycoon has occurred, from 2012 to today. It is said here that 10% of the profits were made by a tycoon company and I believe that it was roughly thought of by that tycoon who was the party's financial director on whose list was an MP and on behalf of whom he was an official in the government. So, this tycoon was the financial director of that party, and if he thought that these tycoons were being transferred to us now, I disagree with that situation in which he wants to do this to us in a certain way, he has violated the dignity of this National Assembly and of all MPs, and I would ask for an apology from fellow MPs who proposed this amendment and who told us at the beginning of his reasoning that it was an amendment from an NGO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31959	Let me tell you, you have more freedom than any MP here, and then some time respect when someone asks you to respect the Rules of Procedure. The word has Alexander Markovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31960	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak exclusively of the amendment, Madam Chairman, but I would like first of all to correct the Honorable Doctor of Legal Science. So, it's not saying - supermation, it's saying - subpremation. And I expect the gratitude of a respected doctor of science. I propose that this amendment be rejected to Article 1. Proposal for a law which provides for the erasure of point 3. I would say that the amendment has completely overshadowed some of the other independent MPs who have buried us with similar amendments that have been going on for months - is deleted. I find it unacceptable to delete for all those reasons why the government has refused and provided us with an explanation for not accepting this amendment. What is also unacceptable to me, Madam Chairman, is also the explanation of the amendment itself and the use of some estimates and some words such as crime, corrupt risks, the situation in sports clubs, which he has already talked about, tycoons, etc. I have to ask - who created these tycoons? During whose power were these tycoons created? I'll remind you, during your power, or party or party where you were just created those tycoons. Who made it possible for them to get the right to use building land? For all these reasons, I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31961	Ambassador, I'll give you my word, just say what you've been told, except for the correction in the pronunciation of the word. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: I was asked a question. No, no, no, questions to each other, no, they don't belong to Article 104. I'm sorry. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. She's not here. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31962	Article 2 of the proposal states that Article 2 of Article 3 replaces the word “that” with the word “undeveloped”. The objective of this amendment is very clear to anyone who wants to read and is capable of doing the act, which is that "this land" is a very broad definition. What does "this land" mean? Unbuilt land has a very precise definition. The amendment is not accepted, says the Government, for the reason that the subject of conversion of the right cadaster plot was built and unbuilt building land, as prescribed in Article 5, etc., etc. My question is: Why are the words built and not built? Which is the third option with land, because it can be built and not built, can't be built and built in half. This precision in the amendment that I have given, along with other colleagues, is precisely to define which land this member is referring to and that is that it should refer to unbuilt land. Reforms are, of course, necessary to Serbia, necessary, but they cannot be defended by the law defending people who are mildly uninformed about matter, and on the other hand, it is very sad when the Prime Minister defends the law by making a big drama about whether someone said the bill came Friday at 6:15 p.m., or at 7.00 p.m. If this is a crown argument for this law, if those who have defended it in the past five, six minutes are crown experts, Serbia falls.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31963	It's been a while. Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31964	Dear Minister, my motives to submit this amendment are primarily related to the clear formulation and precision of these terms, because I felt that this Article 2 should instead of "it" or put the term "building land", because in this article it is also a story, or "undeveloped land", as I put it in the amendment proposal, because I felt that it was precisely in this Article 2 that termologically what is actually done in this law and that this termology and the subjects of Articles 3, 7, 8 and 9. On Sunday and Monday, when we wrote these amendments, I did not have this view of the Corruption Agency, and I am glad that my thoughts fully coincide with the opinion of the Corruption Agency, which in this Article 2 has warned you that in some ways this must be specified and that this does not happen, and that this Article 2 is to be contrary to Articles 3, 7, 8 and 9. in which you are talking about which cases may be excluded from the law, or where a reduction may occur. So your attempt to leave a space for corruption here, in a broad definition of terminology, is obvious. I was not in the first reading of the bill at all, however, when we later tried to make our contribution through amendments to improve this law, we saw how big this space is and how great the risks are. So I urge you once again to consider, together with the Committee, that instead of this word, "it" should be used either "building land" or "unbuilding building land". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31965	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31966	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe it's just a mistake. Article 2 – does the fee in this bill that lies before us apply exclusively to unbuilt land? As things stand, it is mentioned for both built and in that sense we need to understand the answer we received from the government. So if it refers to both built and not built, in different ways, and that's why these two terms are potentiated, it's different to treat the possibilities of a reduction. That's what members of 7 to 9, so there are different possible approaches, something to build, something to build. There's no need to waste time on why we're talking about each other. If a fee is introduced for both categories, then it is clear why it would be wrong to limit this to just one of those two terms, whatever we choose. In addition to all of this, some issue of corruption, some terrible report, a terrible opinion, the condemnation of the Anti-Corruption Agency, is persistent. Let's mention it one more time. We could all look at her in this room, because she came to the congregation, specifically I got her through the board. How many big problems did they have, who's going to make the right number? I counted, I didn't get into the weight of qualifications for every single person, but if there were a lot of them, there weren't any. In particular, it points to four things, and that, I just said in what words, that there's room to maybe still improve the law, and that's that. Advantages, we may, in the performances of dramatization here, caricate so much, there is no report. Far from saying, as someone here has said, that this agency's opinion has been diminished. The agency itself in that letter we're talking about says that the promoter has complied with some of her suggestions. When we look at the very end of the formulation that the Agency is talking to the Committee when it mentions that there are a few other things that it thinks is worth considering, you come across a sentence – it invites MPs to consider taking suggestions and suggestions. Is there anger here, is there a disaster in these words? Of course not. Instead of showing a thing more dramatic than it is and what it deserves to be, let's deal with things specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31967	I ask all MPs to speak in the microphone, you can't hear at all. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31968	Dear fellow Members, in fact, we are fundamentally different from this member and according to the position of the Corruption Agency. I believe that Article 2 should have been more precisely defined in order to avoid any risks of misreading all the other members who are talking about a possible reduction. The Agency for Corruption has made it very clear and very decadent that the members of the law, in fact in an indirect or indirect way, are jeopardizing the fundamental intention of this law, is to make a conversion with compensation. So, just because you've left an opportunity in several places and in several members, you've left room for corruption with the general formulation of access to solving certain problems. Among other things, the Agency for Corruption draws attention to you that it is not good for local administration authorities, i.e. authorities dealing with property legal issues, to have no criteria on which they reduce a certain price. You have not defined the deadlines, nor the criteria, nor the penalty measures for those who do not comply with the law. These are very serious objections from this agency and don't treat them as technical anymore, they're essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31969	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31970	It's literally two sentences. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd almost be able to say to the previous exposure all nicely, but I have one question. Where is this amendment in any way related to what was said earlier? Here's the Agency's opinion. Where it is said here in any way, whatever you want to say -- the problem is that word "it" in Article 2 and where it says here -- it would be better to resolve it in another way, as proposed by the amendment. It's not said anywhere. Why? I've said it before, because it would be completely wrong to do it like that. So, once again, let's talk about the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31971	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31972	I thank you, President. Dear Minister, in the principle debate on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have given an explanation of this amendment, pointing to the possibility of establishing a market value through an engaged artist, i.e. an expert assessor. I then called on the provisions of the Expropriation Act, which also allows for the possibility of hiring an expert expert, so we accepted in the SPS parliamentary group that there is the possibility that an amendment which is not ours, but in case it is such an emphasis, to accept that in addition to the Tax Administration, in addition to those average prices of a square metre listed in the Bill's proposal, one of the options for determining the value would be engagement, i.e. through the involvement of an expert of an appropriate profession. I would only like to hear on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group whether such an amendment has been accepted, whether there has been a modality, in addition to the proposed value-setting method, that this is alternative and other way of determining values, which is by hiring an expert assessor or an expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31973	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the third amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31974	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Article 3 is another member warned by the Anti-Corruption Agency. It foresees that the level of compensation can be reduced in accordance with the conditions laid down in this law and the rules on State aid control, thus giving public authorities discretion in deciding on the matter. The text of the draft law further discusses how all this compensation can be reduced. In Article 8, we see that the compensation is fully and abolished, which is why in the media, many businessmen thank the government of the Republic of Serbia. I think the Anti-Corruption Agency has absolute right not to trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to state aid, because the same government of the Republic of Serbia has already shown in the past that it is inclined to give state aid to various private projects, of which the Republic of Serbia has only damage. In the case of "Belgrade on Water", we have seen the Government of the Republic of Serbia providing state aid to build shopping malls and luxury apartments, and now it is no wonder that the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will, in these cases, provide state aid to its business partners and people close to the SNS for the construction of projects of which only they benefit, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia exclusively harm. What I have said is not DS, but the words of the Anti-Corruption Agency, but, I say, at least we should be happy that this Article 2 speaks of a reduction in compensation, because, as we see later in the law, that compensation is completely and abolished, which is what many businesses throughout the media are thanking you for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31975	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31976	A little clarification. The final reduction is given by the Commission for State aid control, not by the Government. And to this member of the law, we also got full support from the European Commission, without a single comment that this is wrong. So it's not the Government, it's the Commission and it's about each case individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31977	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31978	Thank you, Madam President. Let's do it one more time, no matter how many times it takes. Great, but what does it have to do with the amendment? Is it possible that we submitted the amendments just to secure some space here for a live performance? I would like to invite the promoter to look at the text of the amendment he has proposed, so let's see if it has anything to do with anything in the Agency's memo, except to mention the same member somewhere. It has nothing to do with matter. The agency, for its part, whenever in any law, any one, or so, raises a question of discretionary authority, raises doubts. Does that automatically mean it's going to be a problem? Well, it doesn't. We've had so many experiences with discretionary powers in various laws. So, in itself, it's absolutely nothing problematic. What is problematic is what we are suggested here to replace one word with another or two words with another pair, to probably sound, and then to represent it as a defense of the state from some sort of corruption. If it's possible, we get serious, so we can talk about this so that it makes sense, as the law is really discussed, and long stories based on pure politics can be left behind for some talk show shows, TV, party stands, rallys. There will be some elections soon, and then there will be opportunities to cross the attitudes of that kind, if we are certainly able to argue in an argument about something like a legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31979	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31980	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, "The Turnover Movement" has tabled a very similar amendment to the SPS MPs. Mr. Neđo Jovanovic explained the reasons why he believes it is possible to provide for an alternative possibility for an expert of the financial profession to carry out the value of the price of concrete land besides the tax authorities. Why? Because anyone related to the determination of the value of the real estate price and the building land knows that tax authorities do not have adequate, or sometimes do not match the adequate market price for immovable land. Therefore, it may be that according to tax authorities, the price of something 100 dinars is essentially worth 150 or 50 dinars, depending on the area. Therefore, when determining the value of immovableity, courts shall take into account the assessment of experts in the financial profession. That is why it is very important, if we want to establish a market price, to predict the possibility that experts of the financial profession, experts or super-skillers determine the value of the land and then there is no mistake. If we have an expert, and if we're looking for super-art, we come up with a market value. It's not just any warlocks, it's warlocks that are designated as experts in the financial profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31981	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31982	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have now carefully sought this amendment and I could not find any amendment that proposed "The Turnover Movement". I don't know what the problem is. Is it a problem that a doctor of law doesn't know that NGOs can't propose amendments, that this right belongs to MPs who, in particular and together, can propose amendments? The legislator may also propose amendments and the committee responsible may propose its amendment. It has not yet happened in practice in this National Assembly that NGOs have the right, NGOs, to propose amendments. It's not clear to me at all, I've been persistently looking for this kind of amendment, I can't find it anywhere, so I can't accept the interpretation and reasoning of a doctor of law, a professor of law at the state college, that, given his legal experience, he can claim that an NGO, an NGO, an NGO can propose amendments. So I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31983	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, and then by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31984	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join the opinion of the Government, which proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'll read it because it's short. He says in his explanation - the amendment is not accepted because it is imprecise and that the findings and opinions of the experts, even if this amendment were accepted, should consist of an authorised expert in construction, not economic professions. I don't think anyone's contesting it, therefore, the purpose of this argument. However, today, given the fact that I have been given an ungrateful role to play in correcting a respected doctor of legal science, I still have to react. So, in the light of this amendment, in the second sentence, we find one strange word, he says: “If these opinions do not match the price set out in paragraph 1 of this article. ” Honestly, I've heard this word for the first time. I believe it was a mistake, that it was an opinion, and perhaps a pardon. We'll see. I expect gratitude from the previous speaker, the distinguished professor and doctor of legal science. The bottom line is we suggest we reject this amendment and I urge you not to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31985	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31986	Thank you. I'm just going to relate to what's been said, both Dr. Vesenovic's amendment and the amendment similar to the one we're just discussing, which is Mr. Neđa Jovanovic. I must stress that in every European state, when we talk about the amount of compensation that is determined for something, then it is done on the basis of the assessment of the court's skills. It is the position of our case-law and it is undeniably so established, and our case-law, and unless it is a formal source of law, and it is not formal, is something that will change in the coming period. On the other hand, the situation here is similar to what we had when we discussed "Belgrade on Water", and there it is also stated in one provision that the land market value assessment is carried out by the tax administration. I have submitted an amendment to such a member so the City of Belgrade would not accept the amendment, but that is why Minister Vujovic wanted to accept the amendment and gave me the right to assess the market values absolutely everywhere in the world, and so it should be in our country, if we consider ourselves part of the world, should be done simply by the relevant experts, because that is precisely the subject of skill and that is the task of their profession. This is why they exist and the very reason is that in such an amendment the amount of the conversion fee is determined, can be determined, by the authority of the local self-government unit, but only on the basis of what the expert of the relevant profession says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31987	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, please. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31988	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there is no further insistence on the adoption of the amendment, I believe the situation is very clear and I thank my colleague Markovic for showing it. We can agree that it makes sense to consider an additional opinion, perhaps in some situations that opinion is crucial, but we cannot form a proposal in such a way that it is insufficiently qualityd and then put it into the law. You've already heard spelling irregularities. Also, you had the opportunity to see, inaccuracy. The two artists, so if opinions, or how they are read, say counterpart Markovic, do not match the price set by more than 10%. One or both of them and 10% of what? At the very price or the two opinions already? You understand, this isn't well worked and it can't be accepted for that, and that's the only reason. Let's leave the generation of some forests, bombistic messages from big words aside, to deal with matter properly, as well as with the previous amendment that made me come forward. It should not be adopted for a simple reason – not good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31989	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31990	Of course. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I insist that the motionary explain to us whether he meant opinion or opinion. It's very important to state why, I think it's very important. There's both. Opinion is an opinion, and opinion, I know what opinion was, the opinion existed during the party of the former regime, while it ruled, whose member was the amendment's own. Most likely he was referring to the one whom he was fond of, so he became well-favoured. So, like, three sugars for three euros. That's why I insist that the amendment promoter say whether he meant opinion or opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31991	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31992	I think he's a injured member of 107, Mr. Chairman. You should react in these situations because this really loses meaning and it is a violation of common sense in the Serbian Parliament because the error in the typing of competent professional services of the Assembly is now highlighted as an error of opposition MPs and it has been debated, here, for ten minutes now and you have been watching it all silently and letting this nonsense continue in this way. Please respond and the debate will return to the frameworks of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31993	I thank you, Mr Stefanovic, although I would like you to react whenever such a situation occurs, and not just in specific cases when you think it's in your favor. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: You are responsible for reacting. Mr. Markovic, do you have something to throw me? Pick up the word, if you have anything to say. You won't let me say a sentence until the end so you can understand what reason I couldn't react. I would ask all the MPs again that when they speak, speak to the microphone because here, as the chairman, very often we cannot hear much of Mr. Risticevic's exposure, too, and I couldn't hear what Mr. Stefanovic said. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic called. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31994	Article 108(1), Mr. Chairman, I think he's been violated. The National Assembly consists of 250 MPs, but it also makes up a number of people who work hard, hard and responsibly within the secretariats, within the committees of the congregation, and to those worthy women who, when we finish the session, end up with this hall, wait for us the next day in a decent state, until security, to many other people who work hard and responsibly and more than we do in this National Assembly. It's bad when responsibility shifts to bad knocks on someone in the board's department. I would just like to ask a colleague who was advertised by the Rules of Procedure, but also by a colleague who wrote such amendments, I believe that it is a mistake, that it is not ignorance, I am sure that it is a mistake that can be lost and that can happen to anyone, it is happening to me and it will happen to me, and it is certainly, but it is unacceptable to transfer responsibility to people from the professional services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If we have a paper that was written and signed by Mr. Janko Veselinović, which clearly states Amendment No 2: "if these opinions are given" and "if those opinions are accepted" by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, then it is really unacceptable to say that the professional services of the Assembly have been wrong. One mistake, one failure, I'm sure it wasn't Mr. Veselinovic's intention to do it, but it's much worse if we transfer such mistakes to the professional services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are people who are really valuable and responsible for doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31995	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You are absolutely right when it comes to the professional services of the National Assembly and should never, in such a situation, say of them that they have made a mistake. I agree with you that the mistake was certainly not done on purpose. Mistakes are forgiven, only our chairman can't say goodbye, and everyone else can. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31996	I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure. He says - the president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, convenes its meetings, presides over them and does other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and then says, "Who is he replacing afterwards?" Mr. Chairman, you are not fit to hold meetings of the National Assembly in the Rules of Procedure. While the president of the National Assembly was here before you, we were talking about the law, about a very important law. You allowed this assembly to turn into a joke because of a grammatical error of officials, which I, of course, do not blame, because I signed it, but this official is employed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And you're allowing half an hour to talk about it instead of land conversion. You're incapable of doing your job. You're incompetent and you should let the president chair this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31997	I thank Mr. Veselinovic for what you said. I accept everything you've said. So I'm incapable of respecting the Rules of Procedure and punishing you for not talking about the agenda, and I'm also incapable of allowing MPs to speak. So once you decide whether I should allow the MPs to speak and speak about everything they think they should say and that, in this case, they point to mistakes that you, as MPs, make, or I don't have to do. Here I am in your case because of the warning you gave me that I was incapacitated, and from the moment that you are concerned I will strictly respect the Rules of Procedure, I will not allow you to do anything that is not in accordance with this Rules of Procedure at any time. (Janko Veselinović, from the scene: In my case? ) In your case and in the case of other MPs. And what you said now speaks more of you, Mr. Veselinović, than of me. Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. (Janko Vesenović, from town: You are incompetent. ) Mr. Veselinović, you do not have to throw away, act as culturally as the other MPs in this assembly. It is well - known who in this National Assembly has been convoking from the beginning with his conduct muddying and humiliating the reputation of the National Assembly. Very well known, Mr. Veselinovic. It is very well known to Mr. Veselinovic, as it goes from party to party, but it is again an honor to you and not to me, as chairman. ( Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: What does it matter now? ) I thank Mr. Veselinović. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31998	I would still like to return the debate to the agenda and discuss the amendments exclusively and approach the amendments with a special dose of seriousness, to analyse them in the way that the amendments really deserve, and the Rules of Procedure do. I must draw attention again, returning to my amendment, with, of course, reporting on the amendment of predecessors, Mr. Veselinovic, with an emphasis that cannot be doubted here. It wasn't just court practice that failed the institution of art in application, where the skills, let's say, in the law on enforcement and security, determines the value, whether immovableity, or the movable thing based on which it was sold. On the other hand, it is also in practice that what relates to the assessment by the tax administration, and we do not question it. I can understand if there wasn't an adequate amendment that would accept both solutions as two modes, but I have to draw attention to the fact that tax administrations are also engaged in the processes of tax authorities. Where tax authorities determine value, they consider so-called. Stimulating factors and take into account the so-called reduction factors or corrective factors, whatever. In a particular situation, if there really is an amendment that would be accepted either by skill or by virtue of what is supplied as tax administration parameters, we can contribute to the quality of this law, although from the point of view of the profession, from which I come, I will always represent the point of view that the value can be determined exclusively by an authorised assessor, or by a court expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u31999	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32000	Thank you. I would just like to add something, as my colleague Jovanovic has already made a good part of the reason why one of these amendments should be adopted, but not only to adopt, I am a personal attitude that should have taken a compromise solution between the amendments submitted by Mr Jovanovic and what text I absolutely agree with because we come from the same profession, but also part of the amendments tabled by counterpart Vesenovic. I must say, since the question of the assessment of the market value of the building land by the tax administration and on the other hand what I consider more acceptable, which is that the change is performed exclusively by the expert, I express my concern in this regard. If this solution remains in the form in which it is, and will remain unquestionably since the amendments have not been adopted on this article of the Law, I am expressing concern that if someone finds itself appropriate to ask the issue of constitutionality of such a proposed solution, and submits one constitutional appeal, and that constitutional appeal, for example, is adopted by the court, there will be a large number of applicants of constitutional appeals. At the end of the season, then the consequences of what the citizens were being extorted from will be borne only by the state and by having to pay huge costs. Again, I mention that something like this has already been the subject of debate when we discussed "Belgrade on Water" and I think that Minister Vujovic was in agreement with this, and Minister Selakovic was in agreement with this, respecting the fact that market value assessment can only be carried out by certain experts, because it is unquestionable and only such a solution will simply not impose the need to examine the assessment of constitutionality. So this can't just be viewed as some text of the law's provision, as something we're going to read, we have to look at this on the practical side, that is, the consequences that such a provision of the law will produce in everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32001	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32002	The Honorable Chairman, respected vice presidents, respected colleagues, respected citizens, with all due respect to the proposings and colleagues who gave their opinion, I consider as someone who is not a lawyer, but is an economist and judicial expert in the field of security at work that this amendment should not be accepted and for a very clear reason. If we consider that the tax authorities of local self-government units are sufficiently professional, simply the only authority that assesses the value of the property that is on the market, on the basis of which the decision on the payment of the sales tax is made, I do not see why, in a specific case, a land assessment which, in this case, the building land would have to be a judicial expert. If 99% of the contracts in which the real estate trade is concerned, i.e. changes in ownership, the tax authority shall carry out an assessment. Of course, he's professional enough, authorized enough to assess this building land that's covered by this bill. If the tax authority is not able, or is not professional enough, it will take into account that it works in accordance with the law, seek the help of professional experts and simply should not be treated by this bill. So simply this law, that is, this member must be accepted in this form and, of course, the amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32003	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32004	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an amendment that I think is very important especially from the aspect of legal certainty, and I have to say from the point of view of justice. To make our citizens clearer I'll read it is not long. Article 3 after Article 2 adds a new position 3 which reads – the amount of the right of use in the building land on which the right of ownership was acquired by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government in the process of expropriation is equal to the amount of compensation paid by the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province or units of local self-government in the expropriation process. What exactly is this about? We all know what an expropriation was. So expropriation, of course, was forced. The state has taken from citizens land out of certain interests and paid for it a certain price of expropriation. We are now in a situation where the state is charging a conversion fee. I guess the basic idea is that this fee can't be higher than the price the state has acquired, or that it has paid for the expropriation. I guess it's not the state's interest to do business and make money, but to actually help the construction industry in a certain, appropriate way. They repeat what's very important. So when it comes to expropriation, it wasn't a question of citizens' will. They had to hand over property for a certain amount of their property. I think it'd be fair if that fee wasn't bigger than it was back then. Of course, we're talking about the expropriation that took place 20, 30, 50 years ago doesn't matter, and then, of course, the land price was far less than today. In other words, the state would make a serious profit by charging the conversion in this way. I urge you, Minister, to accept this amendment especially given the reasons. I can read him, that the amendment is not accepted, because that case rarely occurs in practice. Therefore, there will be no major problem in applying this much earlier when it rarely occurs, and I think this amendment can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32005	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32006	By accepting the amendments to Article 7(4), we also accepted the cost of expropriation in obtaining the right to use, so that in an indirect manner we accepted what you are saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32007	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32008	Just a few sentences, Your Honor. We're not talking about the same thing. We say that, more clearly, we define ourselves by whether the state can take something into expropriation to sell at a more expensive price than it has paid, because then the state is just an intermediary and you are, as far as I understand you and in the opening exhibition the day before and today, talking about the state wanting to encourage the construction industry and not her interest in profit, but employment, new jobs, a better standard, and here you deny yourself. If that is the case and if you stand firm behind the views and sentences you have said, then you can freely accept this amendment, because this amendment only explains the attitude of the state to what it has received by expropriation, when it is released in further sales. So, she here as a mediator, as I understand you, is not going to make a dollar, but if you don't accept this, you leave the possibility that the state can change the zone or by different rankings, that incomparably, multiple increases in value and profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32009	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32010	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, on this amendment, reported to the citizens as we debated this law that with the state, not by their own free will, replaced the building land, and from the local self-government they received one building plot, and the other building land or their property was transferred to the property of local self-government. There was no enrollment in the Catastre, and they now have a problem. Their houses are located on state building land, although they have been replaced by, that is, taking away some of their plots, they have been granted the right to another plot. Now under this law, they will be in a position to pay for land even though it is a failure of the state, and in the catastro they do not want to ask for these contracts on the replacement of construction land at a time when local self-government changed that building land. So, over ten people reported, and I guess it could be in a lot of places, that the state, or local self-government, gave their property, their building land, and in return they took away their property, and they forgot to sign it off to the cataster, and now in the cataster when they're looking for data, they don't want to give them these contracts, and they can't possibly regulate it, and now they're going to be in a position to pay for construction land, even though their own, or theirs, for the property of local self-government. What does the Ministry think they're gonna do about it, given that the catastre is acting very strangely?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32011	He's got a word for it. Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32012	On the day of entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction, so on December 17th, all citizens have acquired the right of property and the cadastre does so on official duty. Therefore, this law does not apply to them, except for this group in Article 1. I mean, the Law on Conversion and exactly what groups the Law on Conversion refers to. As far as property rights are concerned, the citizens acquired it on December 17th, and the catastre works on official duty. So, he's making a record of property and he doesn't care about those 10 or whoever answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32013	He's got a word for it. Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32014	Dear Chairman, respected vice presidents, colleagues, respected citizens, I do not think this amendment is acceptable for any number of reasons. The basic reason is that, above all, a very small percentage of the construction land, which is the subject of this law, is acquired by expropriation, and what is even more important, is that the basic reper and the criterion, which will result in the conversion, i.e. the change of land from property rights, from the right to use property rights, is the basic reper is a market value and would have led by such an exception to the unfavourable position of those on land which is not obtained by expropriation, and clearly and in law itself it is said that the right to reduce market value, according to this law have units of local self-government depending on what status they are in, and that is quite enough reper for reduction, i.e. a measure, the expropriation was carried out 20 or 30 years ago, and then other market conditions were valid. What is defined by Article 3 is sufficient and must remain unchanged and I suggest that this amendment be not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32015	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32016	Thank you. Reverend Minister, I really thought you'd accept this amendment, because nothing important changes. Here you have explained that one of the basic principles of this law is the principle that the person referred to in Article 1(2) must be entered as the holder of the right to use in the public book of records and immovableity, and the rights on them and that is clear. But there are cases where legal followers have not entered their right of ownership in books in which they are recorded, immovableities, and they have proof that they bought this company and received some judgment, etc. I really don't see anything controversial about this amendment being accepted and leaving the possibility for all those persons who, for certain reasons, were unable to register or due to a small deadline, and maybe they almost bought a company or for some other reason, because in all other laws, it was possible for all those who had a relationship with the registered owner to achieve their rights in another way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32017	National MP Dr Obrad Isailovic submitted to the 4th amendment. He doesn't want a word. Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 4th amendment. He doesn't want a word. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32018	I thank the chairman. Therefore, the proposed amendment unequivocally specifies the intention of the legislator to submit a request to the city municipality in cases where the local self-government unit has several municipalities. It's like that in the spirit of the announced changes and the law of the capital, when we talk about such cases. Belgrade is an explicit example of all this. So this is another case of inaccuracy and insufficiently good definition of the provisions of the bill for the simple reason they can largely lead to the fear of corruption being much greater. On the Committee, we said, we intend to submit amendments in order to reduce the risk of corruption. There are so many mistakes and so many general places, so many undefined things, that it was just important that we show good will on our part, and on the other hand, and if all these amendments were adopted again, this law would have so many shortcomings that would lead to abuse. For this reason, I believe that this amendment is necessary, and on the other hand, and if it is adopted, it will not greatly change the situation we received a few days ago, which is that large capitalists, tycoons, owners of giant enterprises that robbed Serbia get free of charge in property of several hundred million euros, more precisely a billion and 492 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32019	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32020	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning, the applicant of this amendment every time, I repeat it and repeat it again and in the next period, whenever he says "corruption", he actually pronounces a deputy for the name of his party. I would avoid saying it, for the simple reason we know, and that is why we cannot accept this amendment, and not everything that this party offers, because in their time only corruption has reigned and progressed in our country. Is it possible for someone to say that the Serbian budget is going to divide into some of the tycoons that they created 1,400,000 euros? It's a replacement thesis. From this law in the next three years, Serbia will put 1,400,000 euros in its budget into the next distribution, which is – half goes to the Restitution Fund, or the Restitution Agency, and this other half goes to the budget, where we can develop our country, infrastructure and improve all of our social segments of our society for the better. When in an amendment from the representatives of one party who is also the applicant of this amendment, I see any change that says - city municipalities, believe me, I get chilly. Is it those city halls where the decentralisation of these municipalities was abolished during their rule and it's all completely centralized that we have now come into a situation to adopt a new law on the capital and to change the statutes, so that we can restore the authority to the municipalities. What is important to know is that you, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister and all the other MPs, are today accusing the Government or the Serbian Progressive Party of not being built, so I come from the territory of the Palilu municipality as an ordinary citizen, where and how Mr. Chairman is building, but completely illegal. Ninety-five facilities, 95% of the facilities were illegally built there, and I can tell you that, and someone called to sue me because I don't have any evidence. We can all leave here together, and if we find any paper for any building that was erected during Danil Bashic and today Stojan Nikolic, as authorities in the Palilula municipality, I can resign here. They don't need evidence for that, because it's an obvious and factual state, and it was done in your time, because now that you've moved in the citizens who came from the inside, because you've destroyed Serbia and they didn't have anywhere else to stay, so now you can't just tear those buildings down because you're making social cases. You have all served and today you offer the concept of the city municipality or decentralisation, etc. You had all the time in the world to do something for the city of Belgrade, to do something for our country, you did, but you didn't. (National MP Janko Veselinovic throws out of town. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32021	Mr. Veselinović, don't throw it away, let Mr. Jovicic finish the presentation. I'm asking you not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32022	But you didn't, if I could continue the chairman, because you had a bit of an obstacle to your work. You had a lot of work to do because you didn't even do the conversion the right way, you didn't even do the construction land fees because you cut them off. You did not deal with infrastructure because we have 34 to 45% of Belgrade's territory where there is no and there is no sewerage. You worked, the city was made of cardboard, underground containers, overpriced trams, etc. You've been doing this, we're changing everything from root to root, and we're not interested in your resistance at all because he's completely without any arguments and citizens recognize it. You've held a press conference just before where you say these laws serve some tycoons, etc. What tycoons? Give me one name and last name, or tycoon that was created during SNS, and I can name at least 50 that were created during your party and there's a huge difference. This law, which is of great importance to finally settle something in our country when we talk about building land and property rights, certainly brings only profits and benefits for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and there is a fundamental difference between you and us, a fundamental difference and it can never be the same. So once again, please and repeat, do not say the word "corruption" because it is certainly a substitute for your party's name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32023	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic and MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you are. The word has a folk MP, Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32024	I thank the chairman. Namely, members of 6. The draft law on the conversion of the right of use to property on the building land for compensation provides for specific cases in which the right to conversion cannot be exercised, or where the provisions of this law are not applied. In this place, I must read part of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court, which is a member of Article 103(1). The law on planning and building declared unconstitutional, which and how it relates to the provision in fact to a member of the law to which I have submitted the amendment and where I have provided for the erasure of the views of the 2nd and 3rd members of this disputed member, in fact the most controversial member of this bill. In fact, part of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision is that the power of the legislator to prescribe the conditions for the conversion of the right to use on the building land in the right of property, covers according to the Court's understanding and the authority to prescribe certain advantages for that conversion. In view of the above, the Constitutional Court finds that by prescribing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, the disputed advantage in calculating the amount of land conversion fee has highlighted one interest in granting this benefit to the land-free holders, which is based on the general assessment that the adoption of this law should create a basis, among other things, for extending the circle of a person who can exercise the right to convert property rights without compensation, and that is the essence of what I want to point out, which enables the construction land to be built in accordance with the design document and at the same time contributes to rational use of construction land. However, the freedom of the legislator to establish the existence of public interest, to grant benefits in the calculation of the level of compensation for the conversion of rights of use on building land does not mean that the State may, on the basis of its free assessment, pass a law at its own discretion, which would willingly prescribe those benefits, but is already a legislator limited by the Constitution, etc., is stated in the Constitutional Court’s decision of 2013 which unconstitutionally declared Article 103(1). The law on planning and construction. I have provided for this amendment to delete Articles 2 and 3 for the following reasons, attitudes 2 and 3, because they are proposed as they are nothing but constitutional. A fully established question of their constitutionality can be asked, and if the issue of their constitutionality were asked, would they be advertised unconstitutional? Aamandman didn't accept it, he was already rejected. It's essentially the following. In disguised form, as I said, therefore, in a completely disguised form, in this way, in the way that it is formulated, in fact, is just introducing the possibility for the customers of the privatisation company to acquire the right to construction land without compensation, which is precisely the subject of the Constitutional Court's evaluation, whose part of the reasoning I have read. In fact, the point here is that the same option is provided for all companies that were purchased before the entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction, that the purchasers of the privatisation companies, when they pay as a conversion fee, have the right to refuse from the value of the land the paid value of the property in privatisation and such a solution is nothing but unconstitutional, and this unconstitutional solution actually remains in the present proposed provision of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32025	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32026	I thank you, Chairman. I would like to present just one additional expert assessment of the whole analysis carried out by the distinguished colleague Batic. This is not only about privatization entities in general terms, but it's about privatisation entities in restructuring that would be particularly favoured in this way, and why are they granted? Because it is known that according to the provisions of the Privatisation Act, they are exempt from enforcement, i.e. those as executive debtors do not have to settle their obligations, because the law freed them, not to mention abolized those obligations, and on the other hand, they can acquire immovable property that binds themselves precisely to the way they are acquired under Article 6 which implies the possibility of obtaining without compensation. This means that in this situation those who do not meet their obligations over a longer period of time, I will mention only FAP from Priboj, a 20-year restructuring process would take place. In 20 years, this company has taken at least 100 companies to economic death and who knows how many thousands of people have lost their jobs. Is it possible to figuratively assume, hypothetically, that this company in restructuring comes to an asset in a way that implies a kind of advantage that the Constitutional Court truly considers not to be accepted as constitutional. Therefore, just to consider whether this Article 6, which is proposed in the authentic text, allows for the possibility of such occurrences as may be present in practice, or possibly by means of a different formulation of this article, to prevent the adverse consequences that can occur in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32027	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Balša Bozovic, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32028	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here is a simple and simple question, given that we have proposed erasing Article 6 for the simple reason that we do not think that there is any reason for those who bought enterprises, i.e. property over objects with a belonging right of use on the surrounding land to be free of charge to land in property. They only bought the facilities, they didn't buy the land. For this reason, the Constitutional Court did not repeal the law in 2013 and assessed it as unconstitutional, but as members of the Planning and Construction Act concerning discount conversions. There is no discount and I hold the Constitutional Court's decision, let alone that someone gets a full free free of charge of land that will give them millions and millions of euros, where the company's business will change, where and where the workers have been fired, and now they will be able to build hundreds of thousands of squares there. We don't mind building, getting along. We are opposed to allowing them to be free owners of the country. Here, as in all other members, it is possible either to get free or to close the lease, which is again something that makes you avoid paying the conversion with a fee. We think for that reason this is an unconstitutional decision. Personally as a MP, I will file a constitutional appeal, because I believe this is something that is not in the country's best interests. This is a betrayal of state and people's interests in the Republic of Serbia. We must not allow this member and Article 8 to pass for the reasons that they give a billion and 492 million. It's money and property of the Republic of Serbia, it's worth so much land. That's what the bill itself says. If we agree with this bill, it's a huge price, a billion and 492 million. Imagine how much it could have been restored from the floods, everything that was brought down in the floods. Now we'd already have a complete restoration, and we wouldn't have to extend it until the end of the year. Imagine what we can do with all that money. Here, the prime minister announced a reform of the education and health system in 2016. It's a little strange that we've only waited four years for such a thing, but here, when he's already remembered, we have a billion and 492 million to reform health and education. He says the bill says we're going to make so much money, and then yesterday, Minister Mihajlovic says -- we're going to raise about 650 million. Well, is it a billion and 492 million or 650 million or, as the President of the American Chamber of Commerce says, not a single euro? The various chambers are thanked by the minister for allowing for free conversion or bypassing over-rent payments for 99 years. In 2013, you changed the property tax law, so no more property tax is paid when it comes to renting land. And that's where you made it possible for the tycoons not to pay property tax. We believe this is something that does not represent the interest of any Serbian citizen. You can pass the law, that's what we talked about when it came to lex septicalis, whatever you want. You can bring that the ground is a flat plate. Serbia is sold for nothing. You can kill as much as you want and deny it. You will be remembered...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32029	Mr Bozovic, just so I'm not called by one of the MPs who called me earlier, I'm asking you to come back and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32030	I'm just talking about the amendment, because this amendment is the 6th amendment that we propose to delete is essential. He gives property to the Republic of Serbia to the tycoons, for zero dinars or zero euros. Why don't the citizens get something for free? They get an increase in electricity prices and reduced wages and pensions and higher VAT. Please don't be nervous, because it is the Constitutional Court's decision and we will fight for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for the respect of the Constitution and the law, for the interests of the people and the state. We believe, as I know, that every member of the board on which I was present today knows, and even some of your MPs, and even some of your coalition partners spoke of the unconstitutional nature of these members of the law. They also spoke in the debate in principle today when it comes to amendments and you know that it is not under the Constitution, and you know that the Constitution will challenge this, but apparently some old debts are coming back this way, and debt is not a friend. I think you should put out of force these members who are controversial, because otherwise you will be remembered as the ruling majority who sold Serbia to the tycoons for zero dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32031	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32032	I'm just surprised what you've told me in such a short time. Unfortunately, we all remember very well and will remain remembered DS that it first took away our hope in 2000 that it could be better in Serbia, and then after 2000, then further, until 2012, very responsible for, say, 400,000 people lost their jobs in just four years. My question, that is, is my dilemma – how much could it have been built and done since 2009, when you passed a law that had a large number of provisions and was declared unconstitutional? Imagine that they were not declared unconstitutional, how much could have been built and how many people could have been employed? So we do this law to fix the mistakes that you made, and we do it for one reason only, for one reason only, to build and work in Serbia. At just one hectare, if it starts to work, the construction industry will generate about 3.5m euros. Not to mention what would mean for the state and the citizens of Serbia, to be employed and to have a job. When you talk about the amount to be earned, because somehow it seems to me that with accounting, accounting, whatever, something is not best, what are incomes, what are expenditures, what is going into the budget or coming out of the budget, it means, 1.4 billion euros should be made out of compensation, of which 631 million goes to the Restitution Fund, the rest goes to the budget of Serbia, the province or local self-government. That's an explanation, how correct I could have been without answering the insults you've been saying to this government. I really don't think the results in a year can be compared to what you have left Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32033	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I wasn't at that moment when I gave my word to the Deputy Prime Minister. I knew you were answering for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 107: "The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, no direct address is allowed’, etc. "to another MP and to use offensive expressions." If someone says we sold the tycoons to Serbia, it's an insult my previous colleague was not punished for. But I'm not asking him to be punished. Someone who says his MP group asked for a member to be deleted doesn't deserve a sentence because he asked for a member to be deleted. Why do I say that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated? It is unacceptable, for me, that those who sold three sugars per three euros in this way insult the dignity of the National Assembly. It is unacceptable that an MP from the electoral list of parties who sold Seceran for three euros in Bac, although she had sevenm-euro sugar supplies, so if this happened and if the tycoon was the party's director, the financial director of the party on whose list he was elected, is a great insult, an unmistakable insult when such an MP sends insult to other MPs and says that they sold Serbia to tycoons, although it is unequivocally seen that the MP, or his electoral list, or financial director of that party, is the tycoon they sold three-euro sugars to, to whom they sold the building "Usce", where five hectares of construction land of 30m euros went. When such an MP, from that election list, tells other MPs, who are not responsible for anything, that they have sold Serbia to tycoons, it is a great insult and I ask you, Mr. Chairman, that in the future you take care when we meet with so much insult in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32035	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, it is my duty to explain. You are right, we, as chairman, must not allow the MPs to be offended, but, on the other hand, we as chairman, regardless of what some MPs have asked us to do today, cannot censor the presentations and the speeches of the MPs. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32036	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, there's a saying that says, "Who's lying, who's stealing?" I'm not talking about anyone in person here, but you can't say that building land or any land in Serbia is given free of charge. It doesn't say anything, and I don't know how it's the applicant of the amendment or the other MPs, how could they read it? There's a reduction in the fee. This is also defined in certain parts, that there is a reduction of compensation for the category of municipalities in undeveloped status, where there is insufficient development, enough money, etc., to come into contact. On the other hand, it's always been said that Serbia is sold to tycoons. Gentlemen, the power of the party who submitted this amendment did not sell Serbia to tycoons, but gave it away. She gave Serbia to the tycoons. You made all the tycoons, you gave them land to use for free, and now you're showing up under some veil of innocence here fighting for the Constitution, etc. We saw how you fought for the Constitution, when your judiciary fell, when you talked about judicial judgments, etc., about the Constitution, and the Law of Planning and Construction, which contained the section of the conversion, everything fell to you because nothing coincided with the Constitution and did not follow the Constitution. Now all of a sudden we see a great desire to stick to the Constitution. On the other hand, you are obviously reading the laws and following government and party officials' statements. You say 650 million, and you promise a billion and 400 million. Half of it is 650 million, or slightly less than half, which goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the other part goes to the Restitution Fund, or the Restitution Agency. You just have to read more carefully. It's not just about getting up and saying something, but behind what you say you're standing there and being well-intentioned about what you're talking about. You're saying by this law we pay back someone's debts. Right, but not with this law. We have been paying back your debts for two years, your gambling debts that you have made and burdened the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for two years. You have left us with the biggest deficit in Europe, a completely destroyed economy, robbery privatisation, poored population, 400,000 people without a job, you have removed or eliminated hope for a young world and a young population, that is, our generation, and now it is the easiest thing to get up and criticize something that has only one goal, which is that in Serbia we finally establish a system, a system in our institutions, but to make one new picture, a picture of reconciliation in the whole region, and to work together and build in the future on the whole Balkans, and that is the Serbian Progressive Party. You say the pensions and wages were cut, and that's what the citizens got for free. No, they're not. You put a lot of money in your pockets to make it necessary for them today, painfully, but we were forced to do it, cut wages and pensions. You think that's easy for us? Unlike those of you who took loans and increased unfounded without any economic foundation of wages and pensions, you did not follow the economy, you did not follow anything, we are slowly recovering our economy today. What we can say with certainty is that for the next two, three years we can have a stable macroeconomic situation in Serbia, and this will then reflect on small and medium-sized enterprises, it will give young businesses a chance to finally develop their business in our country. You're the one who cut it all off. So I repeat, you have no right to mention corruption. It's a substitute for your party's name, and don't let God mention crime, because it certainly is an adjective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32037	Mr Bozovicu, you are entitled to a two-minute replica for mentioning the party's name as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32038	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps a democratic party, when it had the chance, didn't do much. Maybe for you bridges, three bridges in five years and boulevards and hospitals aren't much. Perhaps roads and schools, factories in Serbia are not much. I'll leave it to the citizens to judge, since they've welcomed you today incomparably better, obviously. When it comes to hope, that's what this was about. The citizens of 2000 did not lose hope. You've lost hope. You wanted to live better. After this law, you and your partners will live better, and the people will live much worse. Only you in power today, in your chair, live better, no one else. The people are getting poorer. Prices are increasing. So, you have a situation where you have electricity collection, reduced wages and pensions, you have an increased VAT. You've got bigger property taxes. The people can't survive while you here give a few of the 0.1% in Serbia the land's property of a billion 492m euros. So you can punish me with a hundred salaries, this law is written in the interest of "Luke Belgrade" and Milan Beck and you can punish me indefinitely, this is a fact and you know it and I know that you know it and the citizens know that you know it. That's why I think he's a member of 84. The constitution broke because individuals, which is a few, puts them in a position of privilege when it comes to the Serbian market. You're breaking the Constitution, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32039	Time. The Republic has the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic, and Mr Jovičić has the National MP Susana Spasojevic. Please, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why the replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32040	Well, you mentioned the roads among other things. So, when the SNS came to power, the Serbian citizens' roads that you left us were at the level of security as the most insecure roads in Europe. So, we have the safest roads in Europe in 2012 when we have been participating in power and you have left it in the amanet, and because of these insecure roads, there is a very high degree of car accidents and deaths, first of all, young people, and that is the hope that you have destroyed among other things. The second thing, bridges when you mention it, every bridge you've built four times is more expensive than the average price of the bridge. So the 400,000 people you left out of work for four years are also lost hope. Hundreds of thousands of young people who left Serbia during the time you were in power are lost hope and you are responsible and I am glad that you are not in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32041	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32042	Dear Mr. President of Parliament, I call on a member of 108 who says that you are taking care of the order at the National Assembly session and I must draw your attention that you have not had the same archaics and the same approach to the MPs for months. I asked why the Deputy Prime Minister was entitled to a replica, you also said Mr. Jovicic would be entitled to a replica, in her reply she says – because Mr. Balsa Bozovic mentioned the roads. For months we can't get the right to respond to the very serious accusations that have been made here against us individually or as members of a particular party, and now we hear an argument that someone here can get a replica because of the paths mentioned and you don't react. That is why I am fully convinced that you are putting your relationship and behavior here in a very bad position of the opposition and I think that in the next part of the session you must pay attention to that we have the same approach. The theme is very important and we're looking for the same relationship with everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32043	I thank Mr. Markovic, but when you turn around and when you give me a review, you should tell the truth. The moment Mr Bozovic had the opportunity for replication, he got and just spoke now preferably as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group because at one point, not even in a negative context, the minister mentioned DS and Mr Bozovic was entitled to replication. So it's the same archin as Mr Bozovic in his speech, not a negative context, mentioned the minister and addressed her personally. For this reason, Ms. Minister has received a replica, right to a two-minute replica, because she has the right as Mr. Bozovic had the right to defend himself and to say what he should have said in two minutes. That's how the Minister has the same right. As for Mr. Jovicic, at no point did I say that he would get the replica and that's where you told the lie. I just said that the others who applied to discuss go in order – Mr. Jovičić, Mrs. Spasojevic, so Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, so Dr. Vladimir Orlic, etc. So when you're in my way, I'm asking you next time to tell me the truth. Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Jovicic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32044	Thank you, Your Honor. You've really explained this thoroughly. Obviously, our colleagues don't read enough Rules of Procedure, so that you can contact the amendment several times, you can talk about it, etc. This amendment, of course, cannot be accepted, but what is really worrying is that an opportunity for the interpretation of the amendments and those who make them are said to be quite false. I will try a dying tone to bring just a few facts to the citizens of Serbia and our dear pensioners who are having a hard time living and we are all aware of that. Namely, in explaining the amendments or in replicas, someone remembered to mention that something was being built. Chairman, I can say that something has been built. For example, the reconstructed Bulevar of King Alexander, but the only thing that is controversial in the whole situation is that it is overrated by six million euros and today someone is responding for it. Six million euros if we multiply by course, i.e. times 121, and we share with the average pension in Serbia that is 24,000 pensions in our country. It is an essential that must be explained and presented to Serbian citizens. It's just a boulevard. Bridges. We want dozens, hundreds of bridges. However, none of the bridges leading from one side of the coast to the other and hitting the hill because we need five times more money to make a tunnel to make it functional is approximately by all analyses, what information we can get off the record, more expensive for about 150m euros. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know and our respected pensioners who once built it at a much cheaper price, someone has abolished 600,000 pensions at 150m euros based on this difference. In one month, 600,000 people didn't get an average pension because someone put it in their pocket and there's a big difference. It's just two examples. By nightfall, I can talk about corruption affairs that have shaken our country. The bridge on Beška, I'm sure it's all clear. I'm sure it's all clear. Of course not. This is proof of where the money went from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Regional Government, local self-government and everything you managed in your time of government. You left the empty house, you took everything, you took the windows, you destroyed everything, and now you answer and you say, "We are the saviors who bring prosperity." There was someone here, an MP, I forgot his name, I can't remember, he said – you can punish me a hundred times and take me a hundred salaries. I'm convinced it wouldn't touch him. I am convinced that it would not touch him in terms of financial and economic power and life, and that is no problem at all, but that set of emotions that this MP shows to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how worried he is that people live we did not see during their period of power. We haven't seen them present concrete programs and wish well to our fellow citizens. We didn't see that. As long as you're so brave, when you're so brave and with so much energy, you say you're not afraid of anything, how powerful you are, how strong you are, gentlemen, to call the election in Vojvodina. Here, we can do that in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32045	Please, Mr. Jovicic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32046	Of course, it's about the amendment. Let us, Mr. Chairman, so far, be put on our knees, we have nothing against it. When they're so brave, we're in front of such a force called DS, we're really scared. I'm shaking right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32047	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jovan Markovic. (Gordana Comic, from the post: Everything was according to the amendment, everything Jovicic said. ) Please, Mrs. Comic, don't throw it away. If you want to talk, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32048	Dear Chairman, I call upon a member of 106 who says that you are responsible for the speaker being directed to speak according to the agenda. I think that the continuation of your mismanagement of the session today is obvious and how you favor speakers and MPs of the ruling coalition is really not appropriate. Six minutes before the speaker talks about things that are not in any way related to today's agenda and you allow it. You're the one who knows which time today you made it possible not to talk about a subject that is very important and a law that is very important. The previous speaker, I don't think he's read the article 6 that we're talking about, and our proposal to delete St. 2 and 3 has not read the law. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: You haven't even read the title.) ) Now you allow Mr. Babic to interrupt me again, throws away very tastelessly and inappropriately and as if you do not hear what it is and as if you do not hear the way he debates in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32049	Please, allow me, I listen very carefully to Mr. Markovic, please allow him to finish Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32050	You will, of course, allow it to go on like this, you will allow this session to turn into a joke and you will allow us to hear again today a series of accusations that have nothing to do with this law or amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32051	Mr. Markovic, I'd like to ask you again to tell the truth. I'll give you Mr. Bozovic's steno-scriptive speech, where he doesn't talk about the amendment he submitted from the announcement. But I allow you, as an authorised representative of your parliamentary group, to speak in the manner in which you explain the amendments. You now wish, as Mr Veselinović wanted just now, that when something does not suit you in the speeches of the MPs, I censor it. I can't, I can't interrupt the MPs on every other sentence, except when the MPs are insulted, when the dignity of the National Assembly is destroyed. Don't expect me to censor the speeches of the MPs. Like I'm not doing it, and I haven't done it before, Mr. Bozovic, and I've let your colleague Balša Bozovic talk about everything and everything, about all sorts of accusations, about a lot of things, and I just didn't think I should react to it. I even warned Mr. Jovicic to return to the amendment. So please, when you're talking, you're telling the truth. You who are an MP who keeps throwing away, deny someone the right to speak. Please don't. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? Yeah. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: So Jovicic was talking about the amendment? ) I warned Mr. Jovičić, unlike Mr. Bozovic, whom I did not warn, who did not speak according to the amendment. Please, Mrs. Comic, if you have anything to say, come in. I said he was talking about the amendment. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32052	Dear Chairman, thank you. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, the proposed amendment is absolutely unacceptable, and what we have heard so far is simply an auto projection that causes a really sad taste. When we talk about reduced salaries and pensions, we cannot say that these are consequences, consequences, and I have repeatedly said in my presentations that a group of MPs is very manipulatively capable of bringing the Assembly into one of these conditions, that their speeches challenge the simple replicas of this guy that we now have. So I would ask you to go back on the subject, to carefully consider this law, to accept good amendments and not waste time, and we know clearly, the citizens have decided, they have not given you confidence. Give them a chance in Vojvodina, see what you do there. Will you be trusted there for bridges that cost three in one, for boulevards that cost five in one? So please get serious, let's have a constructive discussion, to make life easier for our citizens too, to make it easier for future investors to get better conditions for work without regretting what you haven't used.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32053	Mrs. Rakonjac, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32054	I'm going back to the amendment, here's the thing. Your time has run out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32055	Don't do what the members of another party do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32056	Let me finish, please. You haven't used it, your time has run out, to make a conversion, a tycoon land conversion in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32057	Thank you. Again according to the Rules of Procedure, Master Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32058	The Honorable Chairman, re-Article 106. I really don't know how you expect your colleague to get back on the subject and the amendment when she wasn't even on the amendment and on the subject. I have already warned you several times that your behaviour, your approach and your attitude towards non-equal MPs is precisely what leads to this kind of debate. We are only only on Articles 6 and 6 of our fellow Members and other MPs, and I should draw attention to the proposal to delete this article's 2rd and 3rd position, that's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32059	Mr Markovic, if you respect your colleagues, allow them in their words to express why they disagree that the amendment should be accepted, where it is said, by eradicating Article 6 which the promoters have made in the amendment. Allow colleagues to try to explain why they feel that this amendment should not be accepted, which requires the removal of Article 6. I know you must react to the mention of your president. Answer, no one is defending you, but do not deny the right of the MPs to explain why they do not agree with the amendments submitted. Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: When it comes to Pajtic, there are different reactions. Well, that depends on the current. Thank you. Mr. Orlic, would you like a word? The word has the People's MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32060	Thank you very much, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will report, I am sure, a good conclusion, on my position on the subject of this amendment on the basis of my views on those arguments or on what should already be represented by what we have heard as reasons for support in this amendment. The argument is that there's something unconstitutional here, that it's not clear whether the income is 1.4 billion or 600 million, that something is given into depravity. Let's take it in a row. We've been meeting here all the time, ever since this debate, with an estimate that there's something unconstitutional, but we can't hear clearly and precisely why and what exactly. We hear a global rating -- it's unconstitutional that any kind of relief is predicted. To God, one solution had already fallen because it was supported by some reliefs, for God's sake, the Constitutional Court said that no reliefs were considered. Once again, it's not true. We've had a situation like this at the beginning of today's debate, it seems to me, according to the first amendment. She started with something that needs to be an argument, and it turns out to be completely untrue. I have before me a decision of the Constitutional Court and in that decision, among other things, the question is whether or not it can be included in the solution of any mechanism that will make it easier. What does the Constitutional Court say about that? It has to be a market valuation, which is the main basis for assessing the situation when it comes to compensation. This was not respected in that previous solution that fell. That was the main problem. What else does he say? He seems to understand that the legislator has the authority to prescribe certain benefits for the above mentioned conversion. Wow, so the benefits aren't forbidden. So, if someone here was a problem, the problem has obviously arisen from some misunderstanding or understanding, but with a conscious desire to ignore what is clear and to generate the problem with noise. I don't know what's up with those two things. Come on, I'm going to well-intentioned that someone simply doesn't understand the situation, or what he wanted to say, or what he wanted to explain to him, but about this, to be clear, the relief in itself is not disputed from the aspect of the Constitutional Court. What is it? The basis for the fee. It was very precise there - the basis for compensation must be market value. Let's take a look at this proposal. Is there market value here as a basis? There is, in Article 2 black on white, short, simple and understandable statement. Is that already in itself saying that there is a big difference between this situation and the situation that the Constitutional Court has challenged? Of course he does. It won't insist on it - I'll repeat it a hundred times if this is to be unconstitutional, you can't do anything to me, it won't bring any extra security in those words that are spoken, it won't contribute to any persuasion of what's said. It's just insistence on the wrong one, nothing more. Let's move on. Whether it's 1.4 billion or 600 million, it's not clear to someone. There's nothing to be clear about. We've heard enough times and when the debate started in principle, and we heard it today. Now, if someone isn't sure if he heard right, if he understood correctly, we have this material that we got and that follows the law, page 17, that's where we meet that 1.4 billion figure. What's he saying? That's the estimated value of that land we're talking about. It's nice here -- based on the estimated area, based on the average day, average at this point, that's the estimated value. So it's not some value that's that much, and when the law is applied, there's nothing left of it. You have a very well-respected evaluation here. When the law is applied and the relief is applied, a billion and 260 million are estimated to be made. I guess this is as clear as day. That 630 comes 50% of the billion and 260. Half of the Republic's budget, or autonomous province, or local self-government, and half of it in this other fund, which we talk about a lot these days. There's a clear math, and there's nothing to be incomprehensible. You know where 630 comes from. Once again, that's the estimated value, when all the relief mechanisms are included. And what are these reliefs for? We'll say a few words about that, too. A third argument, or call an argument, that something is given by this law for nothing. And the word patriotism and patriotism we heard today. Well, I really can't resist this time, but who it's from, too. Let's go back to that Constitutional Court decision. I've heard a few times these days that on the other side of the hall comes a voice--it was a punishment for our mistake, we then suggested something bad. So no one here is disputed who then proposed a solution that the Constitutional Court disputed. You see now, I read from that decision what was then given as an explanation for this legal solution, what is he who then proposed that law, which was before the Constitutional Court, said why he was bringing it. I quote - that this law should create a condition, among other things, for extending the circle of persons who can exercise the right to convert rights of use into property rights without compensation. Wow, the one who brought it himself said he was doing it to expand the circle of those who would get something for free. Now that someone yells – why is it given for free? Comedian detail number one, and I'll skip two. But if it wasn't for shamelessness, there's only one simple thing to say. Is there a receipt here, and if you see a payment, do you see any income? Well, of course you can see it. This question, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of simple balance, a balance between two extremes. Either you go completely free, or you go so you make as much money as you can. I'm sure each of us here can come up with at least one good reason for one and the other. Here, just to remind ourselves, and we talked about it, the environment did everything to make it absolutely free and it has its own justification. Again, on the other hand, each of us can imagine at least one good reason why it takes as much to earn a republic or an autonomous province or a local self-government. And what's the point? To find some good balance between, so that income is realized where the titled Republic, an autonomous province, local self-government, and yet on the other hand to encourage the process, to get people into this conversion process, that this land, which unfortunately does not bring anything, activates and benefit everyone from it. We, on our part, take care of the benefits of our society, hence the Republic, the autonomous province, the local self - government. So this is some sort of solution in between. Everything you can see in this law stems from that principle, to find a good balance. That it's free, it's not. Anything else? So, once again, if we're going to hear again today insisting on the story of unconstitutional 1.4 billion, it's not hard for me to say all this again, but tell me how seriously we're going to act if we have to do this to each other again? Once again, the principle of repeating completely incorrect things is not proved, only, unfortunately, is persistently wrong, and you can tell yourself if we need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32061	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32062	Thank you. Support for the amendment submitted by counterpart Balša Bozovic and counterpart Olgica Batic, because erasing Articles 2 and 3 in Article 6 is necessary precisely because it introduces what is disputed in the Constitutional Court's decision. Whoever wants to read these two positions, it will be clear that it is the persons who are exempt, which is considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and in the second position it is said that the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction in the work relating to the conversion of the right of use into property rights on building land without compensation for those persons. No fee means no money. Any attempt to explain the constitutionality of these two positions is in vain, which I hope will also confirm the Constitutional Court's decision after we apply for an assessment of the constitutionality, calling not for stubbornness in this debate, completely unnecessary, because eradicating these views helps the law, but for the decision of the Constitutional Court that it has in its archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32063	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32064	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must agree, of course, with the presentation of my colleague Komic in this place, but, of course, with the presentation of Mr Jovanovic. It is mentioned here that someone does not know that they interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is absolutely unacceptable and inappropriate, because the one who owns that Constitutional Court decision should not only read it, but should just interpret it. Also, it should not only be called to the part of the reasoning that stands in that constitutional decision, made by the Constitutional Court, but then, if we are to be completely honest and speak the whole truth here, then it is necessary to read the nice and dissident of such a decision. In order not to repeat myself, given all that I have stated, and I said this would be unconstitutional, I am quite sure of that, in the Constitutional Court Decision, published in "The Official Messenger", the following is said (I am not reading the explanation, but reading the positive decisions) - It is determined that the provision of Article 103, paragraph 1. The Law on Planning and Construction, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", not to list all numbers, means an integral text with all other subsequent amendments and additions to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, in the part which reads – the costs of obtaining the right to use the building land include, within the meaning of this law, the total amount of the revolving capital price paid in the privatisation process, i.e. the total revaluation price paid for the property or part of the property of a company or of another legal person in a bankruptcy or executive procedure, as well as other actual costs, is not in agreement with the Constitution. Article 2 — Requests for the establishment of the non-constitutional provisions of Articles 105 and 106 shall be rejected. The law referred to in point 1. Three — The measure shall be suspended by the execution of an individual act or action taken under the provisions of Article 103(1) and Articles 105 and 106. Laws and Points 1. This is a disposition of the above-mentioned decision. The explanation is extensive, it can always be executed, and it can also be read. What's the point? I'll do it again. In this way, the provision in this bill is the essence of such a provision as to the essence of a decision declared unconstitutional. So read the discipline first, and read the arguments. Do not blame someone here not to know or to interpret in the wrong way, especially people who come from the field of justice and know how to interpret, because they make very good proposals for the assessment of constitutionality, but also very often their constitutional complaints are adopted, etc. Here, in a hidden way, such a legal provision hides the essence that has been declared unconstitutional. That's what it's all about. Ask whoever you want, ask the Constitutional Court judges and they'll tell you the same thing. If an assessment of the constitutionality of this provision is asked, I am not sure it will refuse, but I am sure it will be adopted as unconstitutional. So, what do we do? Then we'll get back to the situation where we meet here again, that the legislator hasn't done his part of the job right again, which is stated in the explanation of a decision like this, so let's re-change and approach some changes and additions. I don't think things should be done superficially. If we already have the opportunity to adopt the bill in a more acceptable form, with more efficient solutions, I think we should do it right now and we should do it now, not in some later period, when we remember that we might have been able to, but then we didn't, because some didn't know they were interpreting constitutional provisions. In fact, it will turn out that they knew that they were interpreting and how well, that we were coming back into the situation to find ourselves here and say, well, that provision was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court's decision, let's now approach the amendments and additions of this law, which I'm sure again, of course, will adopt. But I appeal once again, look, read how dissociative, so eloquent of the Constitutional Court's decision. Look again, in your integral text, and the Law on Planning and Construction and all later amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. Read it. It is not enough just to read a member, this controversial member of the bill, but to understand its essence, and the essence is nothing more than the constitutional and its essence, but also the explanation of this minority of an identical member we have here before us is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32065	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32066	When it comes to the amendment to Article 6, the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the Turnover Movement, concerns the possibility that this law, the prominent Deputy Prime Minister, may be exempt from the land over which the expropriation was made, and then put to use. Which is why, I don't think there's any need to explain. So the state has declared public interest. After that, a natural or legal person was given the land for use. I don't think it's fair that something declared public interest becomes private property. Here's a reason why the amendment wasn't accepted by your Ministry. Because this case rarely occurs in practice. Mrs. Mihajlovic, this is no reason. If something rarely occurs in practice, it does not mean that it cannot be socially harmful, and laws are passed to prevent socially harmful phenomena that threaten the legal system, or social order. Even "Belgrade on Water" rarely appears in practice, once in a hundred years, but it is very socially harmful and needs to prevent cases similar to "Belgrade on Water", because we do not know what exists in the archives and who will seek conversion into private property of something that was once exploited in the public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32067	Time. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. You think Mr. Markovic called before you did? You've been in the system before Mr. Markovic, but if that's what you want, go ahead. National MP Aleksandar Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32068	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted, therefore, amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law, from the very reasons you read yourself. Among other things, it would be unserious to accept this amendment, and this explanation of the amendments proposed by the respected, I will remind you, Doctor of legal science. And why is that? Because, in the light of this amendment, it states: "exposed". I'm really sorry that I have a whole day to make amends, but I can't get over it. So it says "exposed", not "exploded". "Exproved" has its meaning, "exposed" means nothing. What's that look like? This isn't the first time today. This is who knows what a significant mistake this morning. Now we just don't know if you're going to blame yourself again for your professional service. Well, you can't blame yourself on professional service. And why is that? In front of me is a letter sent to the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly, with a series of amendments and an explanation of these amendments, signed by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, on the side which is falsely represented, and writes here "The Movement for Turning", instead of putting on an independent MP, but it is not important now. I suggest that this amendment be rejected. I hope we reject him in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32069	The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, then Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32070	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, this amendment has been rejected and I think that this argument regarding some spelling errors that occurred during the work is just an attempt to distract the public and that the whole thing is banalizing, and it's a very serious matter. The essence of this amendment is that the country that was exploded cannot be the subject of conversion. Then you say – it rarely happens in practice. But it happens on a very important case such as "Belgrade on Water". We held here a debate on whether or not it should be or not, and unfortunately, the majority decided that it should and that it could take away the country from the citizens of Serbia, private property, in order to build on it not objects of public purpose, roads, infrastructure, schools, kindergarten, social housing, what is provided for by law, but for a private project, where the investor, in this case, known in advance, will be determined not on the basis of some tender and on the basis of what the best offer was made, but on the basis of the signing of an interstate agreement, will invest 3.5 billion, and where the Republic of Serbia will earn not know how many billions. In ten years, we listened when the debate was, then when the contract was signed, we saw that it was a 30-year deadline and that it would be done for generations and no momentum for the Serbian construction industry would be. That's why it's important what you claimed at the time, that this is not putting citizens in an unequal position, but they have no right, they have no right to choose whether or not they will or will not sell their property. To them, the state has taken away property, will pay them some price, and then it will sell the land, in perspective, i.e. the possibility remains that, if this amendment is not adopted, the land will be sold and the state will make a profit instead of those citizens. We said it was unconstitutional, that public interest couldn't be established for one such project. We believe that such an amendment must exist in this law, that it is known that the state cannot take away his property, and then sell it to another, so that it is either that one or that the state itself earns, because it is not the business of the state. The state can't make money by taking away violently, applying laws, the property of citizens, declaring public interest, and then after that country sells. So, I told you one case. He may be the only case that will happen throughout Serbia, but the case is worth millions of euros. If it is so small and insignificant, accept this amendment, protect legal certainty in this country, that things like "Belgrade on Water" never happen again, so that the state comes and says – well, we take this from you now. Why? Because there's an investor coming and he's gonna make something. So what's he doing? A model? Bilboard? Is that real? Is this the development of the construction industry? We've been listening to him say I don't know how to go. What's going on? Here, there's a bike track closed. That's what's going on. You built a temporary facility, a restaurant. That's what's going on. So I invite you to accept this amendment. I've only given you one case, one. There may be more, and in order not to be repeated, in order for there to be legal certainty in this country, I invite you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32071	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32072	Thank you. First, it seems to me that when you have explained this amendment, you have completely missed the topic, because the topic that you have discussed "Belgrade on Water" which, of course, we will discuss and should always be proud and talk about what this is all about, what is already being built, more generally in Serbia than before, the subject of this amendment with "Belgrade on Water" has nothing to do with anything. The other thing, when you talk about the amendment, then you can't fool the citizens of Serbia, so you can say that the explanation is just one part of the argument to read, and I'll read you the whole thing. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted because that case rarely occurs, it is the beginning, then the follow-up goes, there is no point in practice, and the-the Proposer considers that there is no need for this legal situation to be singled out, but that, when it appears in practice, principles for the conversion of the right to use into the right of property prescribed by this bill. So, I ask you, most beautifully, don't go astray or the MPs who listen to this, or the citizens of Serbia because it's not an explanation that it only rarely appears, but what is done in this situation and the reason, of course, an explanation why this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32073	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32074	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, I was once again trying to find the amendment to the "Reversal Movement" of the NGO, and I still couldn't find it for a simple reason because the doctor of law science forgot that the amendment could propose an MP, legislator, committee, and could not be proposed by an organisation that has three members. To the side of it all. I noticed Mr. Markovic's literal mistake. If someone in the explanation of the amendment says it's "exposure", then it's "expop", it's an ex-pop. "Expop" means ex-pop, so it has to be "exprop". If this is written by a doctor of legal science, a scientist, what I need from farmers, so that we should generalise in writing or in writing with the president who is being submitted to amendments with services, etc. I think we should write with both left and right hands, ceilings, etc. I think we'd get a long way if we didn't respect some spelling. Then, when I asked here last time, someone said that I was out of common sense because I had no idea, because I claimed that there was “thinking” and“ caressing ” and asked the promoter to say, whether he meant“ caressing, ” as he wrote or meant “thinking. ” Then the promoter got up and said it was a grammatical mistake. The difference between "milding" and "thinking" is not a grammatical error but a literal error. It's grammatical if you move the drop, etc. But I, as a farmer here, am wasting time to convince a doctor that in my proposal for amendments in the future, that I could positively comment on and accept this amendment, that in an appropriate way, both grammatically and spellingly, it is expressed especially because many young generations look up to it, so I ask that we reject not only this amendment, but all other amendments, and I cannot accept that there is always a mistake in some service. I don't think it's a mistake for the service because you could all hear that the officers here don't speak, and let's say that the same well-respected proposer doctor of legal science, in his explanation of the difference between amendments and the law comes and says – measured on the scale, flowers can be painted on the scale, and some photograph can be taken, in fact there can be flowers, or come and say – respected president. It's called the Honorable President. So it's not a mistake for an officer, and that's why I'm asking for this amendment to be rejected. And I'm worried. It's not about officers, it's about the elementary illiteracy of our scientists, and they're still claiming that some other doctoral degrees are being questioned. We need to examine this one and that one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32075	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32076	Thank you, Your Honor. We have heard the presentation of the applicant of the amendment and we have heard today as part of these arguments where there is no basis for any lack of truth, among other things, that less is being built in Serbia today. I would just point out that in the last three months 2,800 building permits have been issued which is 35% more than in the period past and past years and all years behind us, which is a major improvement in that segment. On the other hand, I don't know why we always have a problem with the opposition MPs of all parties, and formerly only one, they have something against "Beograda on Water". Citizens of Serbia, citizens of Belgrade support the "Belgrade on Water" project. You're making a lie here. You say, "Don't worry about the people who live there, and I would ask the man who has submitted this amendment, and who lives there and where does he live and what does he live in?" In the crowds, in houses that have no elemental conditions for life, which can collapse at any moment, and 95% are like that. If you've been watching TV and looking at contributions, you could see that today these people have apartments, decent ones, where they can live, where they can raise their family in the 21st century, and you'd leave them in the mats, where they're scarves, in the basements. That's politics, that's all you did, because you didn't even recognize those people on the map, on your political map that you stood up for. Well, that's the end of politics. These people will have all the appropriate replacements, and that part where they've been stewards, dumps, old ships that you've looked at for years will be one potential and one space where we'll do something modern for our metropolis, for our Belgrade and for our Serbia, where we'll hire our workers, where we'll raise the construction industry. Why are you against it? Don’t always be “difolt ” against some changes that go for the better. Don't do that, gentlemen. You haven't done anything in that space in 20 years, and today you're transferring and you're guilty of "Belgrade on Water", this project is not really a problem, but the problem is that Alexander Vukic, with the help of his really effective policy, can attract both investment and people who want to build and work here and change Serbia. It's a problem for you, we're aware of that. Do not be afraid for "Belgrade on Water", "Belgrade on Water" will begin construction from September or October of this year, and in orderly you will all be invited to open in a year, two or three, and I hope you will respond to the call and will come to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32077	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32078	Mr. Chairman, I absolutely support the amendment and I cannot understand the discussions and Ms. Minister and the esteemed colleagues. It is very important to talk about what is being built and what money is being built from. It is very important that "Belgrade on Water" does not imitate the whole of Serbia, it is false. In Nis there is a parola one – Belgrade on water, and Nis on bread and water. So I absolutely can't understand something that you admire and portray as the success of the Republic of Serbia for which only the Republic Assembly voted. I understand the citizens of Belgrade who support it, and I would support it if I were in Belgrade. But "Begrada na Voda" is financed from the republican budget, not from the self-increasing of citizens of Belgrade. It will go about 800m euros for expropriation and infrastructure equipment. They ask you, why should we from Nis pay for it? Yeah, it's nice, it's nice and it's supposed to be built, but here you go, gentlemen, sign off on your own. Because in the city of Nis, people don't have the money to pay for the heating, and you from the budget are doing infrastructure equipment for a part of the city in the Republic of Serbia that you declared public interest. Call a referendum on whether it's a public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32079	Still, please, I have to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32080	All right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32081	Not here now, the "Belgrade on Water", let's go back to the topic and agenda. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32082	I'd like to put an end to the robbery, as my esteemed colleague Alexander says, but I'd like to put an end to the use of some expressions, hiding behind the Constitution, hiding behind decisions of the Constitutional Court, and they haven't arrived yet, and to call some things real names and not confuse the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, additionally. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says and defines when and in favour of whom expropriation can be carried out. Expropriation can be carried out in favour of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province, for the benefit of local self-government units of municipalities and cities, for the benefit of public enterprises and for the benefit of companies forming public enterprises, whether they are republican or municipal, and for the benefit of companies owned by the Republic of Serbia more than 50%. Dot. Well, now those who are so concerned about the constitutionality of this law had to take care of these provisions of the RS Constitution, which was in force on 11 December 2009. I have a law in my hand so cruel, so important, that it's written on one side and has four whole, five members of the law. Under that law, which is the Law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity, to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11. And the speakers will remember from a little while ago, some voted here for the law because they were MPs in 2009. Some colleagues from Nis were not MPs, but they gave 300 million dinars to expropriate. There he is. And that's in favor of who? In favour of "Yugorosgas". In favour of "Yugorosgas", which, ladies and gentlemen, is only one quarter owned by the Republic of Serbia. So what's the public good, if it's against the Constitution, huge money spent, you passed the law, you voted on the law that it's a public good thing that the property, that the country will bow down to a company that's only in one quarter owned by the Republic of Serbia. Was Nis on bread and water then? Or something else? In 2008, the Board of Property of the City of Nis, issued to the company Jugorosgas, because it is only one quarter owned by the Republic of Serbia, the belief that this company has resolved property legal relations with owners of more than 300 plots on the MG-11 master pipeline Nis – Leskovac – Vranje, although property legal relations with these owners have not been resolved so far. Who said that? Do you recognize this gray gentleman here in the middle? Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister. What about him? Was this Constitution of the RS in force then and now? How did you give the company, which is only one quarter owned by the Republic of Serbia against the Constitution, a huge area? Say it honestly, say it openly. You are against the development of Belgrade. How else to interpret words just before, a fellow who said – and I would support that I am from Belgrade. How much longer do we fight Belgrade and the interior? Belgrade and Nis? Belgrade and Novi Sad? I'm from Vranjska Banja, too, so I look forward to every crane in Belgrade. I look forward to every crane in both Nis and Vranje and Subotica and Novi Sad, wherever it is done, because it is built and built by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There are few of us to share. There are few of us to argue further. The Constitutional Court, I respect the Constitutional Court, more than those who hide behind the Constitutional Court decisions that have not yet been made, and now someone will stand up who knows better than I do. I admit, there are a lot of them in this room, but as you know what the court's decision is going to be? How can it affect the court's decision? How can we order court decisions? If I had said so, the Constitutional Court's decision would be like this, or any court, I believe that I would hang on the terraces. I think and want to live in a state where the judiciary is an independent branch of government, in which no verdict will be ordered, but not commented by politicians and politicians. Every time we hide behind a court decision that hasn't been made yet, that's already the problem of those who do such things. To appeal and initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court is the legitimate right of every MP, every citizen of this country, every political party, every movement, anything. And do it. I won't affect, no one from the government or the SNS will say do it like this or do it like that. Because we can't do it, with no tradition like that, no habit like that. Ordering and court proceedings and lawsuits and convictions. It is precisely because of this habit that we are where we are and where the EU and the Venice Commission have said, because the reform of the judiciary was just to remove some from the judicial authorities and to keep some of them, as did that letter from Vlasotinc - should progress in career because all criminal charges "against" members of the Municipal Committee of the DS of Vlasotinc refused. He's great. That was the basis for career advancement. Don't hide behind something that hasn't been passed yet, and I call on anyone who thinks this is against the Constitution, to invite anyone who thinks this is against the Constitution, to file an initiative, to wait for that verdict. We'll respect the verdict. "A" will not say, nor comment "for" or comment "against", because they respect the court because they respect my country. And for this reason, those who say this was unconstitutional had to remember on 11 December 2009, when they voted in favour of the anti-constitutional law, which gave high value and large assets to a company that owned only one quarter of the country. Those who say Nišli is on bread and water had to know even when they only gave 300 million dinars from the Nis budget of the City of Nis, a company that is only one quarter owned by the Republic of Serbia. Then to raise their voice, not a vote against "Beograda na Voda", a project that will change the geography of Belgrade, but also the structure of Serbia, because it will work, because steel and cement and wood and anything from Serbia will be installed in this Belgrade water, because people from Serbia and the people of Nis and Vranja Banja and Vranja and Vlasotina will work on the project, and we must not act in a way that we will argue with each other in the other parts of our country of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32083	Please, Granny, get back on the subject. By amendment to Olga Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Janko Veselinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32084	Dear Chairman, you probably know which member of the Rules of Procedure you have injured. You injured a member of the 106st Rules of Procedure and in a silent voice you warned mighty Zoran Babic to return to the topic. I, sir, am not afraid of Zoran Babic or SNS MP, and I will represent my views because I am convinced that I am right. And by taking away our word, by insulting us, by threatening us, by not disputing us, won't make it impossible for me to point to everything you do, and working in the interest of the tycoon, those who want to give 1.4 billion euros to the tycoons, to your tycoons. And no disrespect, no threat will prevent me from pointing to it here or on the street, anywhere I can, and please respect the Rules of Procedure and prevent the mighty Zoran Babic and his colleagues from blaspheming at the Rules of Procedure and telling them what they think.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32085	Mr. Veselinović, perhaps in the heat of your speech you didn't even follow yourself what you said. Please don't. No, there's no reason to applaud me, or him, or anyone, but it's simply directed like I told you all this, you understand? Therefore, you must keep in mind when expressing or expressing something you wish to point out. Were there any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Well, I can agree with you in part with that, but when I look at it now, here, this, in ten minutes as far as I'm chairman, you're all breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm just supposed to be a hammer here right now and just hit some bell and warn you to break the Rules of Procedure. I think, simply, sometimes a man asks a question about how to behave at all? If I'm strict then you say - e, now I'm seducing the Dril; if I'm being toleranced again it's no good, etc. I will repeat once again, the order in this assembly depends on the chairman, I agree with you, but it is dictated by you MPs. Therefore, you have the right to plead in the day of voting whether you are asking to plead with the Parliament on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. ) The word is Jovan Marković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32086	Dear Chairman, I appeal to article 108, and I really expected that when you replaced Mr. Becic, who, the fact is, was having a bad time in this session, I expected you to take matters under control, and I am disappointed that you interrupted Mr. Bradic in a minute and 30 seconds, as he spoke. The man apologized for stepping away from the agenda point, and that was fine, and then you let Mr. Babic talk for eight and a half minutes about how he was done on the pipeline, what was done in Vlasotinci with DS committees, come to Terrace and Hanging and you keep quiet and expect only MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure. You, I've seen it, have tried to interrupt Mr. Babic a few times, but you can't do that. If it is the right approach, I really expect you to warn him and all the other MPs and direct them to the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32087	If you think I can't do it, that's your problem. So it's not true. There's only one difference. The difference is who caused that kind of further, let's say, crackdowns...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32088	But eight and a half minutes, the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32089	Please Markovic, I followed Mr Bradic well and I have no reason to man, I did, but they were already finished, but there was no, not "Belgrade on Water" subject to this law. He mentioned it, there's the man, there is. Then you challenged him, started from Beograda on Water to Nis, and I don't know how long it's been since they got here. Let's not do that. So, allow me, I challenge and then the other one needs to keep quiet. I can't behave like that. Let me tell you one more time, don't challenge each other. Go back to the amendment that's simple. I know if you're talking about the amendment that you don't have much to say. The amendment, any one, can be explained in three minutes and get an answer also in one minute and get an answer if a man wants an expert to discuss and I'm aware of that, that's the problem, you understand? Fortunately, this Rules of Procedure should not allow more than one minute, but I am now expressing some of my free opinion, I am sorry, I do not have the right here as chairman, at least not now, but please take care. Really, do you want me to punish you, ask you all? If you enjoy it, let me enjoy it and start here, and I least enjoy it, believe me. Let's get back to the amendments. Now, from this moment on, let's all get back to the amendments. Let's not provoke. Don't connect everything that's been going on now and at least "Belgrade on the Water. “
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32090	But you said now that one sentence said by the opposition MP caused comments eight and a half minutes, and we should take care of it. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32091	Mr. Blagoi, I don't see the basis for the replica, I really don't see the basis, and I won't give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32092	What do you mean, General, what do you mean? The man spoke for eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32093	Don't throw it away. Why are you his lawyer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32094	We need to know some order, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32095	Please don't, you deserve a warning now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32096	Yeah?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32097	It is because you're throwing out of place, you know you have no right to do that, I haven't given you my word, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32098	Can I get the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32099	Let's just see what you tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32100	Mr. Chairman, 104th and 107th. The gentleman waiting for the replica has the right to receive it because it is directly mentioned by the head of the SNS parliamentary bench. You said – there is no problem, first of all, a violation of the Rules of Procedure; I heard you from the scene, I followed it all, and now that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has ended, you say – here, you do not have the right to reply; or you have forgotten what was the basis for the replica, or you simply decided to punish the MPs of the opposition by not giving him the opportunity to replicate because he was misrepresented, because he did not share Belgrade and Nis and did not argue, but only talked about Nis not being satisfied because they did not want the citizens of Nis and the rest of Serbia to pay "Belgrade on water". I say they don't want citizens of Belgrade either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32101	What he was saying was not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32102	We listened here, Mr. Arsenović, believe me, we listened to a comparison between the pipeline and the mall by the head of the Parliament Club. So, please let us just say what we have on this subject, just...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32103	Bozovic, please listen to me, I'm really losing my patience already.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32104	We're not even, Mr. Arsenovicu. No, there's no equality here, to be honest. If you think there is, fine, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32105	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32106	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32107	To give me back my patience, and I will explain to you that you are well-reading Article 104 when it has the right to reply, and then, in the end, read Article 3. I'll read it so I don't speak the free language. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, therefore I have decided that he does not have the right to replication and point. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32108	Thank you. As far as the concrete amendment is concerned, I think that the solution to the bill in this case is a more complete team before we even talk about reducing the market value and the undeveloped building land, that very reduced value must actually be given to a specific category of person, in this case if the building land is located on the territory of a unit of local self-government which has been found to be an underdeveloped unit of local self-government, etc., that I do not read all the views of this said member. I think that, indirectly and in fact, it provides for a certain justice which is, of course, at the head of which, in a law like this, it must find its place and its application. In addition, such a proposed solution protects all those who consider that the matter of conversion can affect the rights relating to the return of the seized property, and thus states in their position of the 3rd article that the percentage, in fact, in point 2 states that the reduction does not relate to the market value of the building land for which the claim for return of the property has been submitted, and in accordance with the rules governing the recovery of the assets. I don't think the amendment should be accepted in this case, but that's why we should keep this solution. In this place, too, I have to say that, since I feel called on here, because I have called upon the Constitutional Court's decision, and I did so first in my debate in principle, no one here calls for a decision that is nonexistent and that has yet to be made. The Constitutional Court's decision exists. It is very clear, it can be read absolutely, and the Constitutional Court's decision should be binding on everyone here and it must be respected and it should be called to the MPs, not in fact an appeal, but a commitment that if they think they are guilty of what is taxed, and many things are listed, both in disposition and in the explanation of the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court, that they will be in a situation to reassess and assess its constitutionality. So no one's hiding behind something that hasn't been brought here. Here someone is calling for something that has already been brought and that should be absolutely legally binding for us as MPs. On the other hand, the fact that people who come from the judiciary, let's say, specifically from law enforcement, might have a better estimate of whether something potentially will be declared unconstitutional, it's absolutely natural and it's nowhere strange, not us, not in any other country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32109	The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov, after the hurt of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think you've hurt Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I answered right when you gave your colleague Batic the word. I don't think anyone in this assembly can satisfy your reasoning - I've decided you have no right to a replica and a point. You, however, are a member of 27. The Rules of Procedure obliges you to lead this Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not as you think about someone's right to reply, you cannot decide on a matter of your own free will, but you should decide whether or not that MP has a right to reply. If MP Zoran Babic here is trying to convince us that the same public interest in the construction of the pipeline and the construction of the shopping centre, and if I am declaring certain decisions from the past against the constitution, all by convincing us that no one has the right to do so in advance, direct a series of questions to the MP Bradic, who spoke before him, you are hardly able to say to us – I have decided that he does not have the right to replication and point, because you have to decide in accordance with what it says in Article 104, and not according to how you feel at that moment and I fear only in accordance with whether the replica is sought by a national MP who supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which case you always decide to meet the conditions for replication, or a national MP who does not support the government, in which case no one has the right of replication. I want the Assembly to come forward, I want to tell you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32111	You want the Assembly to plead? But I also have to answer some questions. When I was talking about giving the right to a replica, I only read attitude three, counting on two of the first to know. I assume you know them. Given your behavior, you forget and completely eliminate the way you present and violate the Rules of Procedure. You have also now advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but then explained how Babic now replied to Mr Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32112	No, I was explaining why you were obliged to give us the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32113	Babic only expanded what Mr Bradic started and nothing more. I agree he's in broad shape, but he just expanded it. Let's not argue about this right now. If you're offended by what I said at the end of the sentence point, that's what I'm willing to apologize for. I didn't want to demonstrate any force of my own, but I used a sentence from beginning to point. I don't think there were any injuries, but your right is yours, and you've already decided to have the Assembly plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, the president will take the lead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32115	Madam President, Rule 107 of Rule 1 has been broken. When the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not respect the Constitution, I think it violates the dignity of the National Assembly. When it is clearly written in the Constitution that the expropriation is done only in favour of the state of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government, public enterprises whose founder is the state of Serbia or the AP or units of local self-government or in favour of the company of the majority owned state of Serbia, the point. Explosion doesn't apply to purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32116	You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but the reason for the injury is, you explain what's been said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32117	Because it was said, and the chairman did not react in such a way that the violation of the Constitution under the Law on the determination of public interest in the expropriation of the Master's gas pipeline MG11, it was said that it was not a violation of the Constitution just because it was a gas pipeline or a plumbing, regardless of what was done in favor of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32118	You know that the chairman can't judge the violation of the Constitution and that he reacts to say that someone has violated the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32119	Well, we can propagate whatever we want here now and talk about whatever we want and it's allowed to someone, and someone's not allowed. All right, then let the same arches be for everyone. If I'm preventing myself, if you're preventing me from talking about breaking the Constitution and still breaking the Constitution, it's still said – it's a pipeline, it doesn't matter, and you're building some malls, even though we know it's hundreds and hundreds of thousands of squares and public areas in Belgrade on water and malls and business areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32120	Time. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32121	But Belgrade is on the water mostly owned by the Serbian state, unlike those who are calling for a Rules of Procedure, and they violated the constitution because... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32122	I need to intervene. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Because they have expropriated in favour of a company that is only one-quarter owned by the Serbian state. I have to intervene, really. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure or anything in the last half hour. I apologize to the vice president who had to attend a session like this. Once again, the chairmanship of those who prevent the session from going its course, and MPs are working so hard to discuss amendments. It seems the general impression that it is better that we have neither presidents nor vice presidents and that it goes as MPs wish, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and that if he wanted a vice president, it would have been a waste of time, and that would have ended the session, because with the real injuries of the Rules of Procedure we really haven't faced in a long time. We are on Article 6 of the amendment submitted by MP Dr Janko Veselinović and we cannot hear anything about the amendments if you allow him to say something and chair, regardless of his name and last name. We're in exactly the same situation whenever we're having a session, because we're the ones that stop a good session. (Zoran Babic, from the post: I ask to be voted. () Absolutely, just, it wasn't me that hurt the Rules of Procedure, it was my predecessor. They'll vote, of course. Do you allow, MPs, to move to the agenda? I don't know, here, I want to consult this publicly in front of the public what the Parliament's intention is, since neither the president nor the vice presidents meet the criteria of the MPs, and we absolutely don't know we're holding a session, so I'm willing to deal with what's best and how you want us to continue. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: We agree with you. All right. That's what I'm asking of other MPs. We have many parliamentary groups, twelve, not two, but twelve, to hear how they imagine work. The Deputy Prime Minister is here to speak to you about the proposed amendments. We're here, we're not good, tell us how you imagined it. We can stop, meet another day, but this happens from month to month, day to day. Does anyone want to speak on article 6 or on general subjects? We're willing to listen to each other. (Niko) Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic throws out of town. I don't know, I don't know. Nobody knows who's looking at us, what this is about or where you're standing, nothing. I see one amendment, and here there's talk of hundreds of topics, no matter who's answering for the agenda. We move on to the next amendment, with great pleasure. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I ask the MPs to speak of the proposed amendment and the resolution of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want to talk about his amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32123	Dear fellow Members of the People, I believe that these few amendments, or several of which we will discuss in the next period, are, above all, an article. 7, 8 and 9, are fundamentally important and I ask you to take special kind of attention and commitment to engage in this debate, because I think it's on these members, who are talking about reducing the market value of building land, unbuilt land and built land that is in the complex, that we can expose, I don't know if you're following me, the intention of the bill promoter, which is directed in this direction to give up land, that the building land, as is the Agency for the fight against corruption in its central section of address and said in this Assembly. The Agency says this - this way the reduced market value of building land becomes a rule when determining the amount of compensation instead of the exception. In Article 2 of the Law we discussed, we pointed out that, later in Article 7, in Article 8, in Article 9, in Article 13, in Article 18, etc., it is just opening up the question under which conditions, if criteria are not prescribed, the competent authority of the local administration, in this case the property legal authority, is making a solution? If there are no clear criteria on which rules will be laid down, then we have problems with how these organs will act. Other important problems are not specified deadlines. The third important problem is not certain deadlines for the second degree of action, and we are facing very serious problems as to how certain estimated values will be reduced. We are through the precision of the formulation in this article, which refers to that instead of the term listed here, which is that the rules on state aid control are used here, asked for the term "state aid control law" to be introduced. Please, Minister, take a look at the explanation given in this case, which is why this termology and this amendment are not accepted. It is said that the word "law" is not enough and that if the term were to be used then it would be questionable to apply sublaws and regulations. I suppose the laws are treated as roof laws, i.e. regulations and sublaws should be in conformity with the law. If this is a good explanation for you, then I invite you to look at Article 12 of the Law which says that the term "state aid control law" is used. So you have both Article 5, and Article 7, and Article 12 that are completely opposite to each other. I think you should have used this good will of ours and the amendment that we have submitted in that sense to bring this terminology into line. All those MPs, who were in front of the ruling coalition, spoke about this law and said that we hadn't read the laws, that we hadn't read the members of the law, that we had a bad intention and that we don't know what we're talking about should refer to what the Anti-Corruption Agency said. Essentially, members 7, 8 and 9 threaten the good, if any, intention of the legislator of this law and give opportunity precisely because it is not normable, which is not a specific legal framework for those who issue a solution at all levels to act in accordance with what they assess. It is not good for the citizens of Serbia, nor for this law, nor for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32124	The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakić, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Aleksandra Tomic and Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32125	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly to express my gratitude to the Deputy Prime Minister for accepting this amendment submitted by representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as representatives of the various political parties, both the positional and the opposition. It is, in fact, that through this amendment, together with colleagues from the ministry, we have led to a delay in construction while the court proceedings are under way and that, instead of a court ruling in that member of the law, we have the words "an expert in economic professions from the list of authorised judicial experts". In this way we will succeed in not stopping the construction process, we will succeed in reducing costs and, of course, what is for business development, for a favourable investment climate is most important to save in this way of time. We will also have the effect of legal certainty with a maximum cost reduction. As far as the qualifications are concerned, when it comes to dialogue and consultations on this law with various chambers, professional associations, business associations, I can only support you and in some ways say that these qualifications are, in some ways, dangerous, because it seems like someone wants us back in the time of the central or planned economy. Who are we going to have a dialogue with and who are we going to consult with if we don't have business associations? Who are we going to consult if we don't have the best and best quality companies that create here by overdoing the effects, which employ people and directly affect our economic growth as we need it and to further employ people, develop technologies and make our young people, highly educated people stay in Serbia? It is precisely the largest companies, the best companies, which we want to bring into Serbia to invest in, that did not want to run litigation with the state, because it is not good, it is not a good message to other investors and it does not match any company that manages the rules and procedures of socially responsible business. So this is just one logical move. Thank you for understanding this, and together we will work on repairing the business environment in the Republic of Serbia which has already reached a very high level, but of course within these activities we can come to a bigger place and a better position and doing business list of the World Bank, through the full implementation of the Law on Planning and Construction, but also the implementation of this Law on Conversion that will foster construction through multiplier effects and various other sectors of industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32126	The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I ask the Minister to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32127	We accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32128	Amendment accepted. Thank you. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32129	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister Mihajlovic, honored guests, distinguished citizens, is the most controversial member of this bill. We have suggested that this article 8 be deleted, and I will explain why, even though we have talked about it in the last few days, and in the good part of the time in the debate on amendments today. One billion 429m euros is money that will not go to the Restitution Fund, neither the Republic of Serbia's budget, nor local self-government, nor the AP Vojvodina. Why? Because this provision is most directly devising the whole bill. He speaks of the fact that the owners of enterprises and companies that have executed the re-named state can donate free property to land worth hundreds of millions of euros, more specifically a billion and 429 million. That's what we're worried about, that's where Serbia will stay damaged, and that's why we said that we stand up for such a solution and that we will vote against such a law. I have a statement in my hand yesterday from Mr. Petrovic, who is president of the American Chamber of Commerce, that we understand that she has nothing to do with America as we had the opportunity to hear today. The American Chamber of Commerce is a chamber that gathers among other individuals whose interest this is, of particular interest, where the loudest member of "Luka Belgrade" and Mr. Milan Beko, who, among other things, is obviously, so according to these provisions stands, and wrote this bill. Mr Petrovic thanks Minister Mihajlovic for allowing typhoon stories and businesses to receive property without compensation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32130	MP, about the amendment, about the essence of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32131	... on the amendment. That's right. The essence of the amendment is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32132	There's no thanks in the amendments. No one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32133	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32134	You can if you want to talk about the amendment - why delete the member and the one in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32135	... To those who are in the interest of granting land without compensation in property so that the next day they can either re-purpose or have already committed and to adopt there something that is property of the Republic of Serbia in those locations we have proof that it was the very ones who advocated the conversion without compensation. Although in its title it has a word of compensation, this is proof that it is actually happening solely in the interest of a few, a narrow circle of people who in 23 controversial privatisations of these 5,000 hectares have been taken over and today the government of the Republic of Serbia is obviously paying back some debts, allowing them to receive property without compensation on built land. To be clear, when it comes to 5,000 acres, the largest number of cases and most of that total amount is built land. There, which is an unbuilt land, it can be reversed again when it comes to this law and conclude a 99-year long-term lease. Mr. Petrovic thanked investors for building something as soon as possible. We don't fight construction. On the contrary, we have shown how much we have done, but from now on, we are not talking about the future. Not a few people who are going to get property without compensation from that amount of land are going to pull the construction industry out of the crisis it's fallen into. They won't do it. They want to increase their enormous wealth that they have and that the gap between the rich and all other citizens in Serbia is expanding even more. Only today are the government's representatives, the top SNS lives better, while citizens live much worse...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32136	Ambassador, this isn't a tribune or a rally. Ambassador, I know that... This is not a tribune or a rally, nor do I know who you're talking to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32137	Mrs. Mihajlović said and when the debate was in principle we had the opportunity to listen to statements that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32138	MP, about the amendment. How can I prove to you, most kindly, I ask you as well as the other MPs, or you can all discuss amendments or we can end the debate on amendments and we can only talk in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32139	Can I quote the minister on this matter, this amendment from two days ago? I don't know why you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32140	Yes, you can. I know, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32141	Please, just let me. I know you mind me saying this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32142	Yes, you can. No, I'm very calm.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32143	It has nothing to do with you as President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32144	It's got something to do with me. Of course it has something to do with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32145	It's the law, it has nothing to do with you. I mean, it doesn't... So, the point is that Minister Mihajlovic herself has already said several times in this Assembly – the right to use building land can turn into property rights in two ways – conversion and lease. Can someone explain to me how a lease can turn something into property? The lease is an institution that doesn't lead to property rights. It's a 99-year lease. In this amendment, we are just solving a question that one can ask before the RS Constitutional Court. The conversion was made without compensation, no matter what its title was. On the other hand, it allowed against, or unfairly, the anti-constitutional acquisition of huge property benefits for a few of the tycoons that apparently support those of the RS government. This isn't in the citizens' interest. This isn't in the interest of the state. We had the opportunity to prove it today for more, for more discussion, but what's most controversial is that the state will remain deprived and the Restitution Fund for huge funds. Are we going to get back together in different ways so that what we don't take from the tycoon, after we've already given them, we're going to cut back, for example, some wages and pensions, and that's how we charge the Restitution Fund, I don't know. It's already a topic for those who came up with this law. Under these provisions, I would not be surprised if, I repeat, it was written in "The Port of Belgrade" and I believe that this will also be a member, Article 8. A bill that will be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. I say, I hope so. Any decision by the Constitutional Court will oblige each of us who sit in this assembly hall today, and even Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, because I think this is the thing today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32146	Ambassador, can we talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32147	I talk about the amendment all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32148	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32149	You haven't read the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32150	You know, about the amendments, we need to be very specific. Therefore, the debate on amendments differs from those in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32151	The explanation has three sides. You can read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32152	What do you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32153	The explanation is on three sides. You can read freely. So, I can't all three sides...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32154	I have to apologize. I can't hear it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32155	I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32156	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32157	Just time to give it back to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32158	I can't give it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32159	What was the point in 2009 was that the DS wanted to charge the tycoons...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32160	Ambassador, thank you. You have more amendments, there will be opportunities. It's a shame you spend all your time not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32161	How can you take my word for it because...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32162	You want to talk about everything except the amendment, and I repeat my relationship once more... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32163	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32164	I can't for sure. I just said, "You don't need a president or a chairman." Everyone thinks they should, and that's fine. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: you are not fit for me to propose this amendment at all. Are you mad at me? No, I'm not here to discuss it at all. I can't. Thank you very much. You will continue. It's a shame you spend all your time not talking about the amendment. Minister, have you given up? No, I don't. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32165	With pleasure, thank you. First of all, I just want to say a few important facts, to point out once again, the reason why we're passing the law on the conversion of rights of use to property with compensation is precisely to uncut everything that happened in previous years, in 2009, when it was not possible to do and to build, first of all, on building land, whether it was not built or built and, of course, in certain cases that were not solved. I'm not sure anyone can do well if there's building land, unless there's new factories on it and there's no new buildings, and if there's no other people working there. The amendment you have made cannot be accepted because you are truly wrong, especially when you say that something will be given to someone in vain, etc., but not to repeat your words. Those companies, primarily manufacturing companies that were building on certain land during the previous period, primarily production companies, will certainly have a smaller fee, undeniably, but those who did other jobs, so from different businesses they received the right to use, and did nothing will have and will pay much more. Since you keep mentioning "Luka Belgrade", let me point out once again, to make it clear to all, firstly, the Serbian government is currently establishing the port area. The port area can never be the subject of conversion, it's first, it's exclusive by law and it writes it. So it's the first very important thing that we've repeated several times to know. The "Luke Belgrade" land, which is not a port area, not built, has no reduction, is paid at market value. Therefore, do not speak and keep saying that someone is giving something to someone. Those tycoons you're talking about and those laws you've been making, so we don't come back and open the debate, they're not made by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32166	I've got to take a turn. It's full of lists. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Replica. No replica, the minister was very correct in her address. She just answered. You can pick up the amendment, but I have to empty the list first. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32167	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Of course, we can't accept this amendment, because this is another amendment in a series of pointless amendments, which don't bring anything fundamentally into the advancement of this law, that we can change something for the better, but just, well, to write something down so that someone has the right to come forward and bring out a series of false things that we've been listening to here all day. Nowhere in this law has we been able to find, nor has anyone said, that anything is given, that it is divided into nothing, that it is given away for nothing. There's only one member that defines a reduction in the fee and that's under certain circumstances and certain conditions, and you keep trying to spin the story and turn it around, which is to give someone something in vain. That's not true. That's what some of us used to do before us. We ask a clear and concrete question – who has used land so far, in the previous 15 or 20 years, 5,000, 5,310 hectares or whatever? We even have information, we all remember when the Law on Planning and Construction was adopted here, that a very distinguished colleague had potentiated the law on conversion and that the land could be alienated without compensation. There were plenty of opposition MPs who talked about it. It's obvious to you that what fits the day you get up, whether it's rainy or sunny, then you talk completely unrelated, from law to law. We are trying to have one thread and all the laws, and the law that will be passed on to the cataster and this law that we will adopt, I hope, today, as well as the Law on Planning and Construction, all that we follow and introduce into one system, that we can finally establish a system in our country, which is necessary and necessary. When we talk about how this law was passed, more precisely how it came into this procedure, and we'll bring it, most likely, 137 local self-governments participated in the talks and an analysis of their territory and building land was made to have a wide picture, a complete picture, a picture based in fact, in an objective attitude, so that this law can then be implemented in the best possible way. It's the easiest politically sound fire, but please don't talk about it. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: This is about the amendment? That's the fundamental difference, because you've alienated...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32168	I'm sorry, I wasn't listening, I don't know what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32169	There was a political establishment, to correct myself, if I could, the Honorable Chairman, who put the country into depravity and not just the country, the chairman, we're fighting it, they're giving it to companies, we know what privatisations were. After all, on that land that you've given for nothing and all those factories that were privatized in one suspicious way, who made it possible? We're not sure here, someone made it possible, and now you're all respecting us, and we weren't involved in it at all. How come you're not embarrassed?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32170	Ambassador, please, I'm asking you the same thing about the amendment. So the rights to reduce the market value of building land, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32171	I agree, Your Honor, the President. You interrupted me in the third minute and 31st seconds, Mr Bozovic in the eighth minute and 52nd seconds, it's not that problem at all. I want you to keep order at this session, but don't let the chairman say that anyone else has written any law in this assembly, and that's all I'm asking, and that's what you've allowed before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32172	I thank and say again that I am the only one responsible for everything spoken here to the MPs and to each other. I accept that, no matter who says, but I would ask the MPs to consider the way they imagined the discussion would go. I accept that I can't control who's going to say what in a second and stop right now. I admit it. There are people who can't admit their mistakes. I have to make sure someone doesn't get hurt. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32173	Do I have the right to the replica of Madam President? I am looking for a replica on Mr Bozovic's words that the top of the SNS lives richer, better and more boastful.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32174	Yeah. You did say it, only Jovicic just called before Zoran Babic. I'm sorry, we'll count 30 seconds as zero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32175	Thank you, Madam President. In this room there are several members of the SNS presidency, SNS is a party of the same people, a member of the presidency, a member of the executive board, a board member, we are not making a difference and we are not dealing with the elite. That's why I'm looking for a replica on behalf of all 500,000 SNS members. Unlike a young colleague, who was so young during the exercise of power and acquired a building on Banovic Strahinje Street, then a cafe on Obilić's crown, and a lot more. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: This dares? My property and property, although very nervous about it now, my property and property of my colleagues and friends in the SNS has not changed, not for the last three years, has not changed since 2008, when I became a MP, not my children, not my wife, not my parents, not my close family. That is why I do not know what is the principle on which the building in Banovic Strahinje and the coffee shop at Obilić's wedding can be acquired. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: You really allow this? ) How can the project "Belgrade on Water" be criticised? Who will only live better than this project "Belgrade on Water" in this room? I'm sure most MPs won't be able to afford real estate again, a young colleague. He needs to explain to us what his connection to the company Novaston is to resell apartments in "Belgrade on Water". I have nothing against what someone will live better, we do that all people in Serbia live better, regardless of political belongings, but you can't criticize something, and you can't live off it, and you can't give someone a burden to get rich, and you get rich yourself, and while you're in power and now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32176	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic throws out of town. Ambassador Bozovic, don't yell at me. You haven't answered, I can't explain. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: How did I not? I called five minutes ago. You're not on the list, impossible. There are three MPs – Jovan Markovic, Blagoje Bradić, Aleksandra Jerkov. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: I answered, here is the light. I don't know what's bright for you, but you're not on the list. Sign up. You just checked in. Don't yell at me and protest the way someone said something, come in. I don't know how to explain to the MPs that they're not chairing those who react to one side and the other, that's why they exist. We are not the ones who will replicate with the MPs, so there is an institute of replicas. We're like traffickers. Otherwise, I'll give you my word, because you've personally identified yourself, and as a rule, a young colleague, he hasn't spoken your name, and the chairman, whoever he is, should not have given the word, but you've recognized yourself and demanded and I will give you the word, and you will now explain why. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32177	Thank you. This is a straight line, I guess. Madam President, I didn't want to ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although you did so by not warning Mr Zoran Babic that he could not address anyone in this way, especially because he didn't say a single word that was true. Here, that's what I'm saying and I'm signing. If it makes you honor to listen to the lies on my behalf...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32178	Now I'm going to tell you something. You're replicating me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32179	I'm talking to you, it's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32180	Not in the replica, but you talk to me all the time. I'm not obliged to know at all if they're telling the truth any of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32181	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32182	If you stop replicating me, because you're not looking for a replica of me, you're looking for Zorana Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32183	So I'm never going to get into whether you have hotels, whether they're from your father or from you, whether you're richer by a million euros or not. I'll never get into whether you have hundreds of thousands of euros in suits or not. My property is available, I reported it as any MP, so you can check what I have of the property. All you've said is false and it's very incorrect on your part, because I've never dealt with these things in this MP's career and you know it best. I wasn't telling the truth about any of you, any of you, and imagine me going to talk about who's watch and where he bought it, whether it's official or not. So, I'm asking you for minimum correctness, because that's the way you as head of the biggest club of MPs speak for a lot of people here. I don't think that's correct and that it's wrong on your part. You haven't spoken a word of the truth, and what you're trying to do serves you both the face and the honor, if you have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32184	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32185	I still haven't heard the explanation of the relationship between Mr Bozovic and Novoston and its role in the sale of real estate in "Belgrade on Water". This is the Roamer watch I'm wearing and I'm ready to trade it with Mr. Bozovic's watch right now, which was bought six years ago and paid 8,000 dinars to trade it with Mr. Bozovic. Here, I took it off. Here, Mr. Bozovic, let's change watches. But I'm ready to change all the property that's in my possession...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32186	Where are you going, Ambassador Bozovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32187	Here, I give you. Since you don't have one, I'm giving it to you. Great. (National MP Balsa Bozovic approaches and takes an hour from MP Zoran Babic. ) But I am also prepared to trade all property owned by my family, my family for property owned by the company, i.e. the Bozovic family, and Balša and Zeka and all members. I mention these people, but please, I beg you, Mr Bozovic, do not make a mistake like Mr Stefanovic did, do not mention the name of a dead man who has not been alive for 11 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32188	MPs, please, we've gone too far. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32189	One sentence only. But that's why I'm also willing to show that Zoran Babic, that no member of the SNS, there is no one in these parliamentary benches, say, contract with the "Stari Grad Business Area", where there is a young colleague's cafe. I'm ready to show you something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32190	Do you want to answer or do you want to finish? (National MP Jovan Markovic asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. No, not you. Please, I asked Balša Bozovic if she wanted to answer this. You just sit down, and you can stand still. So, I asked Balša Bozovic if she wanted to answer this or if she wanted us to move on? I've got the answer to all of this, I'm just gonna keep my mouth shut and I'm gonna take it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32191	Thank you, Madam President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I don't have an hour, and I got it on a gift from Mr. Babic, I'll give it to charity. What Mr Babic has just said, strong and fearless, is not true. I'm asking all citizens to check out what I have. In the end, it's also public information when it comes to me. What I'm talking about is a law written by Milan Beko, so this is a way to distract citizens from the truth. A billion and 492 million were given to tycoons in Belgrade and Serbia and issued by the Republic of Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32192	Thank you very much. It doesn't make any sense. A five-minute break for everyone. You've really gone too far, all together. A five-minute break and you understand that according to the Rules of Procedure, this one after the break won't happen, believe me. To be honest, as chairman, I'm telling you, this is nothing like anything else. I believe it cheers and it's interesting, but we're gathered for the amendment, and I'm going to admit my impotence. The only thing I'm gonna do is start punishing and there aren't any more MPs in the O.R. and we're gonna end the debate, not all of it. [[After a break.]] Dr. Blagoje Bradic, here's your amendment. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure? First you called when you were talking, and then you changed your mind? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I held the Rules of Procedure two or three times before my colleagues spoke. Here you go, will you do the Rules of Procedure now? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32194	Dear Chairman, I call on the 107th and 109th members of the National Assembly to speak of the dignity of the National Assembly and that MPs should not bring personal data and private life into the debate. I think that perhaps you yourself are not aware of your responsibilities when, in the last few dozen minutes, you allow Mr Babić, above all, to present in such an ugly way the lies about a fellow MP and you are likely not aware of all the consequences, i.e. the public's reaction to such statements and in such words. Instead of interrupting Mr. Babic, you warmly supported him, little with your smile, little with Minister Mihajlovic looming over what is being said here. I'm one of the people who's willing to trade everything he's gained in life for a tenth of what Mr. Babic and the others have...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32195	Okay, so it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you're doing a little replicating, right? And to say everything that bothers you, only it wasn't told to you, it was told to someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32196	From a personal angle, I felt, as a man, how terrible it is when in this way, and especially in this House, it talks about individuals and people. I had the opportunity to feel on my skin what Mrs. Mihajlovic's accusation of stealing fish in Lake Vrtca at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32197	Okay, but not about yourself, please, but about hurting the Rules of Procedure, if possible. So, I hurt a member of 107 and 109, right? Because I did not react to something that was brought to the expense of MEP Bozovic. I absolutely understood and thank you. Let's not go in there and talk about when you felt hurt. So it's not a theme now, and thank you. I'll answer you right now for both 107 and 109. Thank you. I don't think either of us or the vice presidents can control this session today, except to start mass-pronounced. That's what the three of us had a brief consultation. We refrain from it. We abstain and try to convince you, I still say too bad it doesn't say MPs can break the Rules of Procedure. It's our experience. Sit down. Too bad it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. And we can't break the Rules of Procedure for 15 months, that we're the only culprits. Come on, sit down really, really on the consults, read everything and everything, but nobody's ever looked back on their behavior. So if I broke it, I broke it twice, because the MP you were now talking about, as someone who suffered and insulted, was also returning the same measure to the other MP. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Me? Not you, just work. Where did you guys recognize each other? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Is that your answer to what I said? Don't, please, answer me, please. I'm trying to do something about this session. Be nice all together a little bit. Give the word to Blago Bradich to talk about the amendment, we forgot where we left off. Please, we'll vote 107th and 109th, right? Ambassador Markovic? We're voting on 107 and 109? Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32198	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow citizens, I have come to support the amendment to Article 8 to explain it, to explain why I think this assembly majority should, i.e. All of us to support the amendment, to adopt, and he says Article 8 is deleted. The whole bill, the whole idea, as we heard from the minister and from you, a respected fellow from the assembly majority, is the activation of building land, on the one hand, and on the other hand, one of the benefits, as said by the Minister, a billion euros and a change of millions of euros in the budget, which is the directorate, which is the local self-government, the province or the Republic of Serbia, depending on which land we are talking. That is, as the Minister said, which is referred to by Article 8, about 0.8-0.9% of the building land in Serbia. It's just over 5,000 hectares, but hectares at the most attractive locations in all the cities and municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, that's the topic. The point is that those who have the right to use, and they want to have the right to ownership, i.e. to register on their own behalf, pay compensation prescribed by local self-government, certain authorities of local self-government that will receive it as a liability. However, this Article 8 states: “In the process of converting catastral plots of built building land, the area of land for regular use of the facility is determined by dividing the total area of land under the buildings built on that cadastral plot, which is determined on the basis of data from the transcription of the immovableity list, by dividing the maximum area allowed by the busyness index on that cadastrian plot, which is established by a valid plan document, and on the basis of the information issued on the location and the obtained amount multiplied by the total surface of the cadastral plot.” This area shall be free of payment of the change in the right of use in the right of ownership. Those who know and who worked in administrations and who know how the Department of Urbanism and Urbanism works in cities where we come from, know that it's over 70-80% of the area of pay, i.e. The parcels that were made, so there's nothing out of the billions and 400 million. In order to achieve benefits and if we are all in favour of moving forward and the state benefiting from its land, then this Article 8 must be deleted. Otherwise, what this law says is disabling to this Article 8 and Article 18, which we have also proposed to delete, which further dissuades the entire law and everything that is intensities and, I have no doubt, the good intentions of the Ministry and the Government. If there are good intentions, delete Article 8, that we have a financial effect in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32199	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the bearer of the amendment. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32200	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted an amendment proposing that Article 8 be deleted because we do not see what might be the reason why the building land would not be paid compensation for turning the right to use into property rights. Moreover, we believe that, although this law is called the Bill on the Conversion of the right of use to property on building land with compensation, this 8th member actually means that it is the conversion of the right of use to property rights on construction land without compensation. In fact, I think the minister is aware that most of the land that is in the privatisation process and over which the right to use has been acquired by certain businessmen is built building land, not construction land. This means that these people did not buy some building land and privatized it, but factories, perhaps a key word - ports, etc., so that the subject of privatisation was, in fact, built up the building land to the most extent, not undeveloped. We believe, and we have already announced that we will ask the Constitutional Court to establish such a thing, that this member of the bill is against it, for at least two reasons. The first is that it was the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013 which was much said that the discount was against the constitution, and imagine just what it would say that the whole donation of the building land is against the constitution. The second reason is that we believe that in an unequal position citizens are placed and that they are, in fact, those persons from Article 8, who have never paid the right of property on building land will actually get that right of property for the simple reason that they privatised land on which something has already been built. As the minister, as the president seems to me, concluded very correctly by not giving anyone a cause for replication, she voiced when she said the DS created tycoons. I will also be very correct from the chairman, I expect not to give anyone a cause for replication, to say -- that this SNS bill gives these tycoons a billion and 429m euros. In the same way the Minister explains why this amendment should not be accepted, I explain why I believe it should be accepted. With this proposal, this article 8, all building land on which something was built will go free into the property of those people we today call tycoons, which you say – the DS created them, and I say - the SNS today supports them and gives them a billion and a half euro of money from Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32201	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32202	The chairman, a respected minister, in an attempt to make proposals in this Article 8 that will advance both this member and this law, we went step by step, but indeed after a longer analysis, we saw that it was pointless to propose anything in the amendment of this article and therefore we decided to delete this proposal. All MPs, once again, I call for attention to this article, that the Anti-Corruption Agency also drew attention to the fact that members 7, 8 and 9 relating to the reduction of the market value of the building land and the construction, and the land that is in the complex, are given discretionary rights to local administrations, to assess without criteria of value and how this market price will be reduced. This is a member of a law that opens up a space for corruption. This member of the law actually says there won't be any charge, the income you've been talking about. This member of the law is essential that you know that in the next period, not that there will be no income for the Restitution Fund, for local self-government and the Republic of Serbia, there will be only damage. We'll talk later about what happens if the applicant goes in the direction of renting land, if all those members that the Anti-Corruption Agency has talked about, well analyze, you'll see that the whole law is bad. That's why we asked you to withdraw this law from the procedure. That's why we said it wasn't good for so many members of the law, this law that we're considering and the Construction Planning Act to overlap, that is, the opposite. That's why we're calling you one more time, pay attention to this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32203	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32204	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Guests, an explanation of why Article 8 is deleted once again, there is no reason why building land in property owned by large-scale capital owners would be given for free. What is very important to us is the Constitution and the laws for the simple reason that we want to follow everything that represents the Constitution and the constitutional values of the Republic of Serbia. So this way, by Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not all equal on the market. With this in mind, we place a few in a position of privilege and all other citizens of Serbia in second order. We don't think that's right. We think this Constitutional Court is going to shoot down. We believe that a billion and 429m euros will belong to those who participated in 23 controversial privatisations. We believe that this law is against the interests of citizens and the Republic of Serbia and we believe that this is a kind of betrayal of our national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32205	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32206	I respect what Mrs. Mihajlovic has been doing for two days. I also respect what the MPs of the people, the MPs of the SNS have been doing here for two days. I can't understand it anymore, and I've read this law countless times, article 8, especially, where it says here anything is given without compensation. Well, if the citizens of Serbia don't have to believe my word, here, I'll read Article 8. – the right to reduce, not release, the right to reduce the market value of the building land shall have persons referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act, regardless of where the mobility is located when the request is submitted for the conversion of the cadastral plot of built building land under the conditions prescribed by this law. There's no free. There's no compensation. In the case referred to in Article 1, the amount of compensation shall be determined by establishing the market value, etc., etc., etc. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: There is no etc., etc.... )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32207	Please, Mrs. Comic, Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away, please. (Gordana Comić, from the scene: You've really gone too far.) I'm quiet and I'm listening. Mrs. Comic, if you say that before Miss Jerkov threw that it wasn't you, here, I apologize, but... (Gordana Comić, from the scene: You've really gone too far, really.) Well, if you say so, I'm sorry, but I'm absolutely sure you've thrown Mr. Babic's exposure, and then you've been dropped by Miss Jerkov. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I sit down and keep my mouth shut.) Well, if you say so, it's an honor to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32208	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for waiting patiently for the turn of these throws. And, moreover, Mrs. Comic throws a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I apologize, and for that, I accept that I am also guilty of throws that are permanent on the other side. I will make an apology, so for the things said, that something is given to someone for free, and if it is not written in law, but the citizens of Serbia, it's the MPs and the MPs who want to read, not to cheer, who want to see what is written here, and not by an auto-project of what they would do and how they would do and do. I've been here a lot of times, and that's why I'd be begging you, all of us, to talk about things that are written, not any insinuations. Nowhere in Article 8 anywhere in any member of this law is said to receive anything, anything, without compensation. Today, many have been calling for the Anti-Corruption Agency. I respect what the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing, under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Somehow, when the same Anti-Corruption Agency initiates proceedings against one of the DS MPs, it initiates proceedings and even gets convicted, it is the Agency's fault. Now that the Agency gives an opinion, then it's the government's fault. Well, agree once whether you support the Agency or do not support the Anti-Corruption Agency. When she's good and then when she goes against a respected colleague, she's not here, I don't want to name him, because I wouldn't have anyone to answer, it's not fair, and then she's quiet, and then it's the Agency's fault, and then she's wrong about some pastures on the Wizard. Now that he's giving an opinion, whether by law or not, I don't go in, but I respect what the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing, then he's guilty, and then we'll use the Anti-Corruption Agency in every sentence. You only make a deal when you support her and when you criticize her. Make a deal when you respect the law, when you don't respect the law. But no matter what you do, you have to read what's written, not what you want it to be written.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32209	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32210	I thank the chairman. To be honest, looking strictly legal, I'm not sure the proposed amendment will fix anything unless another solution is given. And the second solution must be given for the simple reason that there is a land institute here for the regular use of the facility. The land for a regular facility has its value and must be shown. I beg you, Your Honor, because we don't want to politicize in any way the problem, to detect any other problem. The problem here may in practice cause multiple problems, which is the 2nd position in which it is said - that the amount of compensation will be determined by reducing the established market value of the catastrian parcel by the amount of the market value of land for the regular use of the facility. I asked the question in principle – what if the land for the regular use of the facility is a larger area and greater value than the land that is the subject of conversion? I gave one very, very practical reason that I was right. We have a judicial verdict establishing the right to land for the regular use of the facility at one hectare. I mentioned who it was. It's a passenger traffic company from Užica. For what purpose is this land? What facility? For the platform. The platform is significantly smaller than one hectare, incomparably smaller area. So how are we going to subtract the value of land from one hectare that is extremely high compared to the value of a platform that is undoubtedly smaller? How did we determine that? We've determined by craftsmanship, by means of an expert in court proceedings. That's why all the time we've been pointing out that art is the only way to find a market value. In this case and land values for regular use of the facility. I know that you are aware of this, and unfortunately we have one problem that is currently in force by two laws, and these two laws regulate the land institute for the regular use of the facility. One is the law on planning and construction that says in Article 70 what land is for the regular use of the facility, and another is the Law on the founding of property-legal relations which it also says – there is land for the regular use of an object that is significantly larger than that defined by Article 70. The law on planning and construction. That's our objective problem. But let's start with a practical example, and that's why I can't agree with my colleagues from the Democratic Party. We must always bear in mind that there is this land for regular use of the facility, if the cadastrian plot is 600 meters square, I am going to go to the distinguished Minister of Section 3, which gives the mathematical surgery how we come to the surface, so this mathematical operation doesn't fit in to the actual state in certain cases, and here's why. If the catastrian plot has 600 metres of square and the right to use on the catastrian plot has an enterprise that is privatised, it means an enterprise now covered by the provisions of this law. This company has four facilities on this catastrian plot, a large building manufacturing and below each object is a 100 square area. Four objects per 100 square meters and 400 square meters. At our place in Užica is a degree or index of busyness of the Catastrian pitch 0.5. It means 50%. Fifty percent, the distinguished secretary of state is 600 square meters, 300 square meters. If we apply this mathematical operation that you suggested here, we get to the next one. Four hundred squares under objects divided by 300 squares, which means the index of occupancy that is 1.3 and finally how riverly in this article we multiply with the area of plot times 600 that is 780 squares, so that's more than 600 squares of cadastar plot. Here we come to an objective problem, a problem that we will then have a larger area of land for regular use of an object compared to the surface of a catastrian plot. It's the same problem, it's the same nature as I showed it in the case of a court ruling of a court of law, where the skill found that 1,000 meters of square land for land for the regular use of the facility and about 200 meters of square land is below the platform. There's a problem that can happen in practice multi-ciplimate, and that's how we're going to get into so-called. negative or negative indicators. So how are we going to reduce the higher value than the lower value and get the fee? There's no charge. Simply, we in the SPS parliamentary group consider no, there is no reason to delete, but there is reason to reshape in terms of significantly better mathematics. Why are we pointing this out? Simple and logical reason. No one can expel or eliminate as the legal institute of land for the regular use of the facility. The land for land for the regular use of the facility is either land under the facility, or in the gauges of the facility, as well as the land needed for its regular use for both access and maintenance and for everything else. That is why the amendment is not acceptable, is it also eliminating the land institute itself for the regular use of the facility. But what I've pointed out is absolutely factually correct and this problem will arise. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32211	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32212	So, first of all, about your amendment itself and, among other things, the example of Rockets, etc. And the platform. So, we've accepted an amendment that refers to self-experience. Of course it will be, if you saw it, it's accepted, and it's geodetic professions, so we put it on. Regarding this second part of the problem, as you discussed in principle the index, so you take the index of busyness and plan and my colleagues here can calculate to see if that's exactly what you just said. Allow me, give me some time. But it certainly takes the index of busyness. That's what we said when we had the debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32213	On what basis, Mr. Bozovic? After the amendment, but you have to wait for the order. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, although I agree that this was an interesting question – whether it can be more than the maximum area per occupancy index prescribed would be logical to make it the maximum size that can be found under objects to formally function. I didn't want to answer that, although I admit it's interesting. He doesn't know if there are any cases like this. I have reported for what has been presented as an argument for the eventual adoption of this amendment to Article 8. The argument is, if I remember correctly, what Article 8 refers to is a vast majority of the land that is under this law, and that, when this measure is applied, is proposed to Article 8 to completely eat that billion and 400 million. Page 17 of the accompanying material, the table in which this number is introduced a billion and 400 million and writes nicely in the signature of the table – calculation, means one more orientation, is the assessment, carried out for construction land. Article 8 refers to the construction. It's not the same first and it can't combine one kind of convenience with another, but if this was a vast majority of the total built, look at Table 1. Other species – area in hectares of total 5.142.42. See the table for built building land the same – other species, total 168. If 168 is a vast majority compared to five thousand hundred and something, then this grudge was good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32215	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32216	Thank you, Mr. Becic. What I was worried about so I came forward for the third time in this same amendment is the thing that Minister Mihajlovic said earlier, that she would only calculate something that my colleague had just claimed was not so. So you're proposing a bill and you haven't even calculated how much money you're going to lose for the citizens of Serbia and how much you're going to damage the budget, and you're just doing it right now. The law needs to be passed, you know what...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32217	Mr. Bozovic, I can't let you do this, you didn't get a line, and you're not talking about the amendment. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic and Aida Ćorovic. Here you are, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32218	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Prime Minister, together with my colleagues, I have submitted this amendment to Article 8 and above all, it refers to harmonisation, the terminology of compliance with the Law on Planned Construction and the Law on State Time and Catastrophe. After this debate, it seems to me that this attempt and good intentions are something that is a cosmetic change compared to what we had today as a debate. I think there's a reason for adopting this amendment, but I'm sure it wouldn't essentially change this law. I think this debate has made it clear what kind of law we are going to have, unless there is an accepted amendment between colleagues Balša Bozovic and counterpart Olga Batic in article 6 or in relation to the previous and current article 8, if they are not adopted, we simply see what kind of law we will have and what quality we will have after the adoption of this law. And the fact that some fellow MPs have objected to what DS MPs are calling for suggestions from the Anti-Corruption Agency is something that is their right, of course, but I really can't understand that this passion is going to DS MPs, because they only interpret what is said in the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which clearly says that these members 7, 8, 9 and later, Article 18, are opening up a huge space for corruption if our National Assembly adopts this law. And that's the point. The essential question is also that we hear what financial effects are expected after the adoption of this law. It's about a billion and 400 million euros. So that's the second largest amount we mentioned here in the Republic Assembly. I will remind you, the first largest was three billion euros for the "Belgrade on Water" project and you were the actors of the signing of the agreement. So later it turned out to be about 300m euros, back to these billions and 400m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32219	Mr. Ciric, with all due respect, I let you go for two minutes and 30 seconds and you never mentioned the amendment you submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32220	I mentioned it, of course I mentioned it. So, I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32221	You're talking about "Belgrade on Water", you're talking about anything...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32222	I was talking about Article 8, so, Article 8, which is the subject of the Agency's proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32223	You spoke of some other amendments submitted by the MPs, not yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32224	... for the fight against corruption, which says that Articles 7, 8 and 9 are just opening up a big space for enormous corruption if we adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32225	Mr. Kiriq, you don't understand. You were able to report under Article 7, under Article 8, which was submitted by another MP, to talk about these amendments, and you now need to explain your amendment, Mr. Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32226	Here I'll remind you that we're on Article 8 and you said that, 7, 8 and 9. Eight is between 7 and 9, so this is Article 8, the amendment to Article 8, which the Anti-Corruption Agency spoke of as a space that opens up the possibility of significant corruption in reducing the estimated market value. It's very important to say. That's not my opinion, I'm passing on what the competent institutions are saying and I think we should be prepared to hear it. I really think it would be the most logical if, after all the dilemmas that we had and the MPs of the ruling majority, we had an amendment from Mr Dragan Jovanovic that spoke precisely about the revenues that would be made by this law by local self-government or the Autonomous Province or by the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that is the essence. Who will be responsible if this level of revenue is not realised at 400m euros and 400m euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32227	Mr. Kiriq, I still remind you not to talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32228	That's exactly the point. I call on the Deputy Prime Minister to withdraw this law, I think that would be the most logical. I think it would be the simplest and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32229	Mr. Ziric, we're not talking about the law in principle, we're talking about your amendment to Article 8. Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One note, very short, can't be shorter. Look at the argument that we received from the Government, the amendment was not adopted because it seems to suggest exactly what it is and in the bill of law in that position to which the amendment applies. Now you must decide, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not to support what is proposed. If you don't support and speak against it, why are we proposing the same thing ourselves and still standing up to defend it? This is getting weirder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32231	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32232	Gratitude for understanding and recognising the problem that has been identified by the amendment because we have indeed managed to do something in practice now that is perfectly logical, which is that the surface beneath the objects, especially when the issue of an internal traffic station, and even any other object, can only be an expert in the geodetic profession because it is exclusively in its professional competence. It cannot be in the professional competence of the construction profession experts, therefore indeed a respected minister's gratitude for identifying in the same way as the SPS parliamentary group, a problem that could in practice exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32233	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkov and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32234	Dear Minister, I'm quite sure you're as tired as we all are about today's debate, but if we just focus a little on this proposal that I've made, I'm sure you'd appreciate the amendment that we've tabled. In the third position of this member, we have suggested that there is a problem with determining the time in the sentence when it is said – according to a request for conversion, the authority responsible for property law etc. Jobs, as a member goes. We have suggested that instead of the word “on request”, the word “conversion requests” is solved by the Authority, etc. As for this second position and the provision that the evidence prescribed by Article 8. should be deleted from this position, we expected that in the debate that was held today at this session, you would respect our objections, that you would respect what we said about Article 7.8. pi 9. as a source of possible corruption, that you would take into account all the arguments that we have made, pointing to the fact that there are no conditions, criteria for the authorities of the local administration to implement this law, how they will issue solutions, when they will charge, etc., that you did not pay attention to all the problems involved in reducing the market value of construction parcels, etc. So on that basis, we asked for this article 8 to be deleted. Given that this is not appreciated, then we are having a problem with the fact that this proposal is likely to remain, but this member, or attitude 3 that we talked about, I think it is justified and if you and your associates looked at this argument and heard our argument, then he would certainly be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32235	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, today I have listened carefully to the presentations of DS MPs and so far I have not responded to the word, but what I want to point out is that the Government is absolutely right not to accept this amendment. With all the noise and anger of DS lawmakers trying to explain to Serbian citizens that this is some terrible law, behind which some of the terrible intentions of the SNS are hidden to carry out corruption, to make someone rich, to allow some tycoons some rights that do not belong to them, they, of course, failed. What they also failed at, it is to explain the amendment to Article 10(3). Mr. Jovan Markovic tried to miss the explanation of this amendment, so he returned to Article 8. You, Mr. Chairman, didn't warn him, but it doesn't matter. This is about one fundamental ignorance of this matter in a purely legal sense. I don't know how many lawyers there are in the DS parliamentary group. I have no doubt they are of quality, but then I am surprised why they did not explain to Mr Markovic that this conversion procedure, or, Serbianly speaking, is turning the right of use into the right to property is a special administrative process. If you look, if I'm not mistaken, Article 3. The general administrative procedure law, it says well - on everything that is not regulated by the laws governing special administrative procedures, applies the norms of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This is the norm from the General Administrative Procedure Act. So, the competent authority solves on request, and it does not solve the request itself. So you're not right, you're not right, you're not right, you're not right, you're not right, you're not right, you're not right. Therefore, it shall be settled on request or upon request. So the government was absolutely right to refuse this amendment of yours. The amendment is not a good thing, and it seems to me that here, except, of course, cheap day-to-day politics, there is no fundamental knowledge of this matter in the legal sense. You've been here forever repeating how someone is trying to commit corruption, how Milan Beko wrote this law, etc. You do not know the laws in force in the Republic of Serbia, I say responsibly, except for trying to discredit the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its attempts to get Serbia out of the crisis that you have brought her into. You are absolutely not deeply involved in the problems of this law and of this matter. Where good luck that this law may not have had to enter the assembly procedure, that Serbia has been a legally regulated state since 2000, a state, a well-organised state, has largely not faced this problem. We are, and now we're trying to solve this problem. We're trying to solve a problem called - the Constitution says there's property rights on construction land, but in practice we have cases that this right cannot be exploited. It's constitutional law. The government has now proposed a model allowing entities to exercise the right given to them by the Constitution. That's the essence of this law. Everything else is an attempt by the DS that has brought Serbia into a crisis, which has not solved not only this problem, but no problem that Serbia faces back 15 or 20 years, to say -- this is the fault of the government of the Republic of Serbia and it is the fault of the SNS. Today, I listened to the ex-species presentations of the former regime that Aleksandar Vukic was guilty and SNS that we had not solved the problem in sports societies or sports clubs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32237	Mr. Martinovic, please, in the last sentences you have now come out of the framework of this amendment and please return or finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32238	So I'm going back to the amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has offered solutions based on the Constitution and based on other laws that apply in the Republic of Serbia. I did not answer today for a word when some former regime MPs claimed that the government was wrong to say that these provisions of the law, or the provisions of this law, cannot be amended by the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. And you are today insisting on the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013, which I deeply respect, but that decision does not entitle any of the members of the proposed law in any way. But you have one other decision of the Constitutional Court, which says that the coherence of the legal system in the Republic of Serbia must be taken into account, which means that the laws must contain solutions that are mutually harmonised and the government has said well - it is the so-called Lex special, so special law. General Law, roof law is the Law on Planning and Construction. This is a special law, so it's a special law. We cannot allow what is arranged systematically to be delegated in one way by law, which is in fact merely trying to enable what is defined by the Constitution, the Constitution that has been in force in the Republic of Serbia since 2006. So here from the legal point of view it's all clear. Now, the other thing is that you're trying to play some parties in some other countries, so from a party of liberal-capitalistic orientation overnight you become a party of left-wing orientation or at least you're experiencing yourself, but of course, Serbian citizens know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32239	Mr. Martinovic, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32240	So here's the thing completely clear and the government of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely right to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32241	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, on what grounds do you want the word? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. ) You have the right to a replica, your name is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32242	Dear Chairman, I am truly sorry that Mr. Martinovic has not been involved in this discussion before, if he has already talked about which law is older, which is binding and which is the roof law. I think it would be very good for Parliament and in general to consider this bill if it had been included in the first article and that we were talking about the problem that happened, which is that in the Law on Spatial Planning Article 102 is mentioned one date, so, May 2013. Today, we need to comply with this law with the Law on Planning and Construction, and we have an immediate problem. I think it would be good to have Mr. Martinovic involved and told us how to solve this problem and how to replace the 10 years that are missing here, 10 years where essentially the problems of privatisation, of conversion, etc. It would be very good if we heard what his proposal is today to avoid this problem of harmonising those terms and dates. Let me remind you, in Article 102. The Law on Planning and Construction is one date, one year 2013, and the law that we are considering today stands in 2003, and those dates need to be harmonised. It's been 10 years. As for teaching here about who did what and how he did, I think that you, Mr. Martinovic, along with your colleagues and this ministry will only see how wrong you are that you have proposed this law at all. Serbia's citizens will also see how damaged they are because they will not be able to apply this law in the next period and will not be able to charge the revenue you mentioned today in the debate two days ago in the debate. As for the amendments I have proposed, it is not true, you did not pay attention that I suggested in Article 10(2) that the regulations laid down in Article 8...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32243	Thank you. Time's up. The 11th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32244	Thank you. I am pleased that the proposer understood the need for the amendment to become an integral part of this bill, and in addition, since the text of the amendment all have ahead of them, I will not read, but what is an essential need and what many citizens have expressed their concerns, and in this respect, it is the property that has been nationalised and which is the subject of the procedure before the Agency for Reconstruction, the essence of this amendment is that if the same parcel and the subject is required in the process of conversion, the subject of the restitution must be concluded on the termination of the proceedings in conversion until the end of the recovery procedure is legally completed. After all, I believe that such a solution has completed the proposed text of this bill. Once again, thank you to the Proposer for his adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32245	The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and, together, MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32246	Thank you, Mr. Becic. We predicted that the position to be called to Article 8 should be deleted because we expected the Minister in the debate to accept our amendment to create, free of charge, property rights over that land on which buildings were built for those people who came to these facilities in suspicious privatisations. However, since the minister did not accept it, we are left to ask the National Assembly and MPs of the ruling coalition to accept our amendment in the voting day, which should automatically accept the amendment to Article 11. As we have said, we believe that Article 8 and all the consequences it produces further in the law, both Article 11 and the next time something is mentioned in the law, which we propose to delete, is actually unthinking this law, and that instead of the name of the law that is now read – the bill on the conversion of property rights to building land with compensation, it actually means that we have a bill on the conversion of rights of use to property on construction land without compensation. Given that no amendment to Article 8 has been accepted, or that the minister has not accepted, we call on the ruling majority's MPs to accept the amendment to Article 8 and the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32247	The 12th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and, together, MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanović Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, therefore, despite the acceptance of the amendment to Article 12, which refers to the procedure for the conversion of rights of use into property, means one procedure, refers to the procedure of submission of documents and reads that, after the entry of Article 11, which indicates the objection which resolves the municipal, or city major units of local self-government on whose territory there is a building land which is subject to a fee-based conversion, we add – if requested, means after the procedure has been implemented, it does not state that the period left for payment is deemed to be made on a one-off basis, and which the competent authority is obliged to teach the applicant to require when leaving the deadline for a statement. In addition to the government's acceptance of this amendment, we will vote against the law. It is an important amendment, but the essence is in art. Eight and 18. Article 18 goes, so we'll talk about it a little bit more. In addition to the accepted amendment, unfortunately for me, we will vote against the law, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32249	The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and, together, MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32250	The President-in-Office, the objective of this amendment was to point out all the harmfulness of this law which is being examined in these members concerning the rights of local administrations and their obligations, or their actions under the application of this law, and to point out that the first three positions of this member may be controversial. So, the relationship we explained for Articles 7, 8 and 9, so Article 12, I didn't have a chance, I answered for the debate, you didn't see it, and this Article 13 is very important. You, in interpreting the Anti-Corruption Agency, have several parts relating to this particular issue, which relate to this member and explicitly the Agency says that here, according to these actions, public authorities are given discretion when deciding on this issue. If you allow someone in the process of reducing the market price of building land to choose options to get various benefits, to come into a position to buy land later, then you have an unequal position among those who compete, or those who act under this law. It's our suggestion that these three attitudes be deleted and it's tied to it. If you had a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013 that says that giving on wars and giving on discounts is wrong, then it should have been applied in this law and here it is just being warned that someone who submits an application can have problems because there are no conditions under which units of local administrations and competent authorities prescribe measures and there are no rules on how these authorities issue solutions. So, in case you have a real estate, or not built building land that has some business space and hall in its composition, an object that has a space next to it that belongs to the operation of that facility, then you have the conduct of organs that can interpret the law as they like. I think that in this case, the Constitutional Court, which in 2013, declared members of the Law on Planning and Construction unconstitutional may also, under this law, declare itself in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32251	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32252	Thirty seconds will do. Therefore, Article 13 and Article 2, 3 and 4 to be deleted. First, a few things, that the Anti-Corruption Agency believes the problem is that it offers a 30% reduction does not consider it a problem, but stresses that justification should be considered, but does not say that it is something that cannot be found in the law. Let's be clear here. That the Constitutional Court's decision says that giving privileges is unacceptable, it does not say, but says the exact opposite, and that's what we've been talking about today. Okay, we'll do it again. Last but not least. If it's not clear to anyone that a one-time payment is a good thing and it's supposed to be stimulated, that it's something that might just fit, then why delete attitudes that define the issue of payment security? If we haven't deleted Article 1, which predicts the wars, then why delete the payment security? Not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32253	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32254	Madam Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13, which says that all those who invest in cash, means money for conversion, can receive a discount or a 30% reduction. I believe this law will stimulate legal persons who have land now for use and who will build. They will go first after the adoption of this law into the story of conversion. Of the 5,500 hectares this law will cover in total, I have to mention once again, and that's what I was saying in the tide, doesn't mean everyone's going to rush to make the conversion right away. I mean, and here I agree with my colleague Orlic, who spoke earlier on, that we must further stimulate legal persons, and we can do so if we give them a discount, which is 50% on the amount that is determined, which will be determined, which will be determined by local self-governments, or by the assembly of the municipalities of Serbia. Why does this matter, too? So, of the money that will be collected, 50% will go into the budget for the compensation of the people to whom the country was taken away after World War II, or for the restitution. But once again I have to mention the important thing, which is that all the people who took part in the privatisation, whether we're here in these political disputes, are we talking about whether they're like this or they're like that, they've already bought that land once. The local tax administration will assess the market value of the land to which conversion will be paid. So once again, let me mention - the market value of the land. Also, I have to because of my colleagues who spoke in the afternoon, that is, this afternoon's part that we are already discussing amendments, that all cities and municipalities that are in the first two categories of development will absolutely not be able to give any additional discounts and when it comes to so-called. State aid. For this reason, I also think that I should point out once again that this amendment of mys for a 50% discount for cash payment should be accepted, because I think that this would further stimulate people to get this conversion process done as soon as possible, to make it as effective as possible, and by that means I would have to use that term, and it would have to detached the company from one side to invest more, and on the other, and that the heirs of the family that expects the restitution would still get somehow fair compensation, that is, money for that land that is nationalised which is now going to go into conversion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32255	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Balsa Bozovic, and with the correction of MP Olgica Batic. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32256	Thank you, Your Honor. Namely, the reason why this amendment is not accepted, as stated in the explanation, is that it is not accepted for the reasons set out for not accepting the amendments of MP Zoran Zivkovic to the same member of the bill. Namely, this is what I have proposed to delete in this Article 13 and its point 4 of point 2) and (3). So it's about alternative security funds. Point 2), which is a mortgage on an object worth at least 30% more than the total amount of outstanding wars in favour of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or the local self-government unit and point 3) - a stateless pledge on movable matters, in accordance with a regulation that is regulated legally on mobile matters entered in the register. I think another solution should be taken here. I accept that the amendments may have and should, of course, not be accepted as they are, but here, as explained above, it is said that my amendment was not accepted for the reasons given for not accepting the amendment of counterpart Zoran Zivkovic, in order to prevent the delivery of payment security when payment is made to wars, which would cause adverse consequences for construction land owners in public property. I, as well as any member, cannot observe it in isolation, but I like to observe it in the field with the other members, primarily in this case with Article 17, which regulates the registration of property in a public book on the records of immovableity and rights on them. What is the one thing that I personally find the most controversial and that I think could be better arranged? As I have already pointed out in the debate in the principle of gaining property rights with us is related to the book. In Article 17, you are asked to provide for the entry, therefore, for the acquisition of the right of property the confirmation of the competent authority for the payment of the first war is sufficient. I don't think that's enough, at least not in this way how these points define the means of security alternatively set up that I've read for that reason. So, a person who hasn't paid a full price is actually credited, and it's nothing more than credit. Imagine the situation if, in this way, he laid down some means of security as they were set up in the proposed solution, what happens if he sells that parcel immediately and later stops paying a fixed fee, and the funds of the mortgage are set up like this and stateless supplies, which in no way and the security of its charges can you provide, because there is absolutely no what will be in such a situation? As soon as this can be brought back into connection with what is foreseen in the other members of this bill, I am primarily thinking of insisting that 50% of the conversion funds will go to the Restitution Fund. I allow that perhaps such a provision should not have been deleted as I suggested, but I think there was some different moderation where alternative security funds could have been better provided. I don't speak irrevocably of a bank guarantee, it's quite clear to me as defined and defined, but I have a questionable mortgage and a stateless credit, and for the reason I've mentioned it because if you look at the fact now, The 13th and 14th is clear that it will simply not work, at least it will certainly produce problems in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32257	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32258	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministerial, respected guests and respected citizens, amendment to Article 13 paragraphs 2 and 3 we suggest that they be deleted for the simple reason that, like most of the things in this law, they are inexplicably defined and leave the possibility of various abuses. And this is not the first case of this type, but he is just saying that the proposed text did not specify who determines in which procedure, or verifies the value of the facility over which the mortgage is established. With that in mind today, we have had the opportunity to hear that various technical mistakes have been subdued in this bill. Some cost Serbia 1.4 billion euros, some cost exclusively corruption and abuse. I think it's a very bad way to communicate with those who have these interests, which is, of course, the state of Serbia and the citizens of RS, and I think the best solution is to delete this member so that at least a little bit of repair is possible when it comes to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32259	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Members of the 15th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32260	I answered. Because my microphone's on, you gave me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32261	I didn't give you my word. You weren't in the system. Only now did Mr. Jovan Markovic answer. I've moved on to the second amendment, so... Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32262	You are in pain because of "Luke Belgrade", I understand. That's already your problem to explain to the citizens, not mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32263	The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Bozovicu, the microphone has remained on since the previous amendment. So you didn't turn off the microphone. Here you go. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32264	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, in Article 15(2), is talking about a complaint about a solution set out in Article 14 of this Law and that the Ministry of Finance's responsibility solves these complaints and I felt it was good to set a deadline. In this proposal, I gave it 30 days to resolve these complaints in the second degree, and I wanted to point out that one of the major problems that arises in the bill is deadlines. The time limits set for the conduct of the authorities at local level and for the appeal and for the determination of the prices of real estate, etc. Not defined in a good and good way. I think there will be words and speeches in some other members later on. What I wanted with this proposal to correct in some way is an injustice relating to the relationship first of all between this government and this state towards the citizens of RS who have been waiting two, three or four years in another degree in their complaints for solutions from the respective ministries. In the past, the deadlines that were high and proper were not set, and these deadlines that we proposed today, I think they were appropriate. What is a big problem is an administration that, in this case, by my assessment, is very unprofessional and that will certainly compromise this proposal that was in the interests of the citizens and in the interests of the people. It remains up to us to see how much this member will be applied to practice, because I think this is a period that is adequate to the needs of people, but also, given what kind of debate this debate has been and given what the proposal for this law is and how you have responded to our amendments, I expect that in practice this proposal will be very difficult to implement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32265	Thank you. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32266	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, I am talking about article 15, which speaks about the right to appeal to a solution to the right to use as property rights, and you said in Article 15. – a complaint may be filed against a solution under Article 14 of this Act within 15 days of the date of delivery of the solution. An appeal to a solution set out in article 14 of this law is resolved by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. We have proposed that it be the Ministry of Construction Affairs, because we believe that the resolution in the second degree of appeal for the solution to the conversion should be entrusted to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, as it is responsible for the supervision and enforcement of the law. We don't understand why you've defined yourself to be the Ministry of Finance. We are not satisfied with the answer you gave us, and we think you should reconsider our proposal for an amendment until the moment of the vote, in order to accept it and your Ministry is competent in the second degree.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32267	Thank you. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32268	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister, we propose that the amount of compensation determined by Article 14 of this Law be paid in respect of 50% in favour of the Republic of Serbia, as in your proposal that you have made here in the Assembly, but that 50% of that fee is paid in favour of an autonomous province or unit of local self-government, depending on the holders of property rights on building land. Although your refusal to adopt Article 8 of the expected revenue from this law and, in that sense, the amount of the land conversion fee will be much less than the 1.5 billion that you announced you would have, we believe that however units of local self-government or autonomous province, depending on whose land it is, should receive a certain percentage of the fees that will be paid for that conversion. As you may be aware, we have recently changed the Law on Public Property in this Assembly, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, in which most SNS people do not have the capacity to fulfil all their obligations under the law that was originally adopted and therefore the application of the Law on Public Property has been delayed. We believe that although we have had the opportunity to hear from other ministers that there are some evil people sitting in these local self-governments who are obstructing the application of the law, they should be compensated. We suggest that for the Restitution Fund other sources of income are found, and that these funds, although I say significantly reduced, because you give a large part of the land to tycoons, are given to local self-governments or an autonomous province.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32269	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32270	I'm surprised by your amendment. You practically rule out old owners and you don't want to, or you don't think that any of the possible incomes that will come should go to the Restitution Fund. I think this is really a serious problem for the Agency for Restitution, that is, for the Restitution Fund, because your amendment says - 50% in favour of the Republic of Serbia and 50% in favour of the Autonomous Province. We gave you an explanation and explained that it is very important to take care of the old owners and that we, besides the Agency for Restitution and the Restitution Fund, in the coming period and how to deal with the question of the old owners and we have to take care of it. So, I don't know what other kind of income you thought such a fund would fill, and we think this is exactly the right way, because it's precisely from these groups that are subject to this law that you can see that there will be income for the Restitution Fund. To me, it's a surprise that you, as a member group, don't think any of the only dinars of potential revenues to the Restitution Fund should go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32271	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32272	Your Honor, I think it's obvious that you did not correctly interpret this bill of ours and that you did not adequately consider our intention. Our proposal and our amendment that we have submitted primarily concerns undeveloped municipalities and local administrations that under this bill, precisely because local administrations in the previous three or four years have failed to fulfil their obligations under the Public Property Act and have not signed up as land owners, will not receive any revenue from the possible sale of construction land. According to this proposal, as requested, we believe that it is the obligation of the state to deprive all previous owners of the restitution process, i.e. to respect and that is the obligation of the state. That is why we have left in the proposal that 50% of the funds are directed directly at the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If you thought only from these funds, or this fund, would make up for all claims from previous owners, then you're wrong. We were just about to show that even part of the income you planned would not be realised, or that it would not belong to previous owners. Through this proposal, we wanted to point out exactly that problem that is being opened, that neither the AP Vojvodina nor the local administration will be able to make any revenue from the alleged money you plan to make. So, according to the proposal made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia earns 50% of the income, the majority of these revenues go to the Restitution Fund, but if the proposal you represented remains, local administrations will not receive any income, because they did not register as property owners in the previous period and will not have the right to compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32273	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I didn't want to interrupt you, I'm a little surprised, and in order for the public not to be confused, you said - your bill. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I meant the amendment. Yes, but you said your bill, so I didn't know what you meant. The 16th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32274	Thank you, Chairman. Like other colleagues, in the principle debate, I mentioned this member as very important and very important, because I noticed that this distribution of funds received by conversion, I must say, and I used that term in the principle debate, was unfair. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable minister and her associates for having managed, let me say, the strength and acceptance, hopefully accepted, my amendment with the correction. Just to be clear, he's referring to the part that needs to go to local self-government. With a previous speaker, respected Mr. Markovic, I cannot agree when he says that local self-government was not up-to-date and that only because of local self-government, the application of the Public Property Act is delayed. I run the Municipality of Topola who has done all this on an up-to-date basis, but the problem is with the Republic Property Directorate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32275	Mr. Jovanovic, please, you must talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32276	I'm sorry. To go back to the amendment, what's very important is the distribution of 50% of the funds to the Restitution Fund and I don't think the 50% of the funds should be touched in any way. Families, heirs deserve to receive compensation for what was taken from their ancestors, and therefore that part should not be touched. That is why in my amendment, I have proposed that of these 50% heading towards the Serbian government or the AP, 10% should be allocated to local self-government budgets. I think it's the least we can do, because local self-government will work maximum on applying this law. Their urgency will depend on the speed of implementation of this law. Therefore, it would be fair for local self-government to get one, so to speak, percent of these funds, and that's 10% and that's not much, but it is estimated that in the coming years some 600m euros on this side of the state's income will be covered by these funds. When looked at, it is about five or sixm euros that will blend into local self-government budgets. Once again, it's not much, but it's better than nothing. Therefore, I ask you to support this proposal of my amendment, which is very important, because I have already said that I have an official percentage that more than 90% of the property located in local self-government is led to the state of Serbia, or the Property Directorate, and therefore this second part of the member of this law, which is said to be divided into 50-50 by the Agency for Restitution, does not mean anything, because only about six to seven percent currently in Serbia has such property, which is catastrus-led to local self-government. That is why I believe that this amendment is beneficial and that it can bring a lot of good. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32277	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32278	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32279	Only by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32280	Replication to the gentleman's exposure... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32281	You don't have the right to a replica, you can only speak by amendment. Mr Jovanovic has been warned and has no longer mentioned you and has not mentioned you in a negative context, so you can only by amendment You have no right. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: Not by amendment, replica.]] (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: How come I don't have the right to mention me? ) Mr. Markovicu, Mr. Jovanovic mentioned you in just one word by case, not in a negative context. He was warned about it and returned to the amendment, and I don't think you have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32282	I thank you for your amendment. Of course, we accept 10% going to local self-government. Of course things can happen if local self-government owns land, it's 50% plus 10, and it goes very well. But, of course, in those other situations certainly 10% goes to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32283	Mrs. Mihajlović, if I understand, did you accept this amendment? Yeah. I find that Mr Jovanovic's amendment has been accepted by the government's representative. Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32284	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister and Honorable Guests, in Article 17 following Article 1 paragraph 1, added a new position of 2 which reads, quotes: "By virtue of the law of Article 14 of this Act, the land referred to in Article 6(1) of this Law in complexes is transferred to the public property of the units of local self-government, the Republic of Serbia or the AP Vojvodina, without compensation." Therefore, since land users are exempt from the obligation to pay land within the complexes provided for public facilities for public purposes, it is celery to assign this land to a local self-government unit, to the Republic of Serbia or to the AP Vojvodina already in the conversion process. If the Minister can explain to me why such a clear amendment is controversial and why it cannot be adopted, I would like to hear an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32285	Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. There's a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32286	We've already said we accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32287	You must accept as a representative of the government at this very moment. So I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the Committee's amendment to Article 17. (Gordana Comić, from the place: No Committee. Is something wrong, Mrs. Comic? This was an amendment to the Committee, and it was only determined that it was accepted by a representative of the government. The 17th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32288	Dear fellow Members of the People, Article 17 speaks of enrolment of immovableity in the cadastre. Article 3 tells me that, with the request for registration, proof that the fee has been paid or, if the payment is made to the wars, confirmation of the competent authority of the payment of the first war. We felt that this part should be re-formed and said – with a request for registration a judicial solution is delivered. In several members, we talked about the problems that happened because of the separate laws being passed. I think it was very logical and instructive that you listened to our proposal to pass a set of laws, meaning, and the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Conversion and the Law on Public Property and the Law on Legalisation and the Law on the Catastrophe. If you had so approached the solution to these citizens' problems, there would be no such failures, we would not have had dilemmas about the terms, there would be no overlapping of the various members and we would not have come into a situation where the laws in some parts or in some of their members are opposed. So our proposal had a very serious character, and you've defined yourself as going this way and we're coming to the point that citizens are still in doubt. So they're going to make a deal, they're going to pay off one war, or they're going to make a contract to pay some amount in full, and then they're going to go back from the counter to the counter, from the institution to the institution and prove they've made the deal. Our proposal simplifies things and predicts that a man who has concluded a contract and, for example, paid one sum, that he gets a valid solution in the authorities of the local administration, and with that solution goes into the cadastre, signs the contract and solves his problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32289	Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradić. Thank you. He has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment... (Blagoje Bradic, from the post: I responded by amendment. I've been waiting six hours to get my word. I answered. ) It's no problem, Mr. Bradic, you'll get the word, but I'm asking you when you read your amendment to sign up, because I can't wait for someone to come to the phone right now. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we have suggested that article 18 be deleted, and now I will explain to you, in these few minutes how long I have from the time of the parliamentary group and these two minutes after the amendment, why we think this article should be deleted 18. In our opinion, it dissuades the entire law if it remains in this form as proposed by the ministry, i.e. Mrs. Mihajlovic. He speaks of the right to lease on building land and says – persons referred to in Article 1 paragraph 2 of this law can enter and acquire property rights on building land, in accordance with this law, with the owner of the building land to conclude a contract on the lease of construction land of a single catastrian plot. It further says - the amount of the lease is determined by dividing the amount of the market value of the immovable property into 99 years and thus the amount obtained represents the amount of the annual lease. It further says - the lease agreement concluded in accordance with the provisions of this law constitutes an appropriate right to land within the meaning of Article 135. The law on planning and construction. I'm gonna stop here and explain in a few sentences what's being said in this article. This article says that all those companies that are in these five thousand and a few hectares, as the Ministers said, and who will enter the land conversion, have the option to choose that estimated value, minus, non-minor, under Article 8 and former members, decide whether they will pay in full and get 30% reduction in order to be able to register, and they need that entry to be applied to obtain a building permit on that land, or to go to 60 wars, or the ministry has made an alternative to going to 99 years of credit free from the state. This estimated value, which will be reduced by 30% if paid in cash, is likely to be paid by 99 years in 99 equal annual wars, estimated value of land. To be clear, to be understood by the citizens, it's like living in an apartment that costs 100,000 and having the opportunity to buy it, pay cash and pay 70,000 to become your property. It could be your property by paying it off in 60 months of war, or you could go in and pay off that apartment for 99 years at 85 euros a month. So, what are you going to choose? Ninety-nine years to pay for something we say should bring benefits to the Republic of Serbia of 1,460,000,000 euros. Well, we're not people turtles from the Galapagos, who's gonna welcome that? And in the law, Article 17 states -- by paying the first war, the right to legislate so that he can get a building permit. Well, what would someone pay in cash? Especially those who do business and who know a lot more and better how to handle money than we do. What would someone do? Which someone, instead of saying, would choose 70m euros in cash for some land, which they wouldn't choose, let's say I don't know a million euros a year for the next 99 years, so if someone welcomes it, they'll say whether it paid or didn't pay off. When he gets his ID, on the day of his first payment, the first war. What is even more interesting, the continuation of Article 18 says – the lease contract concluded in accordance with the provisions of this law constitutes an appropriate right to land within the meaning of the provisions of Article 135. The law on planning and construction. Well, it goes on to say, according to the registration of property rights on a building land used under the lease contract concluded under this law at the request of the tenant, a conversion may be made in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of this Act. That's terrible. Here, let me translate. So, I've rented land, I've got a building permit, I've built an facility, I've sold apartments because this isn't about factories, we're talking about attractive locations in the city, no one's going to build a factory in the city center, no one's going to build a factory at the Beneton place in Nis, but it's the most attractive location where apartments and business facilities are going to be made, it's perfectly normal. I sold the flats, and then I come to the Ministry and I ask for a reduction in the value of the area I built for me based on Article 8. And we're going to vote it out and we're defending it as something that's a developmental opportunity. Well, whose developmental chance? Whose developmental chance? We're filling the budget. What are we filling the budget with? What money? Credit? Because there's no alternative here that he has to buy. There's no alternative that if I don't want to get into the land conversion that I'm using to go to auction, someone else can buy it. Here's my will to choose whether I'm going to pay cash and give millions of euros or I'm going to put on a spoon, so how far do I get, so now, after me, let my people argue with the state at the time whether they're going to pay or not. I've been talking about 99 years. Well, even the Galapagos turtles can't experience it, let alone us. If you think it's okay for us to vote like that, then I don't know what we're doing here. Who are we helping? Who are we helping? What do we encourage? Whose money are we doing this to? So I ask that you honor our amendment, that we remove Article 18 and that this law makes sense. So whoever owns that property can buy it in cash, get a benefit 30% or pay it in 60 wars, get somebody to see the Fayduod of that money, for 99 years no one will see it. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32291	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32292	Now the income is zero, now there's no money at all, now it's not built, now nobody's hired, now none of it works, so zero. Just a second, the lease first of all isn't crediting like you said, it's a possibility to lease for 99 years, but every year, of course, there's a revolving of the amount that's being paid and far from the fact that lending is as free as you seem to be, I'm told. You didn't become the owner of the lease either. So it indexes like you said. Next, you ask who we're doing it for? Well, we work for the citizens of Serbia and we work for all those who need to work. I'll give you one more piece of information, I've given you information about it if it's built on one hectare how much you're going to do and what it's going to mean for the construction industry. If built at 500 hectares, it will certainly generate a billion-euro revenue from the construction industry. So that's why all this is done. That's why there's a bill like this at all, and there's or maybe it's a lot better to leave everything behind, so don't do anything and have, building land built or built, not built or not built at all, and that's how many years I still don't know. So our opinion isn't like that. Our opinion is that we should do everything possible to bring it in, to make the revenues, not only the revenues that we mentioned before that you and the government are being slowed down, that is, we as a representative of the government, but everything that should actually lead to a certain result, and the result is that the construction industry is working, that people are being hired to build here. That's why this law exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32293	Thank you. You don't have a chance to replicate. Mr. Risticevic, by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't understand the explanation of this amendment. In fact, a 99-year lease isn't a newspaper. With me in the municipality of Indjia, the former regime's most attractive location has been leased for 99 years, as an unbuilt building land in the city centre. To make a miracle even bigger, it was not built on building land but because it was built and that it was the property of the Republic of Serbia in such situations they needed the consent of the Republic Property Directorate and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to change the property's ownership, or to change its purpose because it was an alienation of property. In order to avoid it, they destroyed the buildings and turned the building land into unbuilt and thus leased it for 99 years. In a criminal way, they are from built building land belonging to the state of Serbia, in order to obtain the right to be issued by local self-government at 99 years of age, from built building land they have not built. To make the miracle even bigger, they claimed it was an unbuilt building plot... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32295	Mr. Risticevic, this is still for investigative authorities, so don't talk about the amendment. Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32296	It's a 99-year lease. I believe that their objections are not in place since the party of the former regime acted quite differently and I am talking about examples in the Indji municipality in practice as they did. Well... Wait a minute, where are you in a hurry, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32297	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Why did you shut me out? ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32298	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished minister and honored guests, the idea of this law, and I end today's debate, is not to turn the right to use into property rights with compensation, as the title of the law says. The idea is to turn the right to use into a long-term lease for 99 years. Ninety-nine years, the market price of land divided by 99 years gets an annual rent price. Why is that? Because there are no sanctions for those who do not submit a conversion with compensation. Because there's not even a deadline that anyone can and has to respect. What is important is that this way is bypassed in fact by law and that it serves only tycoons to play the bill and the law and Serbia and the state and the citizens and its interest and to conclude the lease for 99 years, instead of paying into the budget of the Republic of Serbia a certain amount of money, the market value of land. We believe that this is not in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and for this reason we have proposed an amendment that reads as "Deletes". He who concludes the lease contract will never have an interest in giving up the lease and taking the land with compensation into account. That's one of the basic reasons why we suggested erasing this amendment. Who does that belong to? It does not contribute to the state of Serbia and citizens, it goes to the owners of large enterprises and companies that have acquired in the robbery privatisation. It's Lucy Belgrade, so we understand each other completely and completely honest with each other. Unlike some MPs, I have the courage to say that and I am proud of it – Milan Beko is the one to benefit from this. Luka Belgrade is the most attractive land in Belgrade and will only benefit in this case. In Article 18, where it is actually regulated by the bill itself, the price of the annual rent, why will each tycoon be defined for this model? For two reasons – because it is cheaper than the conversion with compensation and other, because it avoids paying the property tax. I will remind you, in 2013, the ruling majority amended the Property Tax Act and freed the tycoons and that burden, just as it increased citizens. While all are better than those who are in power today, and than those who are their partners, those who eventually wrote this bill in some other places outside the government, citizens live much worse. The Democratic Party will fight with all its forces and forces, on its own behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary club, to file a constitutional appeal and I hope that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be respected by the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32299	Thank you. The word after the amendment is Alexander Jovicic. I apologize, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic has the word before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32300	I'll be brief. I have never heard the word "Beko" so many times as I have heard in these two days, in principle when we have debated and now, from the same MP. I don't know what kind of relationships you're connected to. I don't know Mr. Beck. I don't know anyone who works law by character or the work of certain people. That must have been done in the past, but this government doesn't. And let me say it again -- anything that gets paid, if we talk specifically about Lucy Belgrade, whoever owns it, will pay at market value, and when the government determines a port area, which no one has ever wanted to do before, so now this government, this port area will not be the subject of conversion, i.e., it is extremely from this law. So it won't belong to anyone who owns it. When we talk about the lease, let me repeat again – the lease is not lending. The lease is one of the options given by this law. If you looked at the reasons of the law, then you also have a simulation of us micronivo, for example, at 10 hectares of building land and the first group where, for example, Belgrade belongs, if there is a building land of 10 hectares, then the lease at an annual level would be 111,000 euros. So, if we're talking about the first zone. All of you have simulations, therefore, would be correct to at least read them before you comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32301	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32302	Thank you, Your Honor. Today, she marked the whole debate by the applicants of this amendment with complete untruth and one story that revolved in circles. What's important to emphasize when you talk about Milan Beck, since it's obviously a name that's been mentioned here a lot today, mentioned by those people, and Beko was in that party where you are today, which means he has nothing to do with us, he was a member of the party that submitted this amendment. That's the first thing I have to tell you. The second thing, speaking of tycoons, Milan Bek and others, I'm sorry, gentlemen, in 2014, Beko paid eight million taxes to this country four times more than in your time. You shouldn't have charged your taxes, let alone more. You talk all day long, tycoons, tycoons, tycoons. Do you miss them so much? At the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the tycoons wrote and implemented laws, edited everything possible in this system to be on their hands and that they could do whatever they wanted. This practice has stopped. This law aims to increase the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that no one, as in your time, gets a country in vain, or that it simply bows down to them. You've been saying today there's no fee here, and the title of the law itself says there is. We couldn't read anywhere that she wasn't here. There is only a reduction of compensation in those categories that are defined by this decision, which are undeveloped municipalities, municipalities that need to be helped. This law wasn't passed by ad hoc, as you brought it. For almost a year, discussions have been held in several cities – Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kruševac, Užice etc. The NGO sector took part in this. Also, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ministry, 137 municipalities in Serbia worked on the analysis, i.e. it was fully objectively analysed what this law could contribute in the coming period. You've been representing everything that hasn't been good in the law since 2009. Did it take you five years to see that you were not doing well and that you were not working for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? With this conversion law, we want to pump into the Republic of Serbia's budget money, also in the Restitution Fund, and solve what the problems have been in our country for 20 years. So don't mention tycoons anymore, because I said - find a tycoon, a name and a last name, which came or took something in this country during the Serbian Progressive Party. You can't find it. There's no such thing. But we can list dozens of those who, at the time of your government, were able to do so, who were appointed by governments and prime ministers who had actually served them, not the people. That's why we've come into such a catastrophic situation, because you've been talking all day, and it had nothing to do with the law or anything, that there's been a cut in wages and pensions. It is, respected citizens of Serbia, reduced salaries and pensions, thanks to those who did not know how to lead this country, who have ruined 650 privatisations, whose Law on Conversion served only, more specifically, on planning and construction, to enable both Beka and everyone else to do something in vain. That's why we're in this situation today. But Serbia is rising. We have a Prime Minister who thinks about his citizens, who really shows one great skill and as far as our region is concerned, how to make progress together and not always go back to the past, and also in economic terms, how to recover our economy. But to do so, it is necessary to endure these difficult measures that we have begun. You didn't have the guts to do that. You didn't have the courage to change our country. We have and therefore the citizens of Serbia support it. But don't send tycoons to us and to our backyard that weren't just in your backyard, they were sitting in your government and in the Assembly and in all possible ministries. What did Oliver Dulic contribute when we talk about construction, the country? You know exactly what he did. "Let's clear Serbia", i.e. clear the budget of the Republic of Serbia. There are no more people who clean the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We're cleaning up corruption. We are cleaning crime and we are struggling to ensure that the laws in Serbia are in line with European laws, that a wide range of all segments of our society that are relevant in the drafting of these laws participate and that, above all, this Assembly, together with all MPs, be the control role of how this law is implemented. That's the fundamental difference between your authority and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32303	Replica, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32304	Thank you, President of the Assembly. These attacks on the Democratic Party only talk about the anxiety of the ruling majority, they only talk about knowing for themselves how criminal this law is. I don't think it's written in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but in Lucy Belgrade, and you're aware of that yourself. We've tried to charge the tycoons for that land they've rescheduled from the ground to some other activity, you're giving it to them today. The lease avoids the payment of the conversion with compensation, renting itself to 99 years completely destroys the meaning of the bill itself. One point of four billion euros is something that will eventually be denied by the state and the Restitution Fund. I think after all of this today's debate, it's been very tough, not to the end, principled on some side, but in any case, I think we're ending up so it's already clear to everyone. Most rulings have a certain interest here while the people of Serbia are living worse and worse, they are living better and better. Thank you. (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32305	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32306	Yeah, just one thing, a few things. Probably the truth hurts you, that's your problem, of course, but I also have to say that I'm really opposed to a sentence that I didn't react to for the first time, but now I really have to react, those sentences that the law didn't work in the government, that the law was working on anyone who did. I really don't know, I repeat again, your relationship with the gentleman mentioned, but I know very well that such relationships with anyone does not exist in the Serbian government, especially in this ministry. The law was made in the ministry, the law corrects, unfortunately, your mistakes and let them remain mistakes in the past, this law is there to bring good, not only to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but to bring good to the construction industry from Serbia, because it will generate very high revenues. Please don't insult the government of Serbia, and don't insult the members of the government, and don't say that something was done outside the government of Serbia, because this government really works completely different from all your governments, and I wouldn't really go back to how you did the law, because if you did it the right way we wouldn't have this law here in the Assembly today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32307	You're looking for a replica, no, because it's not personal to you, so it can be authorized by this point to seek or the head of Parliament According to the amendment, yes, but wait just because Alexander Jerkov and Vladimir Orlic wait longer and then you. [[Alexander Jovičić, from the place: I didn't mean the replica, by amendment.]] Do you agree? (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Yes. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32308	Thank you, Madam President. Well, after Article 8 is proposed, as we see it will also be adopted, that for the land on which something was built no compensation, i.e. that compensation is reduced for that land on which something is now built. With Article 18, even those who would otherwise have to make that conversion because they had nothing built on construction land, by actually allowing them one, I would say, very easy and choice between whether the entire sum would pay immediately or perhaps in 99 years, and that their rights remain absolutely the same as if they had made that conversion. My question to the minister is exactly that - which is why anyone would make a land conversion if they could buy it for 99 years and what Mr. Bradic says in 99 years, some of his descendants with some state of their own who knows how to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32309	Thank you. Since your time has run out of groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32310	Thank you. We're told we have more time. It won't be the first time you haven't told us the truth, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32311	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32312	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, as for this amendment and the applicant of this amendment, I'm sorry that we couldn't see in this amendment any constructive proposal except for every single mention of a man named Milan Beko and for that, of course, we can't even discuss it, and we're just about to accept this amendment. I have asked only a concrete question and I ask for that answer, and it is because of the truth towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because we will not allow anyone in any way simply soiling the face and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS. If you were so disciplined and you were so brave and you say that in your time you could do whatever you wanted, I just don't know how they came up, but since you became too brave afterwards, how is it possible that from 2008 to 2012, for example, that same man you've been talking about paid only two million euros in taxes all day, and only in the first six months of 2014 four times more? It is proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not afraid of the tycoon you created, which you have allowed to do in this country whatever they wanted. We have nothing to do with the tycoons or we want to have them. We want laws that will bring prosperity to our country. We want laws that will bring income to our country, that is, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we will then share that income in both local self-government and socially endangered categories and everything else that our country needs. I'm impressed and it's amazing to me that someone from a party who's been in power for 14 years every other word is "tycoon, corruption and crime" and that only leads me to one thought, which is that you miss those three components very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32313	The minister wants to replicate Aleksandri Jerkov because she asked questions directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32314	You asked why someone would go out on a lease and not exercise property rights? The lease and property aren't the same thing, they're not equal rights. If you have the right to property, it's the widest possible form of right. So, you become the owner of the building land, and that's why you have the right to do everything that's allowed by law and you've become the owner if you're a tenant, and you can't lease it, and you can't do it without having any other rights. Therefore, it is much better and more acceptable for everyone to own than to be a tenant. If you are a tenant you are not the owner but are only a tenant and you pay your market value fee, revolarized every year and nothing is given to you and you do not become the owner as long as you are in the lease.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32315	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32316	Thank you, Madam President. So you're going to be really very brief, because, yes, we could really underline and explain in detail that the lease is absolutely not the same as obtaining and enrolling property rights on land and it is also seen in this article and that it is proposed precisely so that even where a certain time is needed, where this conversion will not be realised immediately, however, somehow achieve income in the meantime. How? Through the lease mechanism. So all of this is designed so that there's a benefit of what it doesn't have right now, but I would still spend these thirty seconds as far as I'm defining one other thing for the fact that this is one wonderful indicator of the level of seriousness, level of understanding and even awareness of what is being done in this room today by the promoter. There, I think, is still in the vice president's room who announced this amendment. The word is, it will correct me if I make a mistake, about the amendment to Article 18 proposed by MP Balša Bozovic, and we have heard from the promoter here about how the lease is a disastrous solution that all deprives is that it should be completely thrown out, article 18 to delete, etc. Then you look and what is this amendment to a member of the 18th People's MP and you read – He suggested that in paragraph 4, number 99 be changed by 18. Then you look at the text that that actually means, you see that he didn't even mention attitude 3 where 99 years of leases are spoken of, he left it, he's fine with it. He only changed the number 99 in Section 4 where the estimated annual war was. How? He's increased the man. It's not one ninety-nine now, it's one eighteen, and then in, say, 99 years, a man's gonna pay what? Between five and six times market value. This has absolutely nothing to do with anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32317	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32318	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will again set a parallel example between India and this proposal. So in India, land was leased for 99 years, it was once charged at the prices and there is no valorisation to increase it. Unlike what the party of the former regime in India did, this bill guarantees that it will not happen. Under number two, Mr Bozovic spoke here, each other's word was Milan Beko. I have to admit, I know a gentleman. I met a gentleman in 1993 at the Democratic Party headquarters when he ran a marketing campaign. No, I'm a little older. There's not a single member of the 1990s party here. So, I am responsible for saying that I met a gentleman at the Democratic Party headquarters in 1993 and that he ran a marketing campaign for them in those elections. Speaking of courage, I must say that courage is not only when you're not afraid of anything, but also when you're not ashamed of anything, which is the previous speaker I spoke of and confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32319	The word is by MP Balsa Bozovic, a replica because the Democratic Party is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32320	Thank you, Madam President of the National Assembly. However, it is a period when the Democratic Party's president was late Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. I think these charges only speak of Mr. Marijan Risticevic and he can be tried by citizens whether he worked in the last 15 years after 5 or 5 October in the interests of Serbian citizens or not. But to talk about the Democratic Party in such a way, I personally cannot, since I am authorized by this point of the agenda. If you want to be very honest, Mr Milan Beka has brought Mr Vesic to the Democratic Party, but not to be a member. Therefore, discuss this with those who are members of the SNS today. I don't want to go any further about it. I just want to say that it is incorrect and it is not the first time today to talk about the history of a political organisation, the oldest in Serbia, and that in this way it is talked about some people who may not even be able to answer some of the accusations, and on the other hand, that it allows defilement and distracts the public from today's very important law on whether someone brought this or that. So that's really not what we're interested in, and we're not gonna do these things. Citizens must know that this law is in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and of them personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32321	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32322	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you are all my witnesses here. I wasn't talking about late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. In 1993, he wasn't the prime minister. So he was the president of the Democratic Party. I was saying that I was a witness of that time and that I had met Mr Milan Beck at the Democratic Party's headquarters in 1993, as one of the opposition, that I had met him and that he was campaigning for the former regime and I stand behind it. If that is not true, I will resign, but if that is true, then I would ask the previous speaker to resign, but I think he has already confirmed my words when he said that Goran Vesic had brought him into the party. So it is unequivocally unequivocal that Milan Beko was in the election campaign, running an election campaign, campaigning marketingly, and this is most responsible in one election list, for one political party. So, it was confirmed that the mentioned was frequently named and Milan Beko was an integral part of the former regime's party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32323	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32324	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Can I get a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32325	Yeah, but I gotta do this now, and then you two.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32326	I just want to suggest something that we've been trying to throw out all day, it's a fact. No one has anything against Milan Beck, absolutely. I personally have nothing against him. I just want him to pay fairly for the land belonging to the Republic of Serbia. I wish him all the happiness in life, I wish him all the business success in his life, but I do not want the Republic of Serbia to be poorer by 400m or 500m euros, as much as it costs land in Lucy Belgrade. I want him to have more business success in the coming years than he's ever had in his life. I want him to go like never before, but all of this has to be paid. The Democratic Party, whoever brought him to DS headquarters, only says one thing, we have nothing against him personally. We are against the question of the interest of the Serbian state in this way. We're for it, let him build there whatever he wants, we don't care and we don't go into his business ventures, but we want the market value of the land to pay, and nobody gives it to him for free as a gift. That's what we want. If that's a lot, then you can condemn DS. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32327	Dear President, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, when one of the former regime's junior parties, when one of the DS pillars, such as Balsa Bozovic, knows so little about the history of his party, is more than regrettable, when he does not know that in 1993, the president was not the late Zoran Djindjic, but the president of the party's executive board, and the president of DS 1993 was Dragoljub Micunovic. So much for someone who doesn't even know the history of his party, let alone about values or what he's propagating or his party's politics. As far as Milan Beck is concerned, although this is neither the law nor his law, what I can say and what I will repeat, as my colleague Alexander said, and that is, Milan Beko paid an eightm-euro tax in Lucy Belgrade for six months 2014, eightm euros in six months, gentlemen. Unlike you, Mr Bozovicu, who advocates a fair payment of land, I would prefer that you advocated a fair tax payment, so that Milan Beko would pay a little more taxes from 2008 to 2012, and he paid two million euros in four years. Why didn't you charge him back then? Why didn't you try to pay fair? You were not allowed to establish the basis of the tax, let alone anything else. In six months, we have charged four times more taxes in Lucy Belgrade than you have in four years. in this way, you directly damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by your actions or inaction by over 30m euros. How many pensions is that, how much pay, how many doctors, how many cops? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32328	Time. You're replicating, just so I don't see that this law is dedicated to any individual, at least to any other name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32329	Thank you. It's not about the individual, it's about the individuals. So, what is very important is to say that the tax in Serbia is paid, but is paid by the citizens of Serbia, and by this law, when it comes to renting land for 99 years, after the changes and additions made by SNS in 2013, it is possible for tycoons that have leased land for 99 years not to pay the property tax. That's true, Mr. Granny. So Serbian citizens are higher property taxes, and they are exempt from property taxes. Belgrade has or may, according to Lex specialise, Article 17, have leased land and will not again pay land tax and land tax, and on the other hand, the tax is higher for citizens year by year. Instead of talking about what is in their interest and whether we can solve the property tax problem, you are today proposing to those who are the richest in Serbia that, if they rent land for 99 years, there is a tax on property. Now, that's not fair and it's not fair. You can say whatever you want, you can make it up, as it is about me personally and my family all day long, whatever you want. The truth is, the law is written for a few. I think the citizens know that very well. If you really care about Serbia, then don't vote this law. Here, we will support you in this and together with you we will vote against. But what you're trying to do and get off the subject and get citizens' attention to some whole 10th thing, I think that's what you tried to do today, but you certainly didn't do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32330	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32331	Dear Chairman, I appeal to Article 107 for Mr Babic's discussion and I expected you to react, but since you decided to keep quiet, I don't know if you heard what he said well, I decided that after Mr Bozovic's discussion, I do react. You probably didn't hear when Mr. Babic called Mr. Bozovic a hero.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32332	I heard. I asked the deputy secretary general here to find the exact meaning. It's not offensive. He'd react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32333	Is that not offensive to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32334	It's not offensive, and your subjective sense is something else. And what that word means is not offensive in our language. You can see that MP Bozovic did not object to it. That means a young man in full strength, let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32335	So, Madam Chairman, the reaction of the MPs on the other hand is exactly what kind of revolt and what impression you make of your decisions on the ruling majority. I, right to tell you, could never myself...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32336	I thank you. Please don't analyze people. Does this have anything to do with article 107 or not? As my fellow Members of my parliamentary group react, whether I am right when the word "young man" means – a young man in full strength, leave it to us, and you stick to Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32337	So they react exactly as they expect with your support to react. So they're laughing at what I'm saying. I could never give myself the right, say, to tell Mr. Jovic that he's a hero...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32338	Now, I'm going to thank you kindly, because you're not going to talk about article 107, but you're analyzing the order of MPs, I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32339	Is that not offensive to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32340	Thank you very much. I understand you kindly, 107. You consider me to have injured Article 107 because of the meaning of the word "young man". I read what it means in the dictionary, because I immediately asked for meaning and that's it. So, a young man in full strength. I don't find it offensive to say that I'm young in full strength, even though I'm not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32341	You haven't heard what's coming out...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32342	Thank you very much. Just sit down, we won't argue like this. Thank you very much. It's your right to vote on Article 107's injury. It's your right to seek. Are you looking for, Ambassador Markovic? No, I don't. ) (Jovan Markovic throws out of place. You're cursing me, it's no problem, but I don't respond to swearing. Replica, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32343	I thank you, Madam President, because people who have been used to speaking to us with "store", "storage", "sads", as Mr. Sutanovac and Mr. Zivkovic have done, are not used to getting "no" on the other hand, not getting an insult, but something that is both affirmative and good. A junior in my Shumadia, and I'm sorry that it's been a while for me when they called me that, because I belong now and in the years I'm called – middle age, but I'd like to be called a teenager, that means - a young man, a young man. Mr. Bozovic, that is. I congratulate him on his age and everything he's gained for all those years. So, don't complain, you'll be laughed at by your Puffs, when you think the hero is anything negative. You don't know your language. On the other hand, by applying the laws and laws that you have made and implemented, in Lucy Belgrade and Luka Belgrade, as a legal person, it is in the name of the compensation for the use of that land that you have sold to them... Do you know how much she's paid the state so far? Do you know, Mr. Bozovic, who are the most combative to charge all the tycoon obligations, whatever their names are? Zero dinar, Mr. Bozovic. Zero dinar. When did you privatise Luke Belgrade? What's the surface? When was she privatized? What year is she privatized?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32344	Thank you. Two minutes and four seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32345	Of course, for more than 10 years, you have never charged a fee for using building land in an attempt. So much for your desire to fill Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32346	The word has been given by MP Milija Miletic, by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32347	I thank you, President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would also talk about the amendment, with my normally not supporting colleagues across the street, is about eradicating this member of the amendment to the Law on Land Rental. I come from a small municipality called Srlig, which has a great need for investment. There's land that can be bought, but one that can buy land doesn't have enough money, so maybe he'd like to borrow land. If we delete this member of the law, this man can't take up land for hire, he can't invest and he can't hire new people. In this way, we will make it impossible for small and poor municipalities to develop, to employ people and to move forward. That is why I propose to my colleagues and fellow Members that this amendment is not accepted and that we vote for this law all, because I think in this way we will have the opportunity to provide investments, new jobs throughout Serbia, and I am potential, for one thing, small, poor municipalities, such as the municipality of Svrljig, such as the municipality of Bela Palanka, Merošin, Žitoraj, Gajin Han and other municipalities that are next to Nis and the Niš district. I will vote for this law. Normally, I won't vote for this amendment. As an MP for the United Peasant Party, I will vote in favour of all the laws proposed by our government headed by Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32348	National MPs Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorovic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member and member of 19a be added after article 19. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32349	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens, Article 20 speaks, these are transitional and final provisions, and he says – resolving the requests for conversion submitted until the date of entry into force of this law will be suspended, and applicants will apply for applications in accordance with the provisions of this law. We have suggested adding the words "within 30 days from the day of entry into force of this law". Ms. Minister and Government have replied that the amendment is not accepted, given that this draft law does not provide for a deadline within which a claim for conversion is applied for in respect of compensation, because it is a right acquired. The legal consequence of missing deadlines would be to confiscate or restrict the right to use acquired, which is not in accordance with the principle of legal certainty, given that this right is acquired under the law. Now I'm asking, you said in a year or two, we'd have a billion and 460. We suggest that we time limits and oblige those who have the right of use to enter the procedure without certainty when it ends, and you say no. He can't do that either. He can't. He can't. How are we going to charge the budget? Now I really don't understand what the government's intensity is? What did the legislator want to do with this law? Should I make it possible to build at any price and hire as soon as possible, free of charge, or does he want to do it by having someone who has a benefit, I'm talking about commercial building, it's not building public buildings, it's commercial building, apartments and business space, to pay for something that gets that building land? When you buy a house, you have a place to pay, you don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32350	Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32351	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to address you once again and pay attention to Article 20(2) which is very problematic, which says this - persons referred to in Article 1(2) of this law who have submitted a request for a building permit to be issued by the provisions of Article 135. The law on planning and construction, under the registration of property rights on the facility, shall have the right to conversion in accordance with Article 8 of this Act. Gentlemen fellow Members of the People, this member, that is, is directly linked to Article 1 which is mentioned here and which says that these persons who have exercised these rights by 13 May 2003 have the rights to be spoken of. So, on 13 May 2003, and in Article 135 relating to Article 102 of the Law on Planning and Construction, it is said that these persons who are mentioned here in their construction land, etc., exercise rights by 13 May 2013. I thought it would be good for this member to be deleted and the problem to be solved in that way. It is honest and fair to say that you will quickly enter the congregation procedure with amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. If Mr Martinovic said that the Law on Planning and Construction is a roof law that treats all other laws, i.e. they must fit into it, the question is open: how do you think to solve the problem of ten years of harmonisation of these members, ten years in which all the privatisations that have been bad since 2004 are mentioned and beyond? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32352	Time. Thank you. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, master Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, magistrate Aleksandra Jerkov and Natasa Vukkovic submitted. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32353	The proposed member of the amending and supplementing the law concerns the State Aid Control Act and it is necessary that the State Aid Control Act be in these amendments and additions. Our amendment proposes not only a language but, above all, a linguistic amendment, that in the first position where it is said that the competent authorities are obliged to keep records of state aid control rules in line with state aid control rules, that we replace the word "laws" with the word "law" because it is about the State Aid Control Act. Any argument - in order to apply the State Aid Control Act, it is necessary to adopt sublegal acts of that level and of the kind that the law itself prescribes in its own contents, is not sufficient and this is an amendment that should be adopted, regardless of what most thinks about the other amendments that I have made together with my colleagues. I have failed to submit the amendment to the third position of Article 21, which says - the ministry of construction affairs is obliged to run the central register of approved state aid. It is very slippery of such a provision, but in order to give a chance to regulate one area, we remain only on demand to replace the word "registration" with the word "legislative". The State Aid Control Act is also the subject of objections, suggestions and critical remarks that the Anti-Corruption Agency has and because of a clear analysis that we have a problem with law enforcement and with the application of the State Aid Control Act, it is a common benefit for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32354	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaža Bradic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 22a be added after article 22. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Amendment to the Law on the Amendment to the Consequences of the Republic of Serbia You have received amendments submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted the amendment to Article 1 relating to Article 46, which says - this law takes effect the following day from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and ceases to be valid for one year from the date of entry into force. This means that he was already supposed to be out of force and that for this past year he fulfilled everything we talked about when this law was passed. To remind you, respected viewers, this proposal was proposed by the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this deadline of one year they gave themselves and restricted the functioning of the law. Everything we pointed out a year ago, that the damage was great, that people should be helped, that they should not be limited, the majority of the congregation and the government were categorical that it would be over in a year. Now, after a year, but by emergency procedure, not a month earlier, not two months earlier, when his turn is, but by emergency procedure, without any debate, we ask for an extension until December 31st 2015. I ask – why? Where did you find it exactly December 31st, 2015? What happens if we come back and extend the deadline? What is the guarantee, what is the credibility of the promoter to be trusted in what he says? Is everything that's been planned for the past year or is it over? Come on, I don't know. (President: Time.) Thank you. ) Is it finished on the hillside of the Whisper, where we defended the Sabbath from the river? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32357	You're out of time. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32358	There are many reasons why we want to extend the deadline until 31.12.2015, which is precisely why EU Solidarity Fund funds were paid in May 2015. What we are now dealing with and where we are prepared, and which we are dealing with in the next period, is precisely flood prevention, so that such things don't happen anymore, besides the money being paid at 60.2m euros, that's one reason. The second reason is that further co-operation is being continued because much can be done at flood prevention and an additional 72m euros will be used for RHMZ, for new equipment, etc. until the moment we are in public debate, and this will be very soon, we put the system law in place because the law that we are now extending to another few months by the end of the year is not system law, but the system law that enters the public debate is the Law on disaster risk management. We'll finally have one system law to deal with. In the meantime, this law needs to live so that we can do whatever else we need to do in the next period, so that there is no stalemate in that business, as we said and when we spoke in the debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32359	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. Mr. Braddick, do you really think you're right? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I do. ) Are you mentioned in any context? Did the Minister address you in a negative context? Mr. Bradich, you've been a long MP, you know the Rules of Procedure, please don't. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32360	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that, of course, the amendment be rejected, and now I shall state the reason. So, the government thought it was a little faster to remove the effects of the flood, counting on the move that the government of Mirko Cvetkovic made at the time. After the King's earthquake, the wise government of Mirko Cvetkovic decided to provide a certain amount of construction material for the future for basic disasters and disasters. And, behold, they decided to buy it from the construction material manufacturer and they bought it from a famous tycoon, somewhere for about 500 million dinars, which bricks, which cracks, which blocks. When the flood occurred, the new government was counting on that already purchased brick, ticks, etc., which the state had already paid for, but, behold, wonders, both bricks and cracks and blocks and money remained with that tycoon. With a careful search to find this material, we found that there are no bricks, no ticks, no blocks, no money. This is one of the reasons why the effects of the flood are not removed faster. Because the construction material that, where miraculously, the former Government of Mirko Cvetkovic bought from a known tycoon, which, by the way, did not even have a brick, there was no such material, and of course there was no money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32361	Thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32362	Article 2 speaks, I will quote - this law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Since we have suggested that Article 1 be deleted, it is logical that there is no article 2. Let me just say, Madam Minister, you're talking about this law being necessary because it needs to pre-warn needs. I will remind you that the law reads – the Law on the removal of the consequences of the flood. There's no prevention. These are the consequences, and prevention is something that you need to plan and succesively as a serious government to work in one continuum. So this law creates conditions for the removal of the effects of the flood. You said you'd remove it in a year, and you didn't. Probably not, as soon as you extend the law. That means you misdesigned the law, even though we said it was something you couldn't limit. Until it's over, it has to be true, in order for people to get rid of everything that's happened, not by opening up the subject of who's guilty, whether there's guilty, but by talking about the damage that people have and who need to be taken care of. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32363	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32364	I'm sure you and I agree that we should do everything possible to get the skates that can never be completed in a year, and Serbia is really lying on the slides, we should end up. I also believe that we agree with all reports and the transparency of Serbia and the Trustees and everyone who saw how the Office worked and how the Office works and how public it is. If this system is as good as it is, and if money from the Solidarity Fund is just coming now, because in the previous period we used it from a budget or donation, etc., I guess it's logical that we end up through that system that other part of the work that is related to and the slides that are from the floods, but also the prevention that exists. So, I'm just trying to explain why the law will be extended, but for me, it's even more important, notably, the law that is systemic, which enters a public debate, which is permanently needed in a system way to solve issues and planning and flood prevention and, God forbid, when they happen, how the state works. It'll be settled by that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32365	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has Dr. Alexander Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32366	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, I really believe that this amendment should be rejected. Why? We heard in previous discussions – prevention. I believe that for the past 15 years it should have been done to prevent, and not just these jobs that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry and the prime minister are now dealing with, the consequences. These are the consequences of the poor government of the Democratic Party and its 15 years of rule. It's my town, Shabatz, where I come from. We all know what it was like that night when the floods started and how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Chapcans were on the defense of the dikes. I want to ask a question now for local self-government – what about those removed things, why wasn't it done cleaning the canals that led to us having been in the Sabbath community of the flood this year, when we didn't have so many natural disasters as last year? Last year we defended a 15 - mile [5 km] march on Sava and, as far as I'm aware, it is in the process and the final stage of production to approve the funds to move forward with the new production of the dikes. Why aren't all the things that local self-government needed done in Capco? The consequences and extensions of this law are that the government must do everything in its power. It's a precautionary thing that the new law, which you said, Madam Minister, will come into debate and will lead us as a state to never face such problems as we had last year again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32367	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32368	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would agree with the amendment only if it wasn't for the wise government decision by Mirko Cvetkovic, when they bought virtual, non-existent blocks, cracks and bricks from a known tycoon for real money. So that's the way they fought the poor, not the poverty. That's how they kidnapped the poor and gave the rich. That is why I fear such consequences and cannot accept this amendment and therefore I recommend to my colleagues that they do not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-15-0.u32369	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll be back to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
