ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38976	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. Please insert your identification cards into MPs to determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 116 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Dear MPs, I invite you to pay our respects to the innocent victims who were killed in the terrorist attacks carried out in Paris on Friday, November 13, 2015. May their eternal glory be, and thank you. Praise them. I'd like to inform you that it's in agreement with article 86. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly beginning of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the Assembly moved for today at 1600 hours. Informally, let me inform you that we will determine only the agenda in the afternoon. Here you go. (Nataša Vučković, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Before we move on to the Rules of Procedure, just so you know that we will have a short break of ten minutes for the Finance Committee to submit an amendment. Here you go. The word is Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38977	You injured the Rules of Procedure by delaying, or moving the beginning of the session for today at 1600 hours. According to Article 86, it is very clear, attitude 3 shows that the speaker of the assembly can postpone the start of the session. "Delay" in Serbian means predicting a later start of the session. Imagine if in a criminal, litigious, executive request for a stay we would interpret as an opportunity to move ahead of the session. So the Serbian language is very clear. This is a fully transparent and voluntary interpretation of the word "putting" in Serbian. So it's only possible to postpone for future time, not predict the possibility of a session in advance. This is a really poor interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and I think we're introducing a precedent this way, if we could adopt the possibility of delaying the sessions in advance, which would really enable an irregular work of the Assembly. After all, this is by emergency procedure called sitting and MPs have the right and to prepare for work under these laws, and ultimately to propose their proposals for supplementing the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38978	Yeah, we'll make it possible to supplement the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. We're not going to go to law school. We'll do it regularly tomorrow, as planned. We'll start after asking questions. We'll put it to a vote. Here you go. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38979	Of course, President, I will refer to Article 27 of Position 2 which speaks – the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Of course, it's about the start of the session you called on Friday, so within the short deadline prescribed by the Rules of Procedure seven days, you're scheduled for Tuesday, and now you're delaying Monday at four o'clock in the afternoon. So the verb "putting" in Serbian is to move by later, which is the definition of the verb "put down". Tuesday, November 17th, is not later, or later than this Monday, 4:00 p.m., for when you're delaying. So it's impossible to delay for earlier. I call upon you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. On the agenda of these sessions, laws should be found that have 700 members. We've had a weekend to look at those laws again, they've been standing in the process for a while. We have two laws per emergency procedure that came Friday afternoon and you're taking us another half-day, as long as we had when this session was over so we could get ready for the session. So it's absolutely unacceptable to work this way. Which means you could've informed us today that you've delayed the start of Friday 13th and that we've already started a new session. Is that the next step? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38980	Thank you. So you have my assurance that you will have time to prepare for tomorrow's session and debate on the proposed laws. This assembly really does a lot of work and it's no excuse, but every time I'd like to call a session with those seven days, we wouldn't be doing anything for seven days, and we're not able to do anything, our country isn't able to take seven days off to be something scheduled for 14 days later, because the state is being led in such a way that now has to do a lot of work. We would all like to live in some well-organised states and societies, so that after seven days, parliament does nothing, but we are not in such a position. You have my assurance, and I know you're prepared for the agenda, that this is a precedent that was necessary, but we will vote, of course. I am not running away from voting that I, too, may once interpret the Rules of Procedure wrongly, and the MPs will plead so. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38981	Article 107. Parliament's dignity has been violated, with the president playing at his will or at someone's orders with 250 MPs. There is absolutely no practice in Serbian parliamentaryism, at any time since Parliament exists here, nor in the environment, nor anywhere in the normal world, that parliament votes on changing the meaning of words in the language spoken in that state. It's possible to delay, but delaying ahead, even the greatest geniuses couldn't prove it was a proper interpretation. The deadlines for our preparation have been cut. By the way, we got the material for that rally session on Friday or Saturday. These are system laws, which even have good ones, but in this way, there is suspicion, not only of MPs, but also of Serbian citizens, what is happening. What is this over the need to just move the agenda to the day before? What, is the next day you won't have majority deputies or is something terrible coming up for tomorrow? Well, let's tell the people. The explanation that a lot of work is done in parliament, it is absolutely incorrect. There's no parliament in the world where there's a lot of work. There are parliaments where it is done properly and there are parliaments where nothing is done or done wrong. We're not in that first group. In seven days, you can schedule for the next three years at seven days of sessions by making an appointment and not having any gaps. All summer, all of September, half of October, the various delegations, as the people would say, are spiked around the world, and now you're making us work...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38982	MP, no offense to the work of Parliament. I can allow anything, but don't insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38983	You know exactly what I said and it's not an insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38984	No, I don't know what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38985	Then how do you know it's an insult... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38986	It's very ugly that you're joining the haji to Serbia's parliament. It would be best if we abolish Serbia's parliament so that certain circles in this country, which make a very ugly media picture of us all, are satisfied. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I demand votes. We'll absolutely vote. Of course we'll vote, and I invite you to verify your voice by pressing the button and staying in the hall. You will thus make a significant contribution to the work of Parliament and to your opinion and to the vote, so it turns out that there will be zero votes for your proposals, which I am extremely sorry for, because I think they are often of quality. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. No, that's my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure from first to last. I'm a law school graduate, you never read a legal code part of a sentence, if you want to get an interpretation. Thank you, we'll certainly vote. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What is the reason for... I wouldn't get used to it. It's not a day for shouting. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38987	Articles 87, 92 and 27. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, you are today trying to abolish the Serbian parliament. What you did today, the way you called the session, moved the deadline backwards, made it impossible for MPs to prepare the amendments, to prepare for the debate, to make it impossible for MPs to participate in a debate on such an important topic called lawless objects and seven more points of the agenda that you plan to bring together, you're making a circus out of this assembly... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38988	MP, I do not allow you to insult Parliament. I won't allow the word circus. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: I am looking for a meeting of the heads of parliament. It is your right to seek, but you are not the head of the parliamentary group, nor do you have a group. (Janko Veselinovic, from the scene: What difference does it make, I have the right to request a meeting. You don't have a group, MP. By the way, I let you... (National MP Janko Veselinovic throws out of town. Don't argue, we don't have the same way of communicating obviously. So, at all the points of the Rules of Procedure and the provisions to which you have called, your colleagues have already been invited, and we can't even put to the vote. (National MP Janko Veselinovic throws out of town. That's not true. If you are the President of Parliament, you will surely do it essentially differently from me. You can start preparing immediately for the morning debate on laws, but we won't lie to the citizens that we won't have a debate about the laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38989	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Vujovic, Honored Ministry guests, Honored National Assembly Presidents, I appeal to Article 1 and Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which none of the MPs who spoke had been called before. I consider it not reasonable for a session, scheduled for tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., to be postponed for today at 4:00 p.m. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, it is not reasonable, because language suggests that there is no logic in it, Mrs Gojkovic, respected. I have here a dictionary of Serbian language and a edition of the Mother of Serbia from Novi Sad, respected Mrs. Gojkovic, where she writes – the meaning of the word delay, respected gentlemen, is to move, postpone later. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, I do not think it is appropriate, respecting everything the Members of the People's MPs of the opposition parties said earlier, to postpone the term "decease", which means to move for later, here only in this case interprets it as a move for earlier, because the language, respected Mrs Gojkovic, does not allow it. Therefore, I suggest that our sixth session of this regular session, which is scheduled to begin tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., begins tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., honored gentlemen, as announced, as already scheduled on Friday, and that we do not play such games in an institution that is most important in our constitutional system, respected gentlemen and respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic. So tomorrow at 10.00, instead of today at 4:00. I think that would be appropriate, honourable Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38990	Thank you. You haven't presented any other reasons for hurting the Rules of Procedure from your colleagues, and I can only ask you if you want us to vote? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. () Certainly, the most appropriate is the opinion of the entire parliament, which we will get when we vote. But let me tell you that there are three other words that have the same meaning, so you'll find them in a dictionary that you want to use often. Since the other 240 and a few MPs do not consider the Rules of Procedure injured, at this point I will give the break I announced at the beginning of the session, so that the Finance Committee will finish its work. So, a 10-minute break, 15 minutes tops. Please use the break to prepare to present the completion of the agenda points, as we will only do so in the afternoon. We'll just determine the agenda this afternoon, and we won't discuss the law that was set to be discussed tomorrow from 10.00 after the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38991	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the next National MP: Miletic Mihajlovic. We move on to a search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. A year. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Dr Dusan Vujovic, Finance Minister Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy Nenad Mijailovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mirjana Ćojbašić, Assistant Minister of Finance and Slavica Manojlovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. You will now, if it is not already distributed, and the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Before we move to Rule 1, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38992	The Honored Chairman, Article 27 – The President of the Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. Like you said, we need to get an amendment. Since the break of 10 minutes lasted half an hour, I invite you to wait a few more minutes to see that amendment. Since this law has two members, the adoption of that amendment probably changes the essence of the law and I can't discuss it unless I know what the bill is about. If we could turn 10 minutes into half an hour, if we can postpone from Tuesday on Monday, then we can wait five minutes, or how long it takes, for all MPs to get that amendment to the Finance and Budget Committee to know what the bill is at the end of the day that, here, is experiencing changes from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38993	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. But, as you said yourself, we didn't open a debate on that amendment. Before we open the debate, you'll get that amendment. He's currently on copying the Committee report, so you'll get it any minute now. And until we get a proposal for that amendment to the Committee, we will discuss some other amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38994	I'll use five plus two minutes. There's a lot going on in Serbia, and they're taking people 50, 60, 70,000 dinars through supposed austerity measures, and then after a year, give them back one tenth of it and say they should be happy, happy, respected and loved by someone who thought of it. This is what we have with this law, where through the budget rebalance for 2015, however anyone wants to hide, every amendment to the Budget Law is a rebalance and there is no doubt about it. The rebalancing is not otherwise dangerous, to make it clear to the citizens. Rebalancing can be such that it has extra resources, so it needs to be redistributed. In this case, it's not like that. We have absolutely one vague law that's covered by a veil of secrets. We got him, he's got two members, and since then, there's been at least five changes. First there were 6,000 dinars, now 7,000 dinars are proposed. The first was that it was only for primary and secondary schools and institutions of the student standard, and now it's also for higher, higher, and I hear it should apply to preschool institutions. We don't have any clear information on how much that's total money. A billion and 700 million are mentioned, a billion are mentioned, etc. Both data are incorrect. If it is a billion and 700, with taxes and contributions, it is only one return to the budget and the relevant funds, and therefore is not relevant for the decision-making process. If it's a billion, I ask – how did you get that number? How many educational workers in Serbia? I have information from 2003 that there were 52,935 teachers in primary schools, 30,120 in high schools. It's hardly like there's another 40,000 in colleges, as much as you said when you gave the information that 120, 130,000 people are covered by this increase. Total increase, let's say it's a billion dinars, it's a very large number. When you translate it into something that will be easier to understand for Serbian citizens, it is a miserable 8.33m euros. When you divide it by 120 and a few thousand people, or when you see that these seven thousand are slightly less than 60 euros, then you see that this assistance is for educational workers who, by reason, aim "to improve the quality of the work process of secondary and primary schools and institutions of student standards", you think you can improve the quality of the process of work in secondary and primary schools by giving people five euros per month. I'd like to hear that genius come up with it and by what law, physically, nonexistent? Is that a Perpetum mobile or something? Do you think you can advance anything by giving someone a monthly charity of 500-600 dinars? It's a shameful decision not to talk about the atmosphere in which it's been made and the atmosphere in which it's being promoted. The Minister of Education says, "Whoever won't, return?" So I don't care about you, 120 grand. We have a prime minister who practically said the same thing. These are inadmissible things in the 20th century civilization, in North Korea, let alone in one country that is in the process of transition towards something better, according to the rule of law, according to the protection of freedom, according to something that the EU standards in which they all swear, but some of them swear, not swear those same standards. An explanation that rejected the amendments that we gave to the same text by my colleague Pavicevic and I, says – The amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is estimated that a solution is proposed at this time, until a law is passed which will systematically regulate salaries and other incomes of public sector employees, whose work is under way. The bill has been under way for more than two years, at least that's what was promised. How do you think a five-euro charity per month will solve the issue of salaries and other public sector incomes? What kind of charity are you solving the matter of health pay? With what charity do you address the matter of police wages, the military in all other parts of the public sector? Come on, let's see this genius who's going to explain to me how, I repeat, small means that are otherwise not worth talking about, you can solve big systemic problems. It is true that people in Serbia do not have money. It's true that for many people, 5, 6, 7,000 dinars is a huge number, but you can't put educational workers into that group. Poor country, poor government in a country where education workers are surpluses, where their salaries are high and where you give them welfare. Finally, we have a big problem with the definition of what that 7,000 is. There was a story that it was a reward, it was told that it was social aid and that it was a support. The prize, they can't get everybody's prizes, they get the better ones. Social assistance should be given to those who are socially endangered, and support, is not a word that can be used in the Budget Law. Therefore, I urge you to withdraw this law and give a good, normal and correct solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38995	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38996	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike my fellow farmer, I didn't finish that senior round of economics, so I didn't understand his speech enough, mostly they proposed an amendment to delete this member and they wanted to say that these 7,000 dinars should not be distributed to educators, that it is charity etc. I agree that this could be more if the money had not been spent, for example, on subsidies for vineyards, 525, that no estranged plot of 52h had been estranged when the company, along with the agricultural land that was leased, had to be damaged by 500,000 euros due to the restoration. If it hadn't been for that million and a few euros to try my fellow farmer to deal with agriculture and winemaking, maybe we could have increased more in this situation, not 7,000 dinars. So, we could have increased it and it was 10,000 dinars per educational worker, only that it wasn't in 2007 that my fellow farmer used his right to encourage, he was a farmer for three years, came out of agriculture, sold state land he rented, and thus damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by 52,000 euros. When we count that land as having legal followers who require restitution, another 500,000 euros should be charged in the restitution, so a total of one million and 25,000 euros and three million that it received in 2010, we today would have been able to increase that and that this one-time payment to educators would be 10,000 dinars. But that didn't happen. I understand the anger of my fellow farmer, for another old proverb says that he who ruled over others is the unbearable authority of another over him. So I think someone who ran a very bad government for a few months, and from that government was only worse than his government, I think he has certain intentions for someone who has some result despite the very bad situation being inherited. To him as economists in an attempt, as a farmer in an attempt I must explain that expenditure depends on income and that the state, unlike their time when it is financed by borrowing, must live on its incomes, must earn it. It's been a while since he lived off the man in charge, not the man in charge. What's worse? Now it would have been easier to live both our people and our educators to bear it, have higher incomes, if it hadn't been for the time to live from the man in charge and return the interest to the time when it was lived instead of the man in charge. Em, we have to earn every penny and save that's been paid in public expenditure, but we have to pay back 130 billion this year we've paid back what they owed over the past 12 years. So I fully understand his intention that the results of the government's unquestionably achieved, and any savings, and it's a small profit, the People's Proverbs also says, but since ignorance has no limit, I forgive him for it. All it's saving is how big a profit and any payout to the educators is very important because it's acquired in extremely difficult conditions for our country, however, he doesn't want to understand it. In order to explain it better, we can at this point divide every citizen of ours 5,000 euros each. It was the way the previous government acted. Let's borrow the land, convince someone to give us 35 billion credits and give everyone 5,000 euros. We will not achieve anything because in just one year these 5,000 euros will be spent on our citizens who are poor and eager for everything, because of the consequences left by the former regime, these 5,000 euros will be spent on the purchase of foreign goods as it was spent on loans, buying foreign goods through foreign trade chains, when excessive liberalisation was carried out, when the SAA that was signed guaranteed such a type of liberalisation and easy to earn an import lobby because they liked to see customs fall as soon as possible, which no country has done, always coincided with the date of entry into the EU of that country. They signed it primarily by wanting the import lobby, the export lobby to earn as much as possible, and thus the food industry was cleaned up. For someone else's money we bought other people's goods and they'd like it to continue. If we split 5,000 euros, the population would spend it as much as before for the purchase of foreign goods. We would not revive our production but grow production in countries where we import it. We have to save, we have to try, we have to raise our GDP in order to finally get as much public income as possible from the earned, and of course this country needs to finance from what it collects, not from what it pulls from abroad, and in such a way from real sources we pay both wages and pensions, and in such a way that GDP increases public revenues and that wages in the public sector grow and pensions grow. Anything else can lead us to the opposite, instead of growing production, can be taken to a decline in production and how would they do a bear service to their people as they did by increasing pensions and salaries by 5%, and then releasing a 10% inflation and import lobby on price differences over foreign trade chains for single sum. We don't want to do that. I, as a farmer, cannot be an economist who ended up being more economical, or more economical, higher in vain, I simply cannot, without fully explaining to him what the difference between them and us is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38997	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr. Bečić, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this bill that we propose, Minister Vujovic, in fact, to withdraw this bill because paying off this sum of 7,000 dinars would be the ultimate humiliation for educational workers. Minister Vujovic, we are offering you an honest way out of the situation in which you may have found yourself in circumstances. Minister Vujovic, I remind you that in the principle debate here on the content of Article 1 of this Bill, we have heard from you that you believe that the measure you propose is just, and then we heard that Belgrade high school professors, for example, on behalf of the Belgrade High School Forum, said that it was a humiliation for them. People you want to pay off and say -- that's justice; Minister Vujovic, they say -- it's a humiliation to us. Mr Babic also said in a principle debate that paying off this amount is a matter of dignity, and teachers recommend at least how much I could read and hear their performances in both the public and the media that it is no dignity, but that it is a charity respected gentlemen. We heard in the principle debate of Mr. Vukic who said that teachers, professors, would be happy to receive this amount, and then we heard teachers and teachers who said no one's charity. Let us not, gentlemen, adopt laws that are unjust, which concern humiliation and charity. We here need to adopt fair laws, gentlemen, which this one is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u38999	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39000	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, so of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected, therefore, amendment to Article 1 of this Law, which is a particular proposal for this amendment, is deleted. I don't think anyone who has access to today's law and today's subject can support the expropriation of Article 1 and the payment of the seven thousand dinars provided for by this law. But, unfortunately, we have again explained this amendment by the promoter, and I think of Mr. Zivkovic, therefore, not Mr. Pavicevic again, the same empty phrases and flossulas and the whole series of lies that we have had the opportunity to listen to in principle debate rebalancing, etc. But I can't get over it, so first, it bothers them when we don't cover all the categories of employees in the education of this law, so it's their main grudge. Then let's respect that argument, remove that weakness, respect our own, or cover all categories, and then it bothers them, and then it doesn't work. If they are not educational, or people who are employed in preschool institutions covered by this law, that is the problem. And then we write the amendment, the amendment gets adopted, we remove, I say, that flaw, and then the problem is why is it now? So, how much more of that criticism is doing the criticism? How much more criticism without one real argument? I won't look back on the fact that again who knows which way here really used inappropriate expressions are "breathsome, miserable, miserable" etc. Perhaps for you, Mr. Zivkovic, this misery, perhaps seven thousand dinars means nothing to you. We would like us to be able to pay you maybe 500, 25 000 euros, or to pay every educator like you 525 000 euros. Maybe that's an acceptable number for you, but we don't. And it is unfortunate that we are in a position to spend minutes and minutes by MPs who enjoy, whose support is measured in prominences, literally in prominences. So, even if that's true speaking in favor of the tribune proposed by this amendment the other day, I think Friday in Novi Pazar in front of 11 people. Here, look, Mr. Chairman, 11 people on the stands in Novi Pazar at Mr. Zivkovic's. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39001	Please, Mr. Markovic, you must return to the subject and the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39002	Here, I'll be right back. For all these reasons, I suggest we reject this amendment, of course, and I believe we'll reject it in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39003	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe... (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. He mentioned me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39005	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away and act like you're in a bar. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: But don't act... Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Why don't you give me your word? Mr. Zivkovic, I give you a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What then...) Mr. Zivkovic, I give you a second warning. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: "More"? ) You know, what happens next, disfellowshipping from the session, if you don't let the work at the session continue. Because you don't have the right to a replica. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Why don't you give me a replica?]] You have no right. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I do not have the right to reply?]] (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Five times mentioned. You're not mentioned by your first name, sir. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I was mentioned five times. Mr. Zivkovic, please. Don't make me cut you off from the session. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I was mentioned five times. Mr. Arsic, you've got your word, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment requires that we pay nothing to the educators, not a single penny, and someone says it's a little money. A little or a lot of it is a subjective thing, absolutely subjective. Here, I call on those who think it's a little money, there's the finance minister, there's his cabinet, let them take seven thousand dinars out of their pockets to pay as a grant for the employees of the education, to finally see our citizens, to see who's little, who's got more than he needs, or we'll talk to someone else's wallet that it's nothing. We're talking about seven thousand dinars being nothing, and we're not going to tell the citizens that this requires a budget of 15m euros. We will not tell the citizens that we have paid one of the most common sheds as much as the AP Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic paid one shed as the budget of the Republic of Serbia to pay for the employees of education. So you paid one shed for the whole budget increase. I guess I'm a little bit sick of you. I'm just asking a question, for me, seven thousand dinars is big money, I'm just asking one question – what is the criterion and how much do you make when it's small and we have the same salary? So get out of these demagogues. We pay as much as we have, what's ours, what the state has earned. If you were paying for what the state earned, we wouldn't be in a position to help anyone at all. We're talking about a basic accident that happened in 2014. They're often mentioned here. Pity about a billion and a half euros. We want to bet how much damage it's caused for the state while you're running the government. In the material sense of human life no one can return and it has no price, it's something we can't return, it's something that's most expensive, it's something that's immeasurable, but I'm asking, let's see what price the citizens of your government pay, whether your authority was worse than an elemental disaster. Right now, one to one, what's the damage to the elemental accident, that's how much in 2015 we're paying interest on your loans. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: yours, yours. Your loans. For your Agro Bank, for your Vojvodine Development Bank and stop hiding behind demagogy and lies. Yours, your credits. Your unemployed, who you've left out of work, no family, and then you talk about how small you are. So how long was it in someone's pocket when that robbery ended when there were seven thousand dinars?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39007	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Mr. Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, were injured by members of 1st and 104 earlier, Mr Becic. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly when you are not on the basis of Article 104, one of us 250 here, Mr Zivkovic, are not on the basis of Article 104, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure gave the right to the replica since, Mr. Bečić, Mr. Markovic repeatedly mentioned by Mr. Zivkovic's last name, that he referred in his speech to parts of Mr. Zivkovic's speech, that he had misread, or interpreted, parts of Mr. Zivkovic's speech. Instead of giving Mr. Zivkovic the right to a replica, you wrongly gave Mr. Zivkovic two measures of warning, Mr. Becic. I, Mr. Becic, now invite you to check your stenogram, Mr. Becic. Well, I'm telling you that Mr. Markovic, mentioned, you don't have to ask him to check the stenogram. If there is in the stenogram Mr. Markovic's speech the name of Mr. Zivkovic, to say it later in public here, to apologize to Mr. Zivkovic and to withdraw both of the warnings you wrongly gave to the MP, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39009	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39010	Let me finish. And, to give Mr. Zivkovic the right to reply afterwards to Mr. Aleksandr Markovic's presentation, which he had right after speaking to the MP, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39011	As you read Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, it is said - on the use of this right under Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President or by the chairman of the National Assembly. I estimate that Mr. Markovic's exposure does not give Mr. Zivkovic the right to replication. Mr. Zivkovic did not accept it, interrupted the work of the National Assembly session, did not allow the session to continue, and I gave notice to this same Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. I thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39012	Thank you. I'm using the time of the DS parliamentary group. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39013	I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic. Just a moment, please. (The National MP Goran Bogdanovic throws out of place. Please allow it, Mr. Bogdanovic. Do you have to throw? Mr. Risticevic, it is the Rules of Procedure's priority, but I have already given the word to Mrs. Komic, so please let Mrs. Comic finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39014	Thank you. There, we're having a session together. It's just that some people can't, some people can't. Okay, it doesn't matter. So I use the time of the DS parliamentary group, in support of the amendment submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The text of the law of the total budget rebalancing is, in one sentence – for persons employed in primary and secondary education institutions and institutions of the student standard, a net amount of six thousand dinars can be paid on the basis of the government's decision, with a corresponding tax and contributions to compulsory social security. The colleagues have submitted an amendment to delete this article and you have accepted that amendment, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. This article does not exist, nor does it have six thousand, nor does it apply to what you wanted seven days ago, nor did you exempt what you had to exempt under the law, and these are the employees of preschool institutions. So much to lack respect, to enter into the assembly procedure on November 5th of this proposal, to refuse this amendment that this is more cellular, to completely change it, to completely give up original intent and here to say that it is more comprehensive. You know, there are those of us who read the laws and hear the throws, if there's gonna be a last name, so that the chairman doesn't give the replica, I'd do the same. (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: Where is Borko? When it comes to everything, so would I, since there are different names. I'll wait for the chairman to start running the session and warn the MPs that there's no throwing, because they're distracting me in my speech. If you can't establish order...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39015	Mrs. Comic, I don't notice anyone interrupting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39016	Can't you hear the throws? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Giric, here I heard him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39017	Here, just now Pavicevic throws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39018	Warn him to distract me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39019	Mr. Pavicevic, please don't disturb Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39020	Either you run the session, or we run the session. Now, you see how you have cheered up the people's MPs of the coalition. Their pitching is not heard, and the passing of the MP Pavicevic is heard. Extraordinary ears in this room, but extraordinary eyes in those who look into this room. Well, let me get on with it. So today you have proposed an amendment to the Committee to add the text to pre-school institutions after the word "educated" in a sentence I have read. So, it will say, for now, a member who you refused to delete because it is the most comprehensive and best possible – employees of primary, secondary education institutions, pre-school institutions and institutions of the student standard can be made on the basis of the government's decision, and you add another part of the sentence – i.e., the competent executive body of the local self-government unit, which is inadmissible. This is my remark, Minister. Six days ago, you believe with the right that the government cannot decide on financial compensation for employees in preschool institutions because local self-government is responsible for this. You are now giving this law an indirect, indirect obligation to units of local self-government to pay and workers employed in pre-school institutions. You had the most cellular six days ago, so two days later, the most complete was seven thousand. (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: Where is Borko? Whoever has eyes to read has ears for political cowards who earn because they know they have the protection of the chairman, he can see one simple thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39021	Please, Mrs. Comic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39022	Political cowardice, legal term, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39023	It's okay, but please don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39024	I would never, and I would always support you in the application of the Rules of Procedure when you apply it, so that when you throw it away, I would ask you very, very, very humanly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39025	Here, I promise you, Mrs. Comic, the first time there's been a fling at your exposure, I'm sure I'll react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39026	I thank you very much. (Dragan Nikolic, from the place: She throws the most out of their group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39027	Please, Mr. Nikolic, you'll get a warning. Don't throw it away. (Dear Nikolic, from the place: Well, she throws the most out of their group. Mr. Nikolic, don't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39028	That's a nice name. So, if the units of local self-government, and this is really a question for the minister now, I would ask you, not for me, not for your sake, but for the people who are employed in pre-school institutions in various local self-governments, this budget rebalancing is what the Government is obliged to do, or the Parliament will, on a proposal from the Government, if it votes such a law, units of local self-government to make the same payment. Does the government, under one, provide additional money to local self-governments for this, under two, the government gives instructions to local self-governments from which the funds of their budgets to make a payment of seven thousand, if that remains until the end of the adoption of this law, or, under three, the Government has another solution? We have made clear our position on this, and what do we think of the way that rebalancing is done, and what do we think of the changes of this member that no longer exists, but all together is much less important than our common obligation to give clear answers to workers in pre-school institutions, local self-governments in Serbia, by what conclusion, by which mechanisms and how, if the amendment of the Committee is accepted today, they will also have the right to pay out of 7,000, and not from six, if any other amendment is accepted? It is our common obligation, because we are here because of those and whose standard and whose rights and freedoms we should care about together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39029	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the students of the Fifth Belgrade High School, who are currently following a part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39030	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, even though I hear the marbles, jam is not a throwaway. I'm advocating Articles 103 and 104, Article 106. Rules of Procedure. Let me take my turn. The MP has the right orally to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 says, if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly expressed himself offensively to a non-member MP and to the same parliamentary groups, stating his name and name, therefore, not only his last name, so that Mr. Chairman, these are the grounds on which you can and do not have to give the right to a replica. In this situation, you had no right to apply your discretionary right, since the necessary conditions laid down in Article 1 were not mentioned in the name and last name, nor was it offensive, and one doctor of science and one professor could at least read the entire provision of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of Work, not to interpret it in a way that doctors, professors, academically honest people can do without reading the Rules of Procedure but in their own way interpreting Article 104. As for Article 106, several times before and who threw it, Mrs. Komic was in the O.R. because of the marbles, she advertised a throw-off even though there was no throw-off, so the conditions of Article 106 were not met. So, the MP just wanted to let the audience know that he was being thrown at even though at that point he just heard the jam in the O.R. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39031	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. You are right, interpreting the Rules of Procedure as a result of the quality of the debate and today's very important topic which is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, I have estimated that the conditions for replicas have not been met. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Dr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39032	Allow only a few short direct answers to questions that are explicitly but implicitly asked. So what number of people are concerned, depending on what records are being seen, is between 135 and 140 thousand people in primary, secondary, higher and higher education and about 25 thousand people in preschool institutions. The amounts involved, according to this proposal and the amendments that we are talking about, assuming that they will be adopted, that is normal, I expect, because it is a normal procedure if something is submitted to parliament that both the committee and MPs have the right to propose amendments and that we are also considering in our answers the basic variant and the variant of the amendments. So, if the amendments we have here on the list and the amount is 7,000, if the fact of the law is extended in two steps from primary, secondary education to higher and higher education, and to preschool institutions, which we have just tried to make available today with this amendment at the board's session, because we did not have Mrs. Karavidic's proposal, but we did not have a concrete amendment, we did our best to put it into the amendment, if this is adopted then we will have about 160,000, at least 160 thousand potential users who will produce an effect of around 1.92 billion dinars, meaning, roughly two billion dinars, or 1.1 billion net, which is about between nine and 10 million euros net, or 17 million euros gross. That may be modest, but I can't discuss it. I can only say that I think it's immodest to say that it's nothing. I think it's a good fee for people, everyone has the individual right to assess it, accept it or not accept it, but this is an attempt to help people in one sector in a difficult situation. That's our intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39033	I thank you, Mr. Minister. (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: Let me add another sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39034	I still don't think that the Serbian government should decide and impose anything on those authorities that decide on others, therefore it says, to paraphrasise, that local-level founders decide on preschool institutions since they also set up those institutions, they finance those institutions. But all of this is behind the words -- I can, we're just opening up a legal opportunity to do it. The government's decision and the founder's decision will depend on whether or not they will do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39035	I thank you, Mr. Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Based on what replica, Mr. Zivkovic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: The minister spoke twice, and the MPs cannot speak once. Mr. Pavicevic, you're throwing, you're looking for a right that belongs to the Rules of Procedure, I don't understand. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Late, Mr. Pavicevic, I've already given my word. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Please, it is not a problem. ) Here you are, Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President and Chairman and today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, is now, I think, clearly broken Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in matters of order at the session of the National Assembly. Mr Becicu, the minister when the guest is in the debate in particular has the right to respond once every two minutes to what was the argument of the MP or MPs who submitted the amendment. You, Mr. Becic, despite such a clear rule, enabled Minister Vujovic to speak first in the first speech for two minutes and 11 seconds, then again you gave him the word after he had just finished his speech to speak for another 40 seconds, and you did not allow the MPs whose presentations were referred to by Mr. Vujovic, Mr. Becic, to the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39037	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'll never understand you. First, you ask the government members to answer the questions of the MPs. When we give the possibility to government members in this case, the government's authorised representative, the finance minister, to explain the law that is very important to a number of Serbian citizens, you are now saying why I gave the minister a kind question, if he can say one more sentence, I am as chairman, regardless of what he had no right at the time, to allow, with one more sentence, to complete an explanation that as a member of the government to give to the MPs. I will next time he speaks these 20, 30 seconds away from his two minutes, the rights he has under the amendment so that you may be satisfied, but I say, at one point you ask that the members of the government be present here, to answer all your questions, and at the second moment when we give them that right, you object to it. Mr. Pavicevic, please sit down. You don't have to stand if you want to. But you can't win, because I'm going to have to give you a warning. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39038	It is interesting that someone is having such a good time on a very serious subject, such as amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. But, well, I leave that to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I leave it to the courts of these wonderful young people who are watching us and now from the National Assembly gallery, I hope that and I am sure that one of them in a near future will inherit us in these benches and do this job probably much better than we do. Being against someone or against something is the legitimate and democratic right of every individual, especially someone who deals with politics. But to form your policy only on the basis of waiting for someone who is worthy and responsible for doing his job, and then being against him and everything he does is burdensome and bad for a democratic dialogue. When this National Assembly, in one difficult day, did one imposed thing, which is a reduction in public sector wages and a reduction in pensioner's share of the highest incomes, the same people were against that reduction, legitimately. Now that it is based on the measures that this government of the Republic of Serbia has implemented, based on the policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have come to the situation that the state can get out of what was saved, from what was earned, and not on the loans, as it has been many times before, to help educational workers, to increase salaries to educational workers, to increase salaries for people who are employed in health, to increase pensions even for those pensioners whose pensions are not reduced, they are again the same people against. Based on what? Why don't we talk about the amendment? Amendment, which says in the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, Article 1. - It's wiped out. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who work in education, from preschool, school, secondary school, secondary school, student standard, higher school and student standard, in this way the amendment promoters, but also those who have stood up here and said that – we support this, wanted this aid not to be granted to 7,000 dinars, because they supported the amendment – it is deleted, by accepting this amendment – it is deleted, by helping educational workers of 7,000 dinars. And where's the dignity? Where's the dignity? On the other hand, again on the basis of being the opposite of what Alexander Vukic says or does and nothing else does in life, other than being against it, is also a sentence that this is a budget rebalance. The budget rebalance, for those who have little more than what Honorable counterpart Marijan Risticevic says – around the economic school, they know that budget rebalance is done when the revenue side changes or when the spending side changes, or when the cost structure changes more than 10%. Neither, nor the other, nor the third case is this, but it is in the minds of those people who will say, yes, we will earn some points because we will be against Alexander Vukic and it is only politics and nothing is done and we are holding hands in their pockets and waiting for the next press conference or the next move by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so we will be against it and we will do something about it. No, you won't, gentlemen, do anything, because then you stand up to one hardworking and honest, honest policy, and you stand against it, and we will continue to regulate our country, both ours and yours. You are against it and we will continue to fight to make progress as this year for 32 seats on the "Duing Business List". You continue to object, and we will continue to work and build both Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 and all other roads. You're still against it, but we're going to try and fight to raise salaries and pensions next year, but not because we're going to increase 10% as a former regime and hide inflation is 25%, so we're coming up to a minute from real increase. We will never distract so Serbian citizens, nor will we do any increase from going and taking credit, so we will think that these children who are now at the National Assembly gallery will return it. No, neither they nor ours nor your children will return. We have to do this, as we return your loans, as we pay your interest, as we will in the next 2016 when the top of that wave is the biggest interest we will have to pay in the amount of a billion and 300 million euros, interest, and you will be against it. We'll keep doing it this way. This law, although changing in amendments and I see no reason why someone is objecting to the amendments and which is why only one of the MPs has the right to submit an amendment, and I have no right to bear the amendment which I have submitted to extend this aid to both professors and those people in the November standard, but also to increase that aid to 600, 7,000 dinars. What makes it possible for someone to submit the amendment and not the others? Well, I guess we're just here to change the laws, just to improve them. We did this with these amendments, and with my amendment, but also with the amendment of the Committee a few moments ago. What's the problem? This law is a fruit of agreement. Why does anyone in this room, but also in our society, mind when there is an agreement, when there are people who are ready to sit at the same table as the people of the union in education, like the people of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as they made the deal. Was it easy to come to an agreement? Well, it's not. Of course not, but a deal has been made. I respect all people in Serbia, I respect people from the Belgrade High School Forum, I think. Is that the whole education thing? Belgrade High School Forum. I respect, once again, and I'm going to say once again that I respect the Belgrade High School Forum, but is that the whole education? It's not. There are also high schools in my Vranjska Banja, Kraljena, Čačka, Subotica, Leskovec and Valjevo. There are schools, 1,300 and how many elementary schools there are in RS. What about them? So 1,257 primary schools, 441 secondary schools and now the Forum of Belgrade High Schools has come out and we say – that's it, that's the attitude of education. No, it's not, gentlemen, that attitude of education. The attitude of education is shown in agreements with the Government of RS, and those who are bothered by the agreement, likely to still have the announced Ukrainian scenario in their head, or are still in their hands in front of RTS or something like that. Dignity, many times mentioned. Do you think dignity is merely created by the amount of money in the account or by what educational workers have? Teachers, teachers, teachers, that's, of course, the very important part of the education. No less important part of the education is students and students. No less important part of education are schools and buildings and tables and wet knots and school benches and gymnasium. Do you think dignity would improve and remain at the "Vuk Karadzic" elementary school in Sipo near Kladova, such a wet knot that both children and employees go to? Do you think that this is the way you're going to get adopted and this amendment adopted, that they're going to go much more dignifiedly into this wet knot, which I don't believe is some Turkish cadet? Alcatraz was better. See also the wet knot at the "Drinka Pavlovic" school in Kursumlia. Don't you think this is unworthy? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Are wet knots in the law? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39039	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, why are you throwing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39040	I believe, Mr. Becic, that sort of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39041	Why are you throwing Mr. Schutanovac? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Are wet knots in the law...) .? ) As you know, Mr. Shooter, that wet knots have in schools, that this is the subject of this law. Educational workers, schools, conditions. If you don't understand that, and since you haven't been to the Great Hall of the National Assembly in a long time, today is the first time in a long time, I don't think you even know what's on the agenda. Dragan Sutanovac throws it out of place. If you knew, you wouldn't be throwing Mr. Sutanovac out of a place in the middle of a gentleman's speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39042	Mr. Vienna, you're wasting SNS time on this chat and I'm begging you and I believe there are no wet knots like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39043	Mr. Granny, I must allow you to continue your work. Mr. Sutanovac threw it in the middle of your speech. If you don't mind, I'm sorry, I won't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39044	Mr. Bečiću, this is a wet knot at the "Drinka Pavlovic" elementary school in Kursumlia, and I believe that someone doesn't recognize one, because there are no wet knots like this in the pasture. They're not like that. I'm sure they're with gold taps, that they're with some Spanish ceramics, that they're very luxurious, and I believe that someone gets angry when they see this. I believe that it's uncomfortable for someone to see them calling for the dignity of educators, to be creeped out when they see where those educators are, but more importantly, where our children who go to the "Drinka Pavlovic" elementary school in Kursumlia go to a wet knot. There's a series of photos here, and I don't want anyone to get excited, because, you know, when you get used to gilded taps and when you get used to Spanish ceramics, when you see this decomposed ceramic from the walls of schools in Serbia, you feel uncomfortable. That's why I understand those who earn. I agree that this aid, but also an increase in wages and pensions, would be far greater, if the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia had not been spent on one criminal, bad, not to use some worse term in any way. You know, I think we could certainly talk about the amendment here, not to help educational workers be seven, but 10, 12 or 15 thousand dinars, that Bojan Pajtic for this building, for this grand-year-old building, called "Hetherland", for children with developmental disorders, did not spend more than a million euros. Look, a million euros. Well, imagine that we've now shared those million euros for educators. How much more would that be? But here, Bojan Pajtic, for this building, where you can see only beams and nothing more, and you drop a malter, just like in schools in Kursumlia, gave a million euros. It would be more for educators, if Bojan Pajtic hadn't been here for this building, for this board, which is two meters of lime, paid for four squares a million euros, of course, to the company "Gardi" from Novi Sad. No buildings, no funds, no money. Respected educators, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what we have now done, this money that is now dedicated to you is defined from what is real, which is real, what we have saved and earned, and not from credit. This current law and today's amendments are the fruit of an agreement between the trade unions in education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Those who are against the Government of the Republic of Serbia, against Alexander Vukic, continue to do so, it is a legitimate, democratic right, of course, and we will continue to regulate this country. We will continue to discuss, and in the following year, laws that will increase pensions and salaries in the public sector, and those who are against it, honor them and honor them in front of these children at the National Assembly gallery.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39045	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39046	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People, have somehow avoided or ignored something that is essential in this discussion. In essence, it is not necessary to accept the proposed amendment by the proposings recorded in this proposal. There are, according to us in the SPS parliamentary group, at least two important reasons why the amendment should not be accepted. The first one is purely legal. I therefore appeal to all fellow Members of the People's Parliament, primarily in the coalition, to finally intervene in the Rules of Procedure in order to prevent the abuses of the Rules of Procedure, especially abuses with the institute, and that is what the institute "expects". For the simple reason that by applying such an amendment, the entire assembly would be brought into a blockade. The reminders are requested to delete Article 1, which is the essential part, the essential part of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law. What would happen as a legal consequence by eradicating that member? What are MPs supposed to vote on in voting day? About the second member? A member who speaks when the law comes into force? Absolutely as a legal notsens there is a reason why this amendment should not be accepted. Absolute legal nonsens. What I particularly want to point out as a second reason, I have legally said - because there is both an illegal initiative and an illegal motive. Here, both of these legal criteria can be applied when it comes to the proposals of these amendments, but there is another reason. Those who know a certain termology of academic level know what antipods are. In terms of political well-meaning and political honesty, the anti-sub is political demagogy. Political demagogy exists when some time has not been seen, when a lot of things have been wasted irrationally and caused the effect that today must be spared, must be saved at all levels and that this savings simply produces everything that is related to both fiscal policy in the state of Serbia and to provide social rights and to satisfy social justice. We're like a party that in its program what we're essentially carrying, that's exactly the idea of social justice. Is social justice served the way it was proposed in the amendments and additions to the law we are discussing today? No doubt it is. Make it the least of it, but it is. This should in no way be an alibi for those who speak of any humiliation or shame that is paid less or more. It pays as much as possible, and how it will be accepted from the point of view of the emotions of the citizens to whom this law applies, we will leave it to the citizens to assess. I would especially like, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to highlight the fact, for those who do not remember, that this has been before. In 2013, the year was also the year in which the ministry, headed by the minister of the SPS, our friend, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, was, in exactly the same way, making the same legal provision to the users to whom these amendments and additions of the law apply. Dear colleagues from the opposition, that's exactly the ministry that you've criticised most, that you've put on a pillar of shame, that you've put in a position of unargumented convictions, a professional link across the media. It's that ministry that did the same thing we're doing today. I don't want to take a word of our friend, Professor Zarko Obradovic, in any case, because he will far, far more competent and argumentative, if he wants to, say something about this, but I am absolutely certain of one fact. You don't need to run from the truth in any way. The truth is that, regardless of the amount of money it is, this cash amount that is now defined represents support and assistance, in the social sense of the word, exactly the category that it needs most. Everything else is in the realm of political demagogy, and I have said that political demagogy is precisely an anti-political honesty and political well-meaning. For this reason, we in the SPS parliamentary group will certainly not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39047	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I ask the messengers to be patient, we have a large number reported. Mr. Pavicevic, I understand that you are today in the mood to interpret every speech in the National Assembly, but you are not mentioned in a negative context, nor is your name mentioned, so I do not understand why you seek the right to reply. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I am proposing an amendment. ) You are not the only one who proposes the amendment, we have some other MPs who are proposing the amendments, so I cannot interpret whom Mr Jovanovic meant. But after giving Mr. Zarko Obradovic the advantage in his presentation, Professor Zarko Obradovic has the word. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Who runs this session? ) Mr. Djurisic, I say that in his presentation he gave priority, so he gave me the opportunity to give Mr. Obradovic a word before Mr. Sutanovac, because Mr. Obradovic was mentioned several times. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39048	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have come forward with the intention of participating in this debate, namely to say a few words under this amendment, regardless of what I am mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39049	Mr. Obradich, let me explain my comment. So, before you, Mr. Sutanovac was in your order. I'm counting on you to answer the amendment, but the fact that you mentioned it, I think it was okay to give you my word right away, and then Mr. Sutanovac will get you after. Here you go. You're not entitled to a replica, I'm counting on you to speak according to the amendment. Mr. Djurishic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39050	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words on this amendment, first of all on this subject. Since I was a man from 2008 to 2013, for five, practically, school years, I consider myself competent enough to say a few words about this very important subject. I must say, I'm personally surprised by the way the amendments and additions to this law are spoken of, that is, the subject on the agenda, which is a one-time help to the educators. I expected the opposition to support the ruling majority's proposal and without any reservation to vote for this proposal, and in particular I did not expect that there would be such words as are, in my opinion, very negative and do not serve, are not good, give some qualifications on educational workers that they do not deserve, talk about education in a way that education does not deserve and I think it's very bad that the debate went that way at all. In fact, this government move absolutely needs to be welcomed because that's what the government can do right now. Here's a colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, mentioned in 2013. At that time, we, as a resolute ministry, have defined one help for the educators to mark the day of St. Sava, and I must remember that also in 2008 at 2009, it seems to me right at the end of the calendar year, and we also gave the educators help. In fact, the educators deserve to get the money, the educators work for the state one very, very important job, most important in the country, they educate our population, and it is logical that this help can be as great as the economic possibilities of the country. I'm sure Mr. Vujovic and he knows it, we're here in one system, if I may say so, problem. The problem is that the country's economy still does not generate that income and income that would give the government the opportunity to allocate more money for education, as a portfolio that is very important for the future of the country. I must remind myself that in 2009, the education portfolio became part of, if I may say, the structure of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and since 2009, the economic crisis has begun. From that moment on, even the salaries of educators had to be consistent with the general trends in the country's economy, i.e. there could be no greater increase than could be allowed. Thus, the educators began to share the fate of the economic situation in the country, and until then, unfortunately, years before, when it was not taken into account, they did not get the adequate increase they deserved, so that their starting position relative to some other public sectors was lower. I am pleased that the government announces that in the future it will take care first of all of the educators and then of the others, in order to even their position with the positions of employees in the public sector. There is another systemic problem, and this is the structure of the budget of the Ministry of Education, of course, the economy is the basis, and this other one is also important. It's mentioned a lot of what money is spent on. Unfortunately, at the end of the 1990s, when the budget structure of the Ministry of Education was 88% for employees' salaries, and 12% for everything else, that's when I say "all the rest", that's how many -- and loans, and scholarships, and investments, and projects, and a lot of funding at all levels of education. Then it can be understood what it means to “all other things. ” If we consider that the budget structure of the Ministry of Education is now 95%, compared to 5%, 95% of the funding goes to salaries, and only 5% of this remains, then unfortunately, we can't be surprised that and sometimes we're not satisfied with the conditions in which the education process takes place. But in any case, what is essential, I mentioned this increase in 2008, 2009 and 2013. At that time, the sums received by the educators were lower than this amount that the Government has now set and I must say that, of course, we know that education should get more, but this absolute education deserves and needs to get. I'm going back to the beginning of my story. I think the opposition colleagues, since it was not such a practice before, at least when it came to discussions on a set of educational laws, there were no political qualifications, there were no offensive words, there was no politicisation of everything. It's a good thing the government talked to the unions because this social dialogue with the unions is something absolutely necessary. You'll understand, and unions have their own special requirements and have their own special, if I may say, positions and it's good for the government to agree with the unions on everything, as it has been done in the past. If there is an understanding of the union for the country's economic situation, then the solution is mutually acceptable and everyone will be pleased. Then it will show exactly who is politicizing a particular question and why it politicises a particular question. I have to remind my colleagues who I was once with in the government and who are now the position that in 2011, we had a third-school strike that lasted two and a half months, a third of schools, of 1,860 schools, then about 604-605 schools were on strike because the unions didn't trust the government that there was no money to increase. Unfortunately, the students then lost over two and a few months of time with short hours, lost material, had to apply special measures in the ministry and give special instructions on how to make up for what was lost, so that the students would not be harmed. So, there's been a situation before that we had to resort to one-time solutions, but I'm saying, it's still a systemic problem because, simply, the educators didn't have such a good starting position as others in relation to employees in other sectors, and that produced the consequences that it produced. This help is precious, this help is good. This help is something to greet. I appeal to all fellow MPs that they do not have to listen to me, but I would like to change the content of words when they talk about education because people in education, at all levels, have also shown in recent years a high degree of tolerance and understanding, but also to help colleagues. Here, I will remind respected colleagues that, for example, when we had problems with students at five colleges, it seems to me that the Faculty of Political Sciences, the Faculty of Security, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, that the management of these universities accepted that part of the costs that their, I say, autonomous costs were shared, that as many students could get the opportunity to finance, to school on the cost of the state. I'm also glad that the employees of preschool institutions, and I remind you, in the old days before I was Minister of Education, that was the first time in our recent history that a special law on preschool education and education was passed, which will also get them this help. They deserve it because their work is very, very valuable because that's where it's being created, let's say, that base for everything that's being taught, from the first grade of elementary school and beyond. The ministry will, without a doubt, find a mechanism to transfer these funds to local self-governments, but Mr. Minister, pay attention to the control mechanism of spending these funds because in the past we have had some situations where certain municipalities, when transferring funds for jubilee awards, do not use funds for those purposes for which they are intended, but unfortunately loses track of that money, and then the ministry must later react to provide for these employees. So all employees deserve to get this one-time help and it needs to be done as soon as possible. I say once again, I'm sorry to even talk about this subject. This point was supposed to take five minutes, that we all voted out, to welcome the government's decision and, of course, to make sure as a state that the economy was better so that more money would be for education, because education deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39051	I thank Dr. Obradovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39052	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I will try to return the subject to the amendment submitted by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic, who says, is deleted in the sense that such a proposal for assistance that you view as enormously high is simply not appropriate for us and should not be done. To be clear, I'm also paving a little bit with fellow MPs who were in the O.R., and they're out right now, so it's 7,000 dinars. Someone will say big help, we'll agree it's a big help to someone, which is about 19 dinars a day. So, educational workers will receive around 19 dinars a day of great assistance from the government of the Republic of Serbia and its prime minister, Vukic, in the next 365 days. Mr. Obradovic, a respected colleague, is not the beginning of today's state of education, is the beginning of a year ago, when you voted here to take away 10% of their salary from those same professors, teachers, to take away 165 dinars a day, and now you convince us that 19 dinars is enormously large funds that these educators will receive, which you remember to strike in 2011 and I'm sorry that the Prime Minister didn't propose to take over, because you obviously misleaded the Ministry at that time, and now you support the measures that are happening here, which we think are classical political demagogy. Why does the Democratic Party not support such a bill? Because we suggest that he return kidnapped, not to grant charity. So, what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39053	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39054	So, what the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken through a reduction of wages to educational workers, we are asking it to return. We support 7,000 dinar extra salary supplements and it is not disputed, but we cannot agree with all of you who are saying that this government is paying back the old debts, and Mr. Minister, so your newsletter from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia says – on September 30, 2014 the debt was 22 billion 565 million 753 euros, and now 24 billion is 468,760 million. So you set out nine million euros for 7,000 dinars per employee in the education system, nine million, and you owe the state. In a year's time, according to your indicators, no dilemmas, this is from your website. I only use authorized sites, you owe the state a billion and 906 million in that period. So the public debt has increased by a billion and 906 million. Here, I'm telling you, I can read it to you again -- on September 30, 2014, a debt of 22 billion 565 million on your site, is not a website of the Democratic Party. On your site September 30, 2015. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: your site has been shut down. Don't throw it away, you're always funny to me, never funny. Twenty-four billion and 468 million. So, if you're telling this troubled people that they're saving, that we're not in debt, but we're returning old loans, the question is -- it's possible that the debt has increased by almost two billion, and we're giving out 9.2m euros if it's for all 160,000 employees in the sector. On the other hand, Mr. Arsic, I'm glad you mentioned what was inherited and need citizens to know what was inherited. It was inherited that an annual pension was Googled. Mr. Minister, do you have any idea that in 2000, an annual pension owed to pensioners in the Republic of Serbia for leaving colleagues who are in power today, that the debt is an old-age foreign savings, that foreign reserves were at 300m euros and 600kg of heroin. We left 11.5 billion euros in foreign exchange savings where the average salary was 40 marks, we left 800 marks, if you're looking at the opposite. They're very heavy these numbers, very heavy...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39055	Mr. Sutanovac, let's get back on the subject and on this amendment, and if you don't know what the amendment is, I'll remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39056	No, wait, I'll talk about the toilets. Now, Mr. Becic, I'm going to talk a little bit about the toilets because it was about the amendment, if I'm not mistaken. Is that right? Can I help you? Are you confused?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39057	I'm not confused. I just don't understand. .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39058	And the offended? I'm sorry you don't understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39059	Okay, please no comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39060	Please, I'm sorry you don't understand, I don't have a dilemma, I don't want to delude with you because you don't understand, I'm plowing with the minister, you're not my topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39061	You understand her well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39062	So, Mr. Minister, your government has now increased all taxes in the last two and a half, three... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39063	I understand that because you don't understand I have to understand and respect the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: what's this about? I don't understand. ) That you do not talk about this amendment that is on the agenda. I'm talking about that amendment. I don't talk. You don't talk. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What does this look like, let him speak. Mr. Djurishich, please don't throw it away. You don't have to be Mr. Sutanovac's lawyer, he knows it himself enough to defend himself. Please, Mr. Djurishic, don't throw it away, and don't flaunt it with me. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Mr. Chairman, I respect your intelligence and please allow me to explain. Will you give me your word? No, no, no, (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Why? I really don't understand. Because you're not talking about the agenda. You'll have to answer it some other time. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would use the right to replicate after I've been mentioned directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39065	You got Mr. Arsic right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39066	Just so you know, Mr. Chairman, because the previous speaker didn't want to say that the state was funded by the sale of social property and that because of this sale of social property, we now have 400,000 unemployees. They didn't want to say the state financed by inflation. They did not want to say that the state financed the exchange rate from 78 to 120 dinar euros. They didn't want to say that many companies failed because of the exchange rate differences. They didn't want to say they profited from banks and tycoons. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, draw attention to them next time that the government will repay the debts, but the kidnapped will return the courts and do not complain if many of their friends are struck by the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39067	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has Dr. Zarko Obradovic, a replica of two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39068	Thank you. The truth is, the public works, I still allow myself to know a little bit more about what was going on at the Ministry of Education during the time I ran that resource than the others, so I wouldn't be so easy to give the courts about how other ministries were run. In 2011, the strike began because some trade unions sought what was not realistically possible to win. That's why the strike started, and it lasted because then the finance minister made a statement that he had about four billion money, and unfortunately because of that statement, the strike lasted almost two and a half months later. The unions when they heard that statement that there might be money, they said, "Yes, there is." Well, when there is, then we'll get that money. Unfortunately, because a third of the schools were on strike for another two months and something, and unfortunately for that reason, children are not according to that fund of classes as they should have had if it hadn't been for the strike they were supposed to get, and unfortunately we were all at a loss. That's the only truth. So, the incompetence of government members has produced, because you know how, there's Mr. Vujovic, if he doesn't know the state of the budget now and if he doesn't know how much money he has in the budget, then he doesn't have to do the job. And if he's doing that job and he's telling us the situation is like that and that's the way we need to trust him. And whoever doesn't believe, be my guest, be sure to check. When the finance minister comes and says he has money, and then he denies it, and the consequences are two months of strike, then who's to blame? Now, that was the cause, the reason for the 2011 strike. For the sake of the public, for this esteemed home, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39069	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. Replica, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39070	I asked for a replica of the public debt situation and for our citizens' sake, I have to tell you this. Yes, it is accurate that the Ministry's website said that the public debt in 31.12.2014 was 22.8 billion euros and calculated in 31.10.2015 by 24.3 billion euros. But it's shown in euros. The situation, if that same amount were shown in dollars, then the debt situation fell by a billion dollars, and if it turns out by currency, to make it clear to people, then by currency, the situation is like this. In December 31st, €9.5 billion grew by 200m to 9.7m in dollars from 8.7 to 8.8. So 100 million dollars is up and the dinars are up from 588.6 to 649. It means about 60 billion dinars. It's a state of debt, everything else is the curative differences that people know what they mean. That's the accounting category. So that's why when you calculate in dollars the value of debt falls, when you calculate in euro it's growing, but it's not a real debt measure. The real debt measure is that the debt has increased 200m euros, $100m and 60 billion dinars. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: He grew up. What? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: He grew up. ) It grew, but it was incomparably less. So it grew exactly as much as the general government deficit, not just central states, and as much as the fiscal liquidity reserves have changed. So, no more, no less, and that's how it has to be. So we can agree to express something, but we have to say including course differences. Secondly, very important, I, here, a colleague came out of the O.R., and I think the result, the purpose of this debate here, is to talk about what was proposed, to supplement it, to expand it. I have said and I repeat, it will be between nine and 10m euros that will cost the citizens of Serbia. I didn't say budget. Since you know very well that certain levels of education are funded by other levels of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39071	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39072	Dot, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39073	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've discovered the reason for the anxiety of some or one of the MPs. It took me a while, but I'm very proud to share it with you. The reason one MP's nervousness lies in a sentence that I said earlier when I said wet knots in some schools in Serbia, unfortunately, in most schools in Serbia, are worse than in the cadets. Well, then the MP was worried, because he was at school, he wasn't great. It's been decades and decades of exhausting decades of study, so he's been there and he won't be there anymore, but he's worried about those wet knots in the tapes, and that's why he showed all that anxiety during his speech, but even when he's talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39075	Please, it's not a subject, Mr. Granny, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39076	Of course I'm going back to the subject, which is, I loved it and I thought that when we are today and today we talk about the state of our education, when we talk about the amount of funds that are committed to all people in education, from preschool education to university professors, so when someone said – seven thousand dinars is little; I expected them to say – here, the AP Vojvodina and the budget of Bojan Pajtic and his clicks are ready to define additional funds for that, for educational workers. Did we get anything, any thought, any single dinar from the AP Vojvodina budget, that has the DS and Bojan Pajtic regime to define and to be given to educators? It doesn't have to be 7,000 dinars. Seven hundred dinars, that's it. Did we have such a proposal? Did Bojan Pitch think of something like that? No, of course not. He didn't have time, you know. He was in Hetherland. He was giving a million euros to the Guards company, giving them a million euros. He didn't give the educators anything. He's been giving off the symptoms of millions of dollars, but he's not an educator.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39077	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39078	Therefore, I would prefer that nervous colleagues in this room make more suggestions, so they say how ready Bojan Pajtic and the AP Vojvodina budget are to help educational workers, to help all employees in the state administration, not to deal with this waste of money. For this, I agree with one sentence, what has been taken must come back and let DS and Bojan Pajtic think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39079	Thank you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the city: I answer the word.) Mr. Sutanovac, on what basis? (Dragan Šutanovac, from the site: Based on which Babic also reported.) After the amendment? (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: "According to the amendment." ) Just to be clear, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39080	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I was interrupted a little while ago. I didn't get to finish my sentence. So this government has increased all the taxes, all the taxes that exist, the value added tax, the property tax, the profit tax, everything is increased. At the same time, if you're going to tell me that you weren't in that government, that's another thing, but this government is yours, for us it's one government. So, at the same time, we cut salaries and pensions, skillfully... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39081	They have submitted to Article 1 of the amendment... What the hell are you doing? ) Just to remind you what the subject of the amendment is, it is my right. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What did Babic say? ) Mr. Djurishic, I give you a warning because you throw all the time in the morning, I give you a warning. So, this is how the amendment says that in the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, Article 1 is deleted. It is an amendment submitted by Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Sutanovac, I'm asking you to come back, talk about the amendment, because this is a very important topic, and I'm not going to let us talk about anything but this amendment. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I don't know just... Can we do that? (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: if you let me finish? You cannot finish talking about what has nothing to do with this amendment. Dear Sutanovac, from the scene, do you realize... I don’t want to understand what you’re saying, because I don’t want you to give me any advice or explain at all. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "Give me your word." I talk about the amendment all the time. Don't talk. You didn't mention him once. Here, I'll take the stenographic notes. You didn't mention the amendment once, not once in your presentation. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, "How am I not?") You're not, Mr. Sutanovac. Here, I'd like you to take, you to read and bring me a sentence mentioning this amendment on the agenda. You didn't even mention the word amendment. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What must I say – amendment? Well, you have to talk about the amendment. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: OK, here, I'll explain.) Give me back my word. I thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: I'll be in touch all the time.) ) You have to call again, and now he's got the word Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39082	Chairman, I want to point out that today all day while you're chairing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39083	You're throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39084	... infringing Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda, which is being searched. So when MPs from your parliamentary group speak for them, Article 106 does not apply to them. They can talk about whatever they want and arrest someone and send them to jail, and I don't know what they're doing here, they show pictures. They don't have to have anything to do with the topic of discussion. And the moment someone from the opposition participates in this debate in the same way, which is much wider than these few sentences that are in the amendments that we are discussing, you take away the word and utter the warning. So I'm asking you to have the same archaic according to all MPs, that consistent Article 106. Do your rules of procedure, regardless of which side the discussion comes from, because without it this is not a parliament, but instead it is becoming the main committee of your party, where only praises about the work of the government and the prime minister can be heard. That's not why we're here. We are here to criticise what this government is doing, because we have been chosen by citizens who do not support this government. Three-quarters of the citizens didn't vote for this government and we're here as long as there is, we have the right and the obligation to talk about it and you can't stop us from doing it. Don't think your warnings and your behavior will stop us from doing that. No, I'll tell you right away. You respect the Rules of Procedure, that you treat all MPs the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39085	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Please, just what you just said, object to me, to respect you first. So, the moment you respect the Rules of Procedure, I, as chairman, must respect it. Mr. Nikolic was warned today that he was throwing it away, and he was not doing it after that. I didn't have a chance to warn him. I'm warning you... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Did he get a warning? Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away, please. I'm warning you all afternoon. There's got to be 20 times in the rocks that I warned you not to throw it away. So, in the end, I have to... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You are always in violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Djurisic, if I violate the Rules of Procedure, you answer like this, I will listen to you for two minutes and make a comment. So that's no problem at all, as you got the word a little while ago, you said what you had, I listened to you and now I'm giving an explanation. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You can't do that again. I can't break the Rules of Procedure right now. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. So, I can't, Mr. Djurishic, you know that very well. Unless you think I broke the Rules of Procedure for warning Mr. Shutanovec not to throw it away. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Djurishic, you received a warning because you threw it twenty times during the day. You have the right to speak. Answer the word, you get the word, you say no problem. But you can't throw it out of place. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You can't, Mr. Djurishich. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You did not ask me if I should vote on the injury, Article 103) The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečić, the Honorable Ministers of Vujovic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, for more than two hours, gentlemen, this morning we are discussing the amendment, which was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I to article 1 of this bill. Dear gentlemen, I believe that this is already a sign enough for all the MPs here, but also for the citizens of our Republic, that this is an important topic and that the debate is approaching in such a way that from whatever party it is spoken of, it points to the importance of what our approach is to this proposal sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. SNS MPs discussed, SPS MPs joined, MPs discussed other political parties. There are almost no parties, parliamentary ones, from which MPs did not discuss this morning. I note this, Mr. Becic, to point out to the MPs who have minimized the importance of the content of our amendments, that it is very important to debate this fundamentally what the government has proposed, but also what our reaction to such a proposal is. I'm terribly surprised, gentlemen, when the MPs here cannot understand that there are citizens of our Republic, with a wave in this case in education, in the various sub-levels of the education system in Serbia, which is what the solution is, Mr. Obradovic, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, considered a humiliation. Then I can't understand when you call here, you were Minister of Education, and then you say you don't understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39087	Please, Mr Pavicevic, you cannot address another MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39088	I'm sorry, I'll say it directly. Then I don't understand when the former Minister of Education sends us a message to the amendment that this is not the level of seriousness of the debate he expected. Also, Mr. Becic, I do not understand when some MPs discuss our amendment, as Mr. Nejko Jovanovic did, say that the adoption of our amendment would bring parliament into a blockade, gentlemen. Well, it is in no way possible to imagine the situation that if our amendment were accepted, it would result in a parliament being blocked. Why? Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic argued, he would remain a member of 2. Proposal for a law to be defined when the law enters into force. Dear gentlemen, well, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment and to Article 2, honourable gentlemen, where we have predicted that the MPs of the ruling coalition will respect the argument that we are here for two days, that they will accept our amendment to Article 1, which is said to be – the articles contained in Article 1, that, subsequently, gentlemen, they will accept our argument and amendment to Article 2, because we, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Becic, to hear, behold, MP Neđo Jovanovic, will also submit the amendment to Article 2, in which it writes - is deleted. That means, gentlemen, that we suggest that it be not accepted, that this bill not be adopted. And as a consequence, there can be no blocking of parliament in any way. We're absolutely consistent here. Minister Vujovic, gentlemen, was respected this morning, at the very beginning, so I was in the first speech, and we offered him an honest way out of this situation. The exit, Minister Vujovicu, is that by respecting the argument that has been heard, by respecting that citizens living in our Republic who hold to their dignity, who will not give charity, who wants only a reward for their own work, pay for their own work, we offered Minister Vujovic here today, on the basis of the argument he heard, withdraws the bill and thus responds to what was today's argument. It seems to me that our argument here was good, that we are thinking that it was really a good argument, but that for the sole reason of obedience to our party does not want to accept one of our proposals that adequately treats what educational workers' reaction to what the Government's bill is, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39089	Time. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39090	Thank you. Dear Ministers of Associates, I will briefly express a replica of what has been said. It's something that's becoming an inadmissible manner. We pointed out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Those who call for a business conscience, who teach us how to behave in parliament, have one manner that has been established by this calling itself, in which the same proposings are located. That is why it comes to the blockade of parliament because parliament must act effectively. The efficiency of parliament cannot be achieved in the way it is done here, and especially with the amendments "expected" which have been before, and now without adequate arguments, certainly unfounded. This consists of parliamentary blockades, and the parliamentary blockade will exist until this procedure is eradicated, and will be eradicated as soon as we intervene in the Rules of Procedure and when we prohibit these kinds of abuses of the Rules of Procedure and of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39091	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39092	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, when we talk about education, when we talk about science, I want the MPs to know that a list of the top ten universities in the world has been recently published, and that since the ten universities is seven from the United States. The United States isn't the strongest because they have the strongest army or the strongest weapons, but they're the strongest because they have the best...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39093	Please, Mr. Milisavlevich, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39094	It's about change, science and education. So what we need to do is give more attention to our education and our science, that's something we shouldn't argue about and we shouldn't fight over. I want to agree with my colleague Zoran Babic when he talked about one elemental thing, some said it's not a topic, I think it is, as I said in the introduction, is a topic. It's scandalous what conditions kids go to toilets in, and it's supposed to be one national strategy, it shouldn't be anybody's fault for this party or this party. In the previous government and President Boris Tadic, both Mr Dusan Petrovic and Minister Zarko Obradovic started the topic. It's not good when you say it – we don't have enough money. For these children, we have to have money and we need to give them really more decent conditions, I am from Toplice, and I know that school that Mr. Babic listed, it's not just that school, there are many schools where there are a lot of toilet problems. It's supposed to be a joint action, it's not supposed to be a dispute, I don't know who's going to say something against such an initiative, and I personally want to say that I support it. It should finally be done and there's no arguing about it. As for the amendments, today all day we are practically talking about whether or not we should withdraw the law, I advocate that the support of education and teachers who educate and work on the education of our young generations, and that is something that is our greatest wealth, we are poor for some other things, but we have a mind. There is much more to be paid attention to education and science. I'm going to make a public statement, and unfortunately maybe that's my grudge to my party who, in some years when she had power, didn't ask for responsibility in these halls, education and health resolutions, and that left it to coalition partners, but these are really resolutions where social justice is being shown. There's a way to lead and a way to treat these people. These people in education are something we have to respect and hear and not stand out when we're giving someone support in some kind of cash. We all need to be aware that we need to represent all kinds of teachers, professors, in some amendments you've corrected that. You have to represent everything and realize that they really work in some bad conditions. I am glad that one of these amendments has included preschool institutions and I hope that both the high profession and the universities will be covered by this amendment, because we all live hard and it is not that someone lives better or worse. So our citizens are having a hard time living, our education and science are in a difficult state, but they're still grinding something that's a diamond, which is our young and smart children. Together, we need to find a way to keep these children in Serbia so that they don't treat some other people's children, stay to treat our citizens, keep them smart here after some completed specializations and foreign masters, practically apply in our country. I think that some things are of general interest and shouldn't be broken by a spear as far as the toilet is concerned, as far as supporting the education is concerned. It's my discussion today about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39095	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39096	A strange interpretation of mathematics is working today, some MPs say the SNS did not vote three-quarters of the people in Serbia and those MPs who were not voted by 97% of the people in Serbia say that. They weren't voted by 97% of the people, but then they interpret mathematics in some weird way. I know the amendment promoter worked in education, but now I just don't know whose name and who he says this is a humiliation to education. He worked in education, now he no longer works, on a permanent working relationship at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is legitimate. Whom does it represent if this law is the fruit of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the trade union in education, of all trade unions in education? Then I can only suspect that the amendment promoter is representing and speaking on behalf of those 11 people spoken of by my esteemed colleague Aleksandar Markovic, how much they managed to collect, not even for one school doer, let alone for anything more in Novi Pazar. You and those who were not voted by 97% of the people in Serbia, those who, in a large and honorable Serbian town like Novi Pazar, are now speaking against an agreement reached by the Government of the Republic of Serbia along with educational workers, or their unions. You and those that were not voted on by 97% say this is humiliation. Ask Bojan Pajtic to add that 7,000, so it will be twice as much, much better then. I believe that this ended with Bojan Pajtic in someone else's pocket (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica, Mr Babic to answer. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39097	What did you ask Mr. Babic, Mr. Pavicevic? I don't understand what you've been trying to do all afternoon. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: said the amendment promoter. Mr. Sutanovac, you don't have any more time, your MP group doesn't have any more time. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39098	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I absolutely have no doubt that this amendment should not be accepted, as there is absolutely no dilemma at all, nor that a different outcome can occur until this is accepted, but I must express my disbelievment on my part. That we are actually witnessing such proposals today, these reasons today and these kind of words of support for something like this today. It's really hard to believe these things that we're about to listen to. We listened to them on the day we discussed them in principle. Last Thursday, we listened to a lot of heavy lies about what anyone thought, what who felt, about who was asking about this proposal, about the heavy lies. Only one of them represents how our educators treat this proposal at different levels, just one of them. Let's do it in a row. So, what's the most convincing problem here? The most convincing problem is that here some things are presented with an obvious very wrong intention, with a very bad background and with very harmful implications, potentially harmful implications, but I hope from that I sincerely hope that there will be nothing in terms of accepting or not accepting this, as far as I'm concerned, the fate of this proposal is clear. I just hope that those who try to resist criticism to show some personal dissatisfaction where there is absolutely no place to do so and with the persistent dispersion of bile about something that should be good, nice, we should be happy together, that such ones will not be able to spoil the atmosphere of this society. One thing at a time. The question of some ultimate humiliation is absolutely unacceptable formulation, absolutely unacceptable. When someone here claims that all the employees in the sector concerned by the proposed change claim this, that truth does not speak. It is true that he mentioned a forum and in this sense I am joining the evaluation of my colleague Babic and I express my own respect for the forum. So, the truth is, one forum did perform with such a formulation. On the question of whether or not anyone understands or understands why such a formula comes from that forum, for the information of everyone here – yes, of course he understands absolutely, and on that side I will not give any personal objection, because I understand that in the background of that story there is a certain chill, which absolutely is not shared by all the employees in the sector in which this change applies, but those who have shown it may not have actually understood in the best way and it is not disputed, our role is to clarify these things here. Zelena in terms of whether, at least theoretically, this measure we are dealing with through these changes is some final solution to our seeing all the problems, the troubles, the challenges of enlightenment, of course not. So no one has heard of government representatives or representatives of the congregation's majority coming out of their minds and as far as we're concerned, we've solved everything that's open about education for centuries. Of course he didn't hear and he won't hear. So there should be no misunderstandings about it. But let's deal with elemental logic. So once again, I'm undermining this doesn't mean that we've stopped dealing with the issues of education, this doesn't mean that we'll never put our finger on the head again on what it looks like to any citizen, any of us, not just in this sector, but let's do one more elemental logic. We've been here all the time, here for two hours now, it's no praise whatsoever, it doesn't say anything in favour of the seriousness of this proposal. On the contrary, it speaks of persistent insistence on completely wrong things that time costs as much as they cost. So, we are constantly advised here that we should accept the next position – it is better that some money support is not provided but provided. What's reasonable about that? What's logical about that? Is there any other kind of choice to be proposed, to agree or not to agree that it is better not to help, but to help? Come on, please, there's absolutely nothing else to suggest. Some others in this hall are persistently taking advantage of every opportunity to also express criticism where it cannot be done in an even-formed way, but still retain sufficient raid to add all this - which does not mean that we will vote against. Today I hear they support these proposals. Now, what does that mean? Someone to change their mind. In my view, it means something else, something even harder and scarier, that it absolutely doesn't matter to some in this room whether they're up to a proposal or against a proposal. All they care about is being against this government, opposing this majority, and if they can do as much damage as possible to the general atmosphere in our society at any price. This kind of proposal differently, with all due respect, and we know each other well, we met here, that I can't understand. Furthermore, how have these laws changed, and is that the reason for some dissatisfaction, in particular this proposal? They've changed for the better, ladies and gentlemen, for the better. So that's no reason to adopt an amendment that says that this is now to be rejected and that it's gone at all. We started with something that provides certain financial support to a particular category of our employees. What have we changed to? To expand the circle of those who need to receive that support and to raise funds. Is that better or worse? It's better. Then what did we do? We have another correction through the committee amendment. We have further expanded the circle of those who need support and now we need to accept just because someone in a different way cannot express his own dissatisfaction that it is a sin and going from something to even worse, etc. Let's once again, the elemental logic and pray that these things are not discussed today or at any time at all, because the only thing that's humiliating in this whole story is toying with the support of those people that some people are invited to, and who are also supposed to be, to be properly covered by these measures, by the measures that are meant to represent something that is good and useful to them. The least anyone can say is – great, something happened, not bad, on the contrary, we move on. At least that's it. Personally, I'd be even more pleased to be in the circle of those to whom this measure applies, but I'm not getting into who needs to feel. Minimum is correctness – this is good and we move on. All that remains as an open challenge will be solved further by common forces. What's convincingly the worst thing in the whole story, and what I've seen in this explanation, the written explanation of the amendment is this negative implication that, with all the efforts to make someone here a bad atmosphere, I see in the last position of the argument, trying to add to the argument, to explain how here now suddenly someone's been privileged because this is proposed. What's that supposed to mean? That everyone else should be unhappy and angry with those who are covered or who suggests? Well, it's not like that. It's only when we learn to function as one family and one team that we've repeated it over and over again that we have a basis for getting better. We should be looking forward to anything good and useful to anyone in our environment, not to be entrenched and not to spill another ton of bile where it doesn't belong. This, ladies and gentlemen, not to be accepted, is something like this never and nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39099	Thank you. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Pavicevic, I really could not in any way connect you to Mr. Orlic's exposure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: What was Mr Orlic talking about? ) He talked about the atmosphere in the O.R., about the debate on amendments, but Mr. Pavicevic did not mention you in any sentence, nor did he insult you. I don't want to be with you at all... The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39100	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am one of those MPs who has no problem accepting the suggestion, no matter who the suggestion comes from. Every suggestion, every amendment that is right in my opinion, which is in the interest of the Serbian citizens, I accept and therefore can say that I am voting with both hands for the proposal given by my colleague Sutanovac and I support him, to return kidnapped, but also to add, to return and what has been stolen and at the same time to match those who have kidnapped, to respond to those who have stolen, to the investigative authorities and courts doing their job, so, if necessary, let someone go to prison or as our people say, in prison. It's something I could accept. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is deleted, and if I follow what my colleagues have proposed this amendment, I must say that I cannot accept it. Here's why. It's a big holiday today, Djurdzic. Today, much of Serbia celebrates, and I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all those who respect this saint and celebrate this day, and today I will meet among the hosts at a celebration with a decent man in Grocko who is always an opposition, and with us Serbs it is well known – we are mostly against power, but when we vote, we vote for power. There will be a lot of my fellow educators there, and I will be in a position for them to ask me when I vote for this amendment -- who gave you the right to wipe out our seven thousand dinars and not to come into this situation so that they ask me to red out there, so I say immediately that I won't vote for that amendment, because I don't think I have the right to erase those seven thousand dinars for those who want to accept it. Those who don't want to accept it, I agree right away that it's not much, that it's not much, to say that it's little I'm not the one who can decide on their behalf, but I mean, I guess with good intentions it was made this proposal, but also the promoters have the right to make mistakes. I hope that in the future we will all be more constructive, that we will try to find the best solutions that are in the interests of citizens, that is, in the interests of those whom they refer to and that we will not have more long and infertile discussions, than that we will really be more effective and that we will try to do something that is in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and help those who are trying, and we have given them confidence to lead Serbia, we have given them confidence to be in government. I think they work in the best interests of Serbian citizens. I can disagree with one of the ministers. I can disagree with my colleague Verbic because it's the easiest place for me to say something. I think I'd be a better minister and find some better solutions. In this situation we have a solution that will satisfy one, I mean, quite a large number of educators and we have no right to delete it on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39101	I thank Mr Stojmirovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr Pavicevic, I understand that today you are in the presentation of every MP, but you must understand that you must be filled with parliamentary and business provisions, that they must mention you in a negative context, that they must mention your name and name, and that you are in their reply or in their explanation, which is why they believe that this amendment should not be accepted, I cannot find anything there. Thank you. We move on to Article 1. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shajip Kamberi. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39102	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, on April 24, this year, the government, i.e. The Ministry of Education signed an agreement with the Educational Workers' trade unions, which, among other things, provides for one-off assistance at the height of a single salary to be paid to educators by the end of 2015. It is this amendment that we are trying to restore the focus of this debate on this law to what the Government is, i.e. The Ministry of Education took over by signing the agreement. It is personally incomprehensible to me that an institution at such a high level as the ministry is just passing over the commitments it has signed and signed on the agreement. Otherwise, with these austerity measures, the government has already reduced the incomes of 30 to 60 000 dinars on an annual basis. Just by adopting this amendment, we are trying to sort out and make a satisfactory solution for both sides. A moment ago, New Market and education in Novi Pazar were mentioned at a moment of discussion, so I would remind my colleagues to get into the issue of education and these classrooms in Novi Pazar a little bit better. For more than eight years, your coalition partner Rasim Ljajic has been in power in Novi Pazar. I have tried years ago to answer the question – how and who has made it possible for almost all primary and secondary schools in Novi Pazar for many years, i.e. Who's allowed the situation that their accounts have been blocked for years? Who allowed our students in primary and secondary schools to attend classes in cold classrooms, gathered around a heater? So I've also asked the Ministry of Education, and I haven't received an answer yet, so it would be good, when you mention New Market, to take these facts into account, as well as to consider the fact that over 80% of the population of the Bosniak national minority also lives in Novi Pazar, where they are unable to exercise their rights to education, what is guaranteed to them by the Constitution and the laws of this country. It was good that, when you mention Novi Pazar, you also take into account that fact, as well as to consider the fact that it is allowed for school directors and school heads to suspend the Constitution, the laws and to suspend the Government's 2013 Regulation on teaching in the Bosnian language...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39103	Mr. Imamovic, please return to the amendment. We're not talking about education and education in New Market, but we have an amendment that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39104	I am also talking about the whole discussion that has been going through the debate and the previous amendments, so I see no reason why previous MPs have also mentioned education and classrooms in Novi Pazar, and you have not responded. As a New Market MP, I have an obligation to draw attention to the fact that there is a situation in Novi Pazar and in the cold classrooms in Novi Pazar, so I want to take this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39105	The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39106	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. I'll try to explain. I work in education and education and receive salaries in a work organisation. Therefore, there is no reason for me to court my fellow educators. But if we would accept this amendment that is now in front of us, to give one-time cash aid to an average employee, what would that lead to? They would have violated the Republic of Serbia's 2015 budget. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen, MPs? It means that we would automatically violate the government's 2015 work programme, because exactly in the Prime Minister's exposé we said what we were going to do in 2015. This is the realization of what is in the government's programme, that is, in the exposé of the Prime Minister. What else would happen if they gave more or less, as suggested by "academic honesty"? They would violate the financial consolidation measures we promoted on 27 April 2015. That's the point of the problem. I pray, when we talk about these amendments and this law, that we keep in mind the government programme of the Republic of Serbia. The government is just holding on to the program, to apologize, for being drunk, which is good, because that's how we're going to implement the reforms that we've promoted. Thirdly, we would prove to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if we accepted this amendment, that we would not stick to the promises we made as MPs who voted for the programme of government or exposure and that we would avoid the Greek scenario in which we were brought by the former government of the former regime, not this government. This government is resuscitating the situation and pulling us out of the economic crisis. We wouldn't have, I'm sorry to say this, there's an economist here, I'm not an economist, I'm not stability of public finances, and we're also told by the government's programme and the Prime Minister's exposé that we need public finances to be aware of a certain extent, etc. As soon as we don't have the stability of public finances, we don't have the stability of another in the country at all. This would lead to instability, given the situation in the environment, etc. So we have to strictly stick to the program that we've plotted. By accepting this amendment, the fiscal deficit would not have been reduced to a sustainable level, and that is what we have said by the government's 2015 programme. Here, ladies and gentlemen, which is why I suggest that this proposal be rejected and the government's proposal accepted. And finally, Mr. Chairman, in order for there to be no confusion, I will address it in one sentence. Gentlemen Educational Workers, you will get seven thousand, it is not true that you will not, we have a majority about this National Assembly, and those who have suggested that you do not need anything, they receive “academic honesty. ” He's getting paid in this assembly, and he didn't give the counterproposal. So, you'll get it for New Year's Eve. The second proposal, to avoid confusion, is not for next year, but a one-time payment, and next year is four percent more than anyone in January, the sector, because the confusion is one MP, who was a former minister and damaged this budget of the Republic of Serbia by 470 million, said and went out because he comes here every three months. Therefore, I suggest that this amendment be rejected, in order for our educators to get, at least once, help. But this is a sign that the government is coming out of a crisis. Now, that's sorry to Mr. "Academic Honesty". Not those 7,000, but what the government and the state of Serbia are coming out of the crisis because it did not make a counterproposal. He didn't make the counterproposal, he was just cursing the government. Here, you see here in this explanation. It's very irresponsible, even if it came from a university of political sciences professors, to call the government irresponsible and irresponsible. I don't think that's right. Therefore, I propose, Mr. Chairman, that we adopt this law, reject the amendment both, and so on. Thank you very much for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39107	Mr. Atlagic, you have reported on another amendment, the amendment of the group of MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi, and you mentioned in your amendment to some doctor, so... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica! Mr. Pavicevic, your amendment has passed. I can't tell Mr. Atlagic's exposure to a doctor when none of this group of MPs think he's a doctor or something. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: But it is known who is "academic congratulation". I don't understand, Mr. Pavicevic, your attempts continue. The word has been given by MP Djordje Milicevic, as head of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39108	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Atlagic said something in which we fully agree. So we will not support this amendment in the voting day, for the space of reason, because it is not characterized by the economic possibilities of the state and it is not characterized by what is reality, when we talk about a budget that is based on sound foundations and that needs to be our goal -- a budget based on sound foundations. We've got two things here. We have something on one side that represents a list of good wishes, and if we realized that list of good wishes, we would surely come and go towards financial ruin. On the other hand, we have something that is the continuation of structural reforms, essential structural reforms, the continuation of reform processes, and that is the path and direction that leads to the ultimate goal that we all seek, which is a improvement for citizens. As a responsible and serious party, of course we are always defined for what is reality and what is the interest of Serbian citizens. I think that when we speak specifically of this amendment, we should not in the Republic Parliament say what the citizens would like to hear from us, not fairy tales, but what is real. You'll get a chance to talk after me. We view the bill we are talking about today as just one kind of support, the current support for, as the minister has defined, 160,000 educational workers in Serbia and we believe and we believe that in the period ahead, precisely thanks to positive and good indicators in the budget, we will be able to resolve this issue in a better way. When we talk specifically about this proposal, the government, in this way, according to us, shows the readiness to talk to the unions first and the government has spoken to representatives of the unions. On the other hand, it shows its readiness to help and support educational workers in Serbia. It's not true that the government doesn't do anything about it and it's not true that this can be defined as some kind of marketing move, because -- what is it? There's no parliamentary election. This, therefore, is, in our view, one responsible proposal that has just been characterized by what I said at the beginning, and these are the economic possibilities of the budget, the budget that is based on sound foundations. We would like and wish that this amount is far greater and we understand educational workers in Serbia and understand the difficult situation in which education workers are located, but also on the other hand we have to look at something that is reality. Reality, I will repeat for who knows which time, when we talk about a budget based on sound foundations and our goal is a sustainable economic system, our goal is to fully realise the plan and the economic consolidation programme of the Government of Serbia and our goal is to feel better in all sectors, in all areas of society, but a improvement that wants to be based precisely on healthy foundations. We view this as another one in a series of economic policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we are convinced that the government will continue to move towards accelerated economic and dynamic growth in the coming period. There was little talk of economic indicators. So, we believe that clear and visible are serious signs of economic recovery of fiscal and economic consolidation and that they are precisely the result of the responsible, serious and committed work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, heavy measures have been taken to address the state of public finances in Serbia, and thanks to the reform processes that have started, we can look optimistically at the period ahead – both in 2016 and 2017. So, economic recovery is, in our opinion, a national priority. We absolutely believe that no one has the right to take irresponsible moves, irresponsible proposals call into question the realisation of this key objective because of the implementation of this key objective, the economic recovery, depends on the realisation of a number of key objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just thanks to the results Serbia has achieved, Serbia today is among the leading countries, i.e. the most recognizable countries by the results. That is precisely why many countries respect Serbia. Mr Atlagic also mentioned something for a little while, which I also fully agree with, so what is the point? We have to make money, we have to spend far less than what we earn, we have to keep working towards reducing public debt, budget deficits, and we have to make economic growth and economic recovery possible. In addition, along with the implementation of modern and system-based laws adopted in the Republic's parliament and with a clear plan of fiscal and economic consolidation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, results are visible. So, thanks to the reform processes that have started and are being implemented, we have created a real, stable and secure basis that can enable development, we have created a real, stable and secure basis that can enable economic and economic growth and that wants to make it possible for citizens to improve. Today it is quite clear that the programme of economic recovery and fiscal consolidation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not a programme or political declaration and is not made up for some kind of political survival tactics, political points, it is a serious strategy that just implies what has already been said, which is brave, difficult, determined and economically, political steps and economic and political decisions, but which lead to what is better for citizens. So reforms are being implemented right now for citizens, not for political marketing and political popularity of political parties. Once again, we are not able to vote in favour of this amendment because it does not represent what reality is at a given moment, is not characterized by the economic capabilities of the state, i.e. the economic possibilities of the budget that must and should be based on sound foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39109	Thank you. Mr. Imamovic, would you like another word for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39110	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues from the ruling majority generally agreed on one finding, which is that this amendment allegedly violates the Republic of Serbia's budget, that it is marketing, that it is populist. It is also said that it is something that the citizens of us would like to hear, it is also said that it is a list of good wishes, but again I return you to the fact that this amendment stemmed from the agreement that the Ministry of Education signed with the Union of Educational Workers of Serbia and the Union of Workers in Enlightenment of Serbia on 24 April 2015. So I think that all these criticisms, as I recall, we didn't hear when this agreement came into force. We know that this agreement has been signed to end the strike of educational workers and we have not heard such criticism from the ruling majority when the Minister of Education signed this agreement which, I will remind you, is still valid and is still in force, and we are not in parliament, nor has the government put it out of force. Therefore, when we try to restore the government and the Ministry of Education to something that they have committed to agree with educational workers, we do not in any way violate the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we do not engage in marketing and populism. If you accept that the minister is enlightened when he signed this agreement with marketing and populism, we will accept that this amendment does the same thing. But we haven't heard that from you and I'm still waiting to see what we're gonna do with that agreement before we start criticizing this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39111	Thank you, Mr. Imamovic. The word is Mr. Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39112	It is this legislative proposal that results, among other things, from the talks that were held on the relation of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the union. You got it all wrong. It's not about any criticism, it's about the real insight into the situation we're in right now, when we're talking primarily about the economic possibilities of the state. When I say populistism and political marketing, if I have to speak specifically, you were part of the ruling coalition in Serbia from 2008 to 2012. You were also part of the ruling coalition in Serbia from 2012 to 2014. In December 2009, one-time assistance was paid to educational workers of 5,000 dinars, and then the demands of educators were far greater. In 2012, you were part of the government, paid the Svetosavian Prize of 4,000 dinars. I think that even then the demands of educators were far higher. You then, because of your dissatisfaction and for, call, support did not find it appropriate to leave the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but supported it all. Economic policy must be based and must be socially sustainable. Reforms aim precisely at the lives of citizens, to provide life for citizens and to improve citizens. This trend is going towards a better one. So it's not about any stagnation, it's not about any backwardness, we're not going back, but it's about something positive, something's earned, and it's about supporting educational workers in Serbia. You know how, it is legitimate for you to have a critical view of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and doing. This right absolutely can't and doesn't want anyone to take away from you, but when you use that right and when we specifically talk about economic policy, then let's hear and hear about the alternative, and that's not a demagogy that leads to financial collapse. Economic indicators are one thing, economic facts are poor, and political marketing is something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39113	Mr. Imamovic, would you like another word for the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39114	The Honorable Chairman, again, I am trying, for what time do I return the focus of the debate to essence, and the essence is that a member of this government, the Minister of Education in this government, has signed a valid agreement, which still has not been put out of force by this law, which the government has been silently putting out of force. We talked about some previous circumstances. I agree that education workers should only be given an increase, if we think we are moving forward and if we think we are promoting our education, but when we talk about the circumstances that were 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013, then we didn't talk about the circumstances when the educators were reduced salaries, so they were on those higher salaries they were receiving, receiving compensations of 5,000 dinars, 4,000 dinars, etc. Today we are talking about circumstances, when the austerity measures are reduced pay and gross, and then we pay them one symbolic fee, I'm not saying it's worse than nothing, it's symbolic compensation, but don't forget that we pay 30 to 60,000 dinars at the annual level this year than it was in 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013. So let's not talk about populistism, because when we talk about populistism we're talking about an agreement, then we're talking about an agreement signed by this minister. So, I keep returning you to this government's agreement, to the effect of the agreement that this government is signing. If anything goes to that signature, let's respect that signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39115	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. He's not an applicant for the amendment here, and you want to follow that amendment. Here you go. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39116	Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our entire parliamentary group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party – Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted a series of amendments relating to Article 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. All these amendments include this amendment, and the bottom line is that we are asking that all public sector employees who have reduced salaries return to the level before pay cuts because it was done without a legal basis then, as a lex specialis and it is time for this government to find other ways to charge the budget. We have proposed in the discussions several measures that could fill the budget, which are very real, very enforceable, but not accepted by the government, but went to a reduction in wages and pensions. I don't want to waste any more of my time with the MPs' group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39117	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Marko Djurisic, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39118	Thank you, Chairman. After two minutes, please count the time of the head of the parliamentary group. The amendment, its essence, is that instead of these six, then seven thousand employees, first in primary and secondary, and then a higher education was added, and today a preschool education, obviously we MPs didn't know how much money the government had to share. When we came to this session and wrote the amendments, we heard something from you ministers, obviously that the amount has also changed, because since Thursday's debate, that amount has increased, or nearly 29,000 people will be covered by this aid, as you have called it in your presentation. We believe that a fairer solution is to return to all employees and pensioners the amount for which they were reduced a year ago, for which wages were reduced, or pensions. The explanation you gave for not accepting this amendment is very interesting to me. It says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is not enforceable because the Law is still in force by temporary setting the basis for the salary calculation, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from the users of public funds. We know that, we ask that this law be withdrawn and that at a delayed session yesterday, MPs will declare our proposal to put the law out of force. They say it negatively for the previous two months, but we think it should be passed that law and then this difference, and the difference is, let's say on average somewhere probably 50,000 dinars, specifically for the employees of education, at a level of one year's pay cut. If the average salary is 40,000 now in education, it means that it was about 45,000, 44,000 before the increase, so ten percent, so four thousand a month, four and a half, it doesn't matter, that's about 50,000 we can come by. It may be a smaller amount, but it's certainly far greater than the 7,000 you're offering them today, far greater, and that's why we're embarrassing, and that's why we don't support this law. It's not because we think that employees in education should not get this, but we think they should get what was wrongly taken from them a year ago. That's our policy. The second part of the reasons for the refusal of amendments is even more interesting. Also, given that the said law is of temporary character, salary, i.e. employees' earnings in public funds as well as pensions, it will be possible to increase after fulfilling the specific fiscal rule defined in Article 27e of position 28. The law on the budgetary system which requires the implementation of the general government salary rate in GDP to up to seven percent, i.e. pensions in GDP up to 11%. Now, I'm wondering if you're following the law in everything you're doing. If you stick to the law, where's the draft budget law for 2016? The Budget Law tells you to stay in the Assembly at the latest on November 1st. It's Monday, November 16th. I hope we can agree on that. So you're 16 days late. By law, the law applies to everything, I believe, in this country. I'm also curious how, if this law applies, you'll increase your salary by as much as you told us here on Thursday when we held a debate in principle and you and the prime minister, or pensions by 1.25%? Does this mean that the conditions of the Budgetary System Act, Article 27, paragraph 28, are met, or are you going to break the Law again and increase pensions for nothing? And why am I saying it's nothing? Because when you say inflation, then you say -- there's no inflation in Serbia, or there's nothing. And I tell you -- inflation in Serbia is 2%, and 2% is greater than 1.25% of how much you will increase pensions. So, realistically, pensions will be less to everyone, not bigger, as you claim. We believe that these harmful laws should be put out of force, that citizens should be paid for the difference, and that the government should be taken seriously. Because what is the result of implementing these measures? The smallest growth and development of Serbia in countries in the region, according to the IMF, the IMF that you are calling and calling on here and think they are the most measureable to talk about success and results. The smallest growth in the region is 2.6%, in Serbia it will be 0.5 or 0.75. There's no less. Debt's growing. You calculated 200m euros, plus $100m, plus 60 billion dinars, 60 billion dinars is 500m euros. Debt has grown this year. You can't say that it isn't and that it isn't and that this is paid off by some new value that was created, because it wasn't created. And that's the problem, because this government didn't bring any development measures a year ago, because there's no development and there's not going to be any investment in this year. The level of investment in this year is lower than in the last year, and in the past less than in the previous year. No foreign investment, no domestic investment, no state investment. You saved on the budget, you saved 2% of the budget because you didn't spend money on investment from the budget. Without these investments, there is no future for growth and development, it can't. The level of social product in Serbia is lower today than in 2011, 33 billion and something was then, the euro, and today it is smaller than that, and this year it will be smaller than that. For three and a half years, this government has been in charge. You told us about you coming 15 months ago. But we don't only compromise here on what was done 15 months ago. You were talking about the condition you found. Well, you found him after two, two and a half years of incompetent authority, a bad policy that led to these bad consequences. But these measures aren't enough. I'm telling you, next year with this planned salary and pension increase, the deficit won't go down. It's going to be the same or greater than 4% this year and then you're going to raise the VAT at some point next year and then you're going to raise taxes to secure money in the budget for this increase. That's not what you're talking about. You say, "We've saved up, so we'll increase." We're not saving, but we're going to raise the excises 4% or 5%, how much we're going to charge the fuel next year to find these funds to how much we're going to raise in the next year for payouts and pensions. Since this is about education, I'd just like to see how now the educational workers, say, who teach the math kids, teach their students, and tell them like this—let's see if you've learned to collect and subtract, you've had 50 apples and someone comes and takes five and then gives you back after a while two, do you have more or less than you had at the beginning? This government has said they have more, and children in primary school need to learn from these educators that it's less because it's mathematics. It's math. How do you think we motivate educators to do their job? Is this how they're supposed to teach kids at school, this is how they're taught math? (Zoran Babic, from the scene: "What about inflation"? ) Inflation is 2%, 2% this year, Mr. Babic, who you throw out of a place that knows which way, and the chairman can't say a word to you. Two percent, and you're increasing pensions 1.25%. If the Budgetary System Act hadn't changed last year, that increase would have been 2% by now, one percent in October, 0.5% in April and 0.5% in October of this year, so it said in the law, in a law that is valid and that you call upon when it suits you. When I ask you – where is the 2016 budget by law, there is no answer, by law. How are you going to raise your salary and pensions under that law if we stick to the drunk law, as one colleague here said? Or we'll change the law, as we're changing it today, so we've started helping six thousand educators in primary and secondary education, so we've raised to seven, so we've added high today preschool. We cannot participate equally in this discussion, because we do not know how much money you have that you want to give to the citizens of Serbia. You didn't write that anywhere. The number changes from day to day. We call on you to adopt our amendment, I call on fellow Members, although the government has said not to adopt. This amendment corrects the injustice we made to Serbian citizens, a large number of Serbian citizens, a decision by parliament a year ago. I call on the government to come here, once this amendment is adopted, with measures that will mean and allow for Serbia's development, development, growth, employment, a better life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39119	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39120	If we can, before I speak, clarify who I answer to, since there are a few amendments to the different proposals in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39121	Amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39122	Okay, so we're responding to that part. Your amendment reads to break the fact of the law that reduced wages a year ago. After that, there is a tirade with facts that are not at all connected, they have nothing to do with it, they have no logic. Your amendment requires that we cancel a key move that we have entered into reforms that we want to heal Serbia's budget and allow Serbia to exit to a healthy economic field. By returning this, we would give up the program one time and, secondly, we would return to that way of sunflowers that you have arranged for us. I answer – you passed the Ministry Act on 24 April 2014 and we were elected to the Government by this law three days later, by this Parliament. Your stories about three and a half years are completely legally unfounded and factually unfounded. Secondly, the return of this, there was a one-time suspension of the programme, the return of the programme to zero would be the return to that 8.8% deficit line from July 2014, the Sunflower and the bankruptcy of the state. In that sunroof, I already told you, if it was good for you, the state of Serbia was bad. To increase at the expense of growth, galloping debt growth is completely pointless. I understand your need to artificially display pictures of the debt, but that's also completely incorrect. As I was saying, the state was only in charge of what was necessary to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39123	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39124	Well, I can't answer that way. Then I won't answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39125	I must respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Minister. (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: The MP speaks for 20 minutes, then how can I answer, I can't time to... ) These are parliamentary provisions. Business provisions. (Dusan Vujovic, from the scene: Pure Untruth speaks, can't list the lies he is telling. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, a National MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the amendment promoter. Just in light of the amendment, he has to give us some indicators. I wish he'd given us an explanation where a billion and a half euros from the sale of Mobtel went missing? Or where did it go about seven billion euros in privatisation? Or where did four and a half billion euros in foreign exchange reserves go? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What reserves? ) Foreign reserves, don’t act naive.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39127	Mr. Sutanovac, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39128	Four and a half billion euros were sold by the National Bank from 2008 to 2012. Even your governor admitted it, and you think it's funny to me it's not. Then you talk from one to two percent inflation. The budget is full of business, and you've been filling the budget from selling social assets and loans. You didn't care about the economy. Now all of a sudden you care about the recruits and the pensioners. So why didn't you worry while you were raising your loans? You bought social peace. It's come to an end. There is nothing left to sell or perhaps you have a desire to sell both Telecom and Elektroprivreda Serbia and to end it. What do we do after? - Should we print the money? Tell us which friends of yours have ended these billions of euros since you defend them? The D.A. is attacking them, the prosecutor is writing them criminal charges, running lawsuits, you're defending them. You say -- they're good people, they hire 30,000 people. From where? How much did they lose their job for? So if there's anything we want to be, let's do it first, we have to start the economy. You're talking about foreign investment. Who wanted to invest in a country that sells an annual billion euros in foreign exchange reserves. Who wanted to invest in a country where national currency lost 10% at least a year. Who wanted to invest in a country where inflation is 10, 12, 15, 20%? Who wanted to invest in a country where every official of yours had to go from local self-government to republican organs to grease his pocket? Who's going to invest in that country? That's where you brought her. You represent as a foreign investment in sales of "Maxia" "Delezu", a trade chain is selling you foreign investment. Foreign investment is new jobs, man. New value. New incomes for pensioners and persons employed in education and for the budget and for PIO funds and for health care funds. That's how you run the country. Why didn't you take her all those years? You think you can simply, like on a computer, press one button, reset the system, and start over. Well, it can't, it's all ruined. The economy doesn't exist. We're trying to get her up and the indicators are that we're doing it. You do not admit that something is changing in Serbia for the better. And then you say, "Let us increase; and you have increased in loans and in sale of wealth." Sell your apartments then, sell your houses. What does that look like? What's a state, someone private? It belongs to everyone. That you didn't take care of her while you were in power, but you sold her out as someone arrived, what he liked. You're telling me it's not true when the famous Miskovic told then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic – if you don't postpone my taxes, I will fire people on the street. And then this same Prime Minister Cvetkovic went on his feet to Miskovic. And you wanted to run the country? The state was taken to you by Miskovic and the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39129	The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39130	Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on amendments, as well as in Friday's debate in principle, we actually listen to as much about this amendment as a bunch of economic parameters that essentially, I think, don't go to the opposition political parties at all. If you look at these parameters, then you can understand that Serbia today looks better economically than, not in the last year or two, but never in its history. We can pollute today, but it can't break with a budget deficit of one or one and a half percent, or 50 billion dinars. There's no controversy about it. We cannot compromise with the fact that the state of Serbia costs 46% of the social gross product and that it is one of the most expensive countries in Europe. If it hadn't been for the measures we took in December, what the minister started telling you would have been much higher today. The budget's savings on the basis of the staff expenditure classification are 10%. Educational staff expenditure is 3% as much as anywhere in Europe. And these are parameters that are undeniable. These are economic rules and principles. Today we're hearing about budget rebalancing. How can this be budget rebalance? Budget corrections are normal. It can happen in one year, Serbianly translated, budget corrections. But why is it that this is the budget rebalance? Because for the first time, Serbia adheres to the principles of budget relativity in planning. For the first time, the Prime Minister, the finance minister, when they planned the budget, when they planned it by sticking to the principles of full formality and the principle of essence, did not make a mistake in the principle of budget reality. The budget is a real and planned category. That is why you are the potential and the minister says to you – yes, we have not been wrong; and we do not single out the funds that we are making today from the economic classification that we are changing. These funds are in current reserves. We don't change the budget, we don't talk about budget rebalancing. Essentially, we are today holding back with this kind of change and this amount of financial resources the reality of the budget and I can theoretically understand that we are ten years ago, when one part of the opposition may not recognize, advocates not a classical economic model in the budget, but a modern economic model that says – yes, cyclical budgets are possible and it is possible to automise stability. That's not true anymore. Europe, the world is returning today to a classical economic principle and Germany says and boasts that it adheres to a new model of budgetary soundness that says it can only be spent as much as it has. What are we doing today, not accepting this amendment, in fact, advocating? To spend as much as we have and we never took someone in December in 2014 but to spend as much as we have. It is a great pleasure, of course, for both the SNS and all MPs in the Assembly that we can increase the financial resources allocated to the public sector on the basis of staff expenditures, but this is more than what the minister, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, is proposing today, involves economic collapse and Serbia's collapse in the coming period. Does anyone want to risk saying – We want to increase public spending, staff expenditure because it is politically pragmatic and that in 2018, 2019 we end up with a public debt that we cannot service and that we are in a position not to pay the expenses we have. Fiscal consolidation, i.e. spending as much as we have is essential not only in Serbia today, but also in all modern monetary economies regarding the budget. That's why there's no reason to oversimplify the economic categories. Fortunately, the SNS, the government and all of us who represent this side are as good as never. Our individual perception of funding the state can be different. It is filled with a political stance, but key macroeconomic parameters are there and it can no longer be removed by anyone. In 2015 and 2016, we hope that this trend will be even better and even bigger, but also inflation of 2%, a social gross product that grows to 1% when the trend is reversed, a reduction in unemployment rate, three key macroeconomic parameters, but never forget a less reference rate in Serbia's history of 4.5%. These are things that push Serbia's economy and Serbian society to make it look better economically. Perhaps not well enough, but it is realistic and it is the essence and non-acceptability of this amendment and budget for 2015 and the 2016 budget. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39131	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, do you want the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39132	I'm sorry the minister can't accept that there are some rules here. I obeyed you and the Prime Minister for a few hours Thursday, I didn't get two minutes to answer. Those are the rules here. I didn't abuse any rules about the discussion I have here. So this says the deficit is down by record and I don't know 1%, 50 billion this year. I'm telling you, it could've been a surplus, you could've cut wages and pensions 20%, so it would've been a surplus, but who would've survived? These people in Serbia can't survive. These measures are stifling Serbia's development. There is no development and growth with this kind of policy. We need to save in the salary budget. Fire the 100,000 people you've hired over the past four years. Your party trolls...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39133	Can you talk about the amendment, Mr. Djurishic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39134	... who sit in public enterprises and state administration and do nothing. If it's to be found, here's the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39135	Mr. Djurishic, a little bit about your amendment to speak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39136	I'm talking about the amendment and I'm responding to what was in the debate on my amendment and where the money from the past years was. Here you are from the Ministry of Finance site so there is no confusion again, it is called – the current Marko-economic movement in October 2015. The largest exporters in Serbia "Fiat Cars Serbia" – 950m euros, "Gelezara" Smederevo 247...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39137	Mr. Djurishic, a little about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39138	... Tiger Tyres, Oil Industry of Serbia, Tetrapapas Salesksn, Gorenje, Petrochem, Hemofarm, Philip Morris, Jura...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39139	Thank you. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: When did these companies start working? ) Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why did you take my word? Give me back my word. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The MPs Aleksandar Senic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39140	I thank the chairman. As I said earlier, our parliamentary group has submitted a whole series of amendments to Article 1. The draft law supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, which, apart from the amendments that Đurisic has already explained and which has included all public sector users who have reduced salaries, we are resolutely covering users of funds in the public sector who have reduced salaries and we suggest that salaries return to the level of pre-reduction. We're going to vote this afternoon whether to put it on the agenda to put aside the power of the Lex Specials Act, which has reduced salaries, because we suggested that it be put on the agenda, and in the light of all these amendments, you state that because of this law, they cannot be adopted by the amendment. There's a chance to remove the interference. What has particularly intrigued us that we are dealing with this problem in this way is that in Article 1, you predict that employees, I say now in education, because you no longer know who and who will pay, pay a one-time sum of six, or seven thousand dinars. It all changes from hour to hour and day. All I can say is that I'm very happy if preschool education is covered, but I wonder what funds they'll pay off from. This is how important, the most important act adopted by the Assembly, which is the budget for the year for which it is adopted and which is already late for next year, has been submitted by the draft law supplementing this most important act with an explanation in one sentence and that is not enough, of course. What is proposed to pay a one-time fee to educational workers in whatever extent is definitely adopted, whether it is basic, secondary, higher, higher, higher education and preschool education, or just some of them, is actually helping educational workers. You know who's being helped, given to social cases. In this way you indirectly admit that the employees of education have become in some way social cases in this society and it is no wonder that they have protested so much. Earlier in the years when they were given help with what their colleague was talking about, relief was granted without a previous wage reduction. Now the reduction in wages has caused an even more difficult situation and, of course, help is then given. To be clear, we are not against helping educators, but we want to correct the injustice against everyone, to return the wages to the level that was before the law that reduced the wages was passed. In particular, this amendment concerns employees in the system of state administration and local self-government. In addition to what is stated in the explanation, I would like to remind you that the perception of public opinion, as well as the analysis carried out by the EU, is that in the authorities of the state administration and local self-government as well as in health and education, corruption still remains in place in all areas covered by the reduction of wages. By reducing wages and bringing employees in these areas to a low level of opportunity for life, in the situation that they are without means to survive, of course increasing their risk of succumbing to corruption and taking bribes. In addition, this encourages not only greater development of corruption but also black work, as people are accepted to work overtime on any job to make extra money. Here, since education is at stake, let us take an example, if a married couple works in education, their total incomes are as much as one consumer basket. They have to make extra money in some way. A worse situation is if one of his mates works in education, and the other is not busy at all, what is it that this family survives and educates children? So I say - we are not against helping them, but we are in favour of putting off the power of the Lex specialis and returning salaries to all employees in the public sector. As I said earlier, the government has the opportunity to make development programmes, to collect unpaid tax debts, to set up assets in a list of the assets it has and the revenues it has from that property. We've had other specials here that refer to different types of sold assets. It's fortunate they didn't come into effect, and that's why I urge you to reconsider all of our amendments, because the negative consequences, I think, are longer and more difficult to correct if this situation continues to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39141	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Did you sign up for the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39142	Yeah. Thank you, Chairman. I don't understand why I had just been taken from my word while talking about what kind of harmful policy is being run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment stipulates that employees in the state administration system and local self-government who are the basis for payment and payment of salaries are reduced by 10% on the basis of a law passed a year ago, to have that basis returned to them and to have their differences paid. Why did we specifically single out government employees and local self-government? We are witnessing that the work of the government's staff is being demeaned daily by the government's representatives. At the end of the line, they seem to be the only ones not covered by the increase in earnings for next year. You know, our work here, in particular, is not possible in the Assembly, would not be possible without work, valuable work, often overtime of government employees, and I believe that the minister also relies on the work of his employees, his employees in the state administration. They are preparing and writing bill proposals, government regulations, doing various research, they are at the level of local self-government, and now this government is constantly telling them that they are not working enough, that they should do more, that what they get too much. I repeat, it is too much because on average there are a lot of those who have done nothing, who have come here in the last three years just because they are members of the ruling parties and do nothing at their job if they even come to the job. You can read it from time to time in some newspapers -- this government announces order in the area. Here, but in this term, only ministers, I know well how long this term has been going on since April 2014, this announcement is going on and we cannot wait for this bill on payment classes here in the Assembly. He's gone. There are always some problems. We can see that you and the minister in charge don't agree on certain solutions to that law, but we think that these people, their work deserves respect, and that like all other employees who were reduced salaries a year ago for 10% and they deserve to be returned to the difference, and then we can talk about how much their work should be valued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39143	Thank you. The boss has SNS parliamentary groups, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39144	A lot of things have been said that really have nothing to do with the truth. We have a group of MPs here or Mr. Djurisic, who was then a senior official of the DS respected – God, you're breaking the law terribly, where the budget is. I asked him – where is the budget, Marko Djurisic, for the year you turned in and the debate started on December 26th? Where was the budget for 2009 where you started the debate on December 22nd, then on December 17th, then on December 23rd, then on December 26th? You have not put any budgets in the assembly procedure in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. Now, you and those who made us welcome the New Year's Malteses in the Eighth Assembly, who traded with some parliamentary groups just to withdraw a large number of amendments, so they don't go to temporary funding, say – where the budget is, it's terrible that the budget will come in the last week of November or the first week of December of the month. What do we do with that? Now you and those people say – where is your budget, and where was your budget for 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012? When did you bring it? When did you adopt him? On the other hand, you and those say that this RS government is leading a harmful policy, and they have run the right policy. These experts who ran the right policy took loans, short-term loans, for five years at 7.5% interest. They're experts, and then they honor this RS government that gets credits at 10 years per 2% interest that it's harmful. Did you have math in elementary or high school? Did you count those apples you gave and took? So how can 7.5% interest on a five-year short-term loan be more favourable, brilliant, economically profitable compared to loans at 10 years with 2% interest? Then who ran the pest policy and the harmful policy? Because of this policy of experts, who brought us the budget before the New Year's Eve as Santa Clauses, we pay a billion and 70m euros in interest this year. Next year, at the top of the wave, we will pay interest on loans, and from 7.5% to five years, worth a billion and 300m euros in interest on your debt, which you have broken down into some heterlends, to some who know what kind of projects. And with the burden you've left us, we're going to end up with a deficit about 500m euros this year. Look only if it wasn't for that burden of a billion and 70 million euros, as much as we had to put on interest, we're in surplus. Elementally, every month he's gone into surplus, and I understand those guys who laugh, they laugh because they don't know what the surplus means. They never even made it. Budget surplus – they have a foreign word. They have to translate what it means – a surplus, then they understand. They looked at the deficit all the time and as the deficit grew from year to year. Their surplus is a foreign word, and now these are the results where there is no interest and credit that you have taken, you have burdened us, not us, you have burdened the citizens of the RS, not to count those billions and 70m euros of credit, the interest that we have to return to your order and your cheek, and that interest so brilliant and professional and good for the country of 7.5%, if it wasn't for those interest, we would be in the surplus completely. You have the courage and the cheek to stand up and say: this is harmful. What did you offer? You're gonna be in front of New Year's Eve? What did you offer? Interests and loans from 7.5% every five years, five years' payoffs? Now for this government that brings back what you've spent, and if we had at least gotten something, what have we got, do we have built corridors, do we have built roads? The important thing was to take a picture at the Ibari Master's office, to show it next to two badgers and say: "Here it is, hi bye-bye, and the next day it's a banger, the trucks are gone, in two days there's no backhoe, and there's nothing left from the road. You and those experts who are now saying that this government is leading a pest policy, and we've done more highways in a year than you've done in five years, you've worked and made such experts highways in the field, and out of the field on the highway, off the highway to the field. Maybe corn. Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. These are the experts who have nothing, but nothing to say for themselves, but nothing to say what they have done well and usefully for this country and the citizens of RS, those who have put both budget and such interest and such burdens on our shoulders, they are now saying – where the budget is, they are now saying – this is harmful. Well, if this is a pest, when we're in a surplus, and a colleague doesn't understand what a surplus means, then what word would be appropriate without Madam President interrupting me with the right, which could confirm and which could describe your policy and everything you've done? After all, as you've done great, both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and 2012 and all these years so far, and for God's sake in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39145	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! You can, by amendment, have more time. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: He told me both the name and the last name, directly. ) All right, who does Boris Tadic belong to in that time now? Who should I give my word to? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39146	Thank you, Chairman. You came to power with the claim that you're better than us, that you won't make the mistakes we've made. So I'm asking you, if there's a law that says, November 1st budget in the Assembly, where's the budget? Your answer is when you are. Well, you can't do anything but talk about what we did and how we did. Here, let me tell you how we are. We owe this country five billion euros in five years, and you are 10 billion euros in less than four years. You owe 10 billion euros. We have signed contracts for all those kilometers of highways that have been made in the last four years in Serbia. Bring one contract, one for one kilometer you agreed in this three-and-a-half year highway to be made in Serbia, even if it went from field to field. Well, why didn't you put that highway together in three and a half years? Why didn't you find a financier or some other way to finance? What did you do? Your answer is always someone else's way of doing it. You're talking about interest. The interest at that time was 7.5%, the euro interest was 5.5%. It's negative today, negative. Today, if it were smart, they would take a loan and pay off those debts that are large and burden the state of Serbia, but they were taken at a time when the interest at the euro level was 5.5%, and today it's negative. Negative! (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: It is not true. You're not telling the truth. I ask you, Mr President, not to receive any MPs and not to flaunt with me in this way. I've been punished for it, and someone else won't get a distraction from not doing it on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39147	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39148	So the interest we're paying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39149	It's been a while. You asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39150	... We're paying for 10 billion, how much this country has owed over the last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39151	Thank you, MP. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: To what now? Don't throw it away, please. You've warned me more than once, I don't really know what to do. To warn or not to warn? Come on, tell me, should I warn the Messengers or should I not warn? Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Did I mention him? I never said one word to him. That's how everyone's gonna tell me about you. Then by amendment, however, he'll have the right to speak. Is that easier for you? Can we find a compromise? By amendment, please, Mr. Granny, you'll have more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39152	Now we've seen, Madam President, that 5.5% of interest is better than 2% of what we're getting right now. Here, now we get a confession. Teach me, please, what kind of math is 5.5% of interest better, and 5.5% every five years, on short-term credit, than 2% at 10, 12 or more years. Here, I admit, if you convince me and if you convince Serbian citizens of this kind of mathematics, well done! I think you deserve the Nobel Prize. As far as we're better, yes, we're better. For this reason, I can proudly say that, let's say, we adopted the 2013 budget on December 1st, where before that it was in the regular procedure, unlike those whose budget was missing, which each time the budget was given by an emergency procedure in five to 12, five to the end of the deadline. Says someone - this is where we made the contracts. Well, if you'll excuse me, people in Serbia today are not on contracts, they're not driving cars on paper, they're on what's been done and what's been built. The people driving by rail were transporting in your time at a speed of 26 kilometers per hour. That's the good, the modern, that's the right policy. Now 12 kilometers faster, 38, isn't that something to praise, but faster. Dear Shutanovac, from the place: time! How much time is there for the replica? () Much more time than those from the pastures of the doorkeepers. So, they're sick of those stopwatches, they're gonna have to do it a little differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39153	No, it's just a little attention when I give the replica, when I play the amendment, how much parliamentary group has time, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39154	I'll tell you one more thing. Do you know what they looked like, Madam President, those infrastructure-building contracts, building roads? I'm very grateful to Azerbaijan because he understands us, and because he didn't charge all those pens he could charge. They made contracts for the construction of Corridor 11 in such a way that they had committed to bringing the contractors into possession, i.e. to introduce them into the construction site for three to six months. If he was not introduced from three to six months, they had an obligation under the same great contract to pay extremely high, i.e. to pay as a state of extremely high penalty. Then they put their hands in their pockets, photographed themselves with that contract and said, "Here, we're done, and we just saw that the representatives of the former regime believe that traffic is going through the contract, not on the highway and on the asphalt." They didn't care about carrying out property-legal activities, or expropriating land. They had nowhere to bring people in to do anything. At the moment we assumed responsibility for the exercise of power, we had to sit down, of course, with the performers and ask them to give us an additional deadline to expropriate and execute. Don't just those experts who convince Serbian citizens that 5.5% of interest is better than 2%, not just those experts who tell us that traffic is going on paper and contract, not built roads and built asphalt and built bridges, don't just let those economic experts who measure everything on apples, have two more, two less, and then don't accept the dimension of inflation and everything they've done, and there was 20 percent. Don't just let those experts who allegedly increased something from a loan, from an unreal loan, and hide that it actually ate inflation long before they even paid. Please don't let those experts who put us in a position to pay us a billion and 70m euros of interest this year, and the following year when the top of that wave is a billion and 300m euros. Because if it hadn't been for those experts and their perilous policies, Serbia is now in the positive, Serbia is in a surplus and that's why this whole anxiety is because you don't understand it. You don't understand that our deficit is going to be 500m euros by the end of the year with the interest you owe us back. If it wasn't for that interest, if it weren't for that devastating policy that you had led until 2012, by home-right business, by business based on economic indicators, and you don't have to trust me, you don't have to trust the SNS parliamentary group, but look at what the IMF says, look what the World Bank says. Look, this same World Bank moved us forward 32 places on the "duing business list". Is that what you get on your eyes? Is that what you're getting at? Is this a result of not modeling the former president of the state or of getting committed to both reform policy and the difficult measures that we had to do? Do you, after all, and agree with those you drove away in 2011? The International Monetary Fund was only in Serbia in 2011 to drink coffee and lunch and see who it was dealing with. He saw that these are people who don't keep to words, but use the budget of those who adopted it before the New Year, use it only and exclusively for political and personal benefit, and people went away. We are proud of the agreement with the IMF because it is one way of monitoring the spending of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Because of everything we've done, we've made a deal on this increase and salary and pension and this help to the educators, but based on what we've earned, based on what we've saved, based on the real surplus that we've made, it's not your loans and interest of 7.5 or 5.5%, from such great interest that we're convinced today that 5.5% is better and more favourable for our country than 2%. Don't just you, please, teach us that kind of economy and finance management because such an economy has led us to a good and safe path to the door of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39155	By amendment, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39156	I understand good wishes, I understand the need to reduce costs, reforms, savings, I understand the desire to escape reality, but I don't understand that you're looking for an end to something that is the cornerstone of this country's sobering. If laws can do that, as you suggest, why don't we pass the law that we have income like Switzerland and solve it with one move at a time? You can't do that. Unfortunately, it can't be like that. It can't even get out of the crisis through aggregate demand, as we've tried, or tried, or tried for 10 years, so we ended up in total chaos and total debt, it can't even be analized by key elements. They will be able to return salaries and pensions to the previous level when we complete the programme, when we leave fiscal consolidation in 2018 and beyond. Before that, I doubt it. Before that, we can only tear down everything we started and everything we've done so far will go to waste. Secondly, I repeat, the difference in growth rates, if you can't remember -- write down, nobody has an increase in projected growth rate of 1.75 or 2%, nobody. Serbia is still lagging behind because it was in the hole and coming out, but no one has an increase, raising the growth trajectory by 2%, and we have achieved this through these reforms, and no one has achieved such a rapid return of the growth rate from negative to positive. Secondly, very important, investments are in excellent condition. Third, the debt is growing, but it is growing by 700m euros less than we predicted here in December of last year, by 700m euros less. It doesn't mean it's not growing, but it's not growing by the two billion euros that you misstate, or it's growing by as much as we planned last year -- it's growing by 50 billion, so maybe 120, if we decide to pay back the debts, but because of the debts we inherited, not because of what we did today. Today, Serbia has a surplus of the primary balance. For people to understand, without interest, we're in surplus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39157	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39158	The interest is due to what we're in charge of, remember, from a low level of duty in 2001, after the Paris, London Club, to what we inherited these years. Lastly, I have to tell you, there's nowhere else to be saved, except for that. Salaries, pensions, subsidies make up 800 billion, out of 1,100 billion of our expenditures. When you add costs to that, it's almost 900 billion, and you add capital expenditure, that's 950, add interest, that's 1,100. The rest are small things. There's nothing else to save on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39159	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39160	I believe, Minister, that it doesn't just have to be saved, that it has to be invested to create a new value in the future. I told you where it could be saved. Party employees, 100,000 of them, are fired and will be saved as much as necessary. You're talking about the debts you inherited. I'm sorry about that government that's gonna show up when it comes to paying off the debt this government has made, a debt to the pensioners. Our Constitutional Court said it was a pension reduction in accordance with the Constitution. The pensioners will appeal to the Strasbourg court, we will see what will happen and what will happen to those who will be and lead the country the moment the debt comes. I didn't say 5.5 was better than 2% because of math.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39161	Mr. Djurisic, you've run out of time for 18 seconds for the head of Parliament. Time is now being used from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39162	I was talking about interest rates being at a time when these loans were taken at 7.5% - 5.5%, and today they're negative. It's normal for you to take a 2% loan today, but you don't take those credits either. Here's what the Fiscal Council says. The current trends suggest that instead of re-opening three-year dinar bonds at a 10% interest rate, the state could issue new bonds of the same maturity, but at a lower interest rate (for example, in October, dinar bonds of five years, at an annual interest rate of 8%) and that 1.5 to 2 billion dinars could be saved. So all this help that would be shared with educators could be saved that the government acted differently on the financial market. Fiscal advice. I asked the question here, Minister. I got an answer from you – the government does not deal with exchange rate differences. A year ago, together with the budget, we adopted a $200m loan for "Srbigas", at interest rates of 4.5 to 6% - $200m. It was 160m euros at the time, today it is almost 190m euros, only because of the exchange rate. So, only on that one loan -- 30m euros. It's four of these aids that will be shared with educators, on one loan taken a year ago, and you say - we can't count on what's going to happen on the market. I can get you the answer you sent me. You sent me that answer. So this government is acting irresponsiblely, and that's why we're reacting like this. There's no development. There is no development in these measures. You can tighten...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39163	Go back to this amendment a little bit, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39164	Don't interrupt me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39165	I have to interrupt when you're not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39166	I'm talking about an amendment to pay back to government employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39167	That's not how this amendment reads.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39168	That's the essence of our amendment, that's what I'm talking about, why it's better than this help the government is offering. I ask the government to bring Serbia's development programme. The budget you could have, you could have had a real surplus, not these 50 billion deficits we're talking about. We could have had 100 billion surpluses, but who would survive? Your predecessor wanted to cut wages and pensions by 30%. We'd be in a surplus then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39169	I've got to stop you, Mr. Giursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39170	You can't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39171	I have to interrupt when you're not talking about the amendment. If you don't know what the amendment is, I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39172	You don't have to read to me, I can read to you. Why did you take my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39173	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39174	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment should not be accepted. I'll state a few reasons why the amendment should not be accepted. The first is that by 2012, the state was in debt at very high interest. It is not true that the eurobor was higher than today, the highest was in September or October 2008, it was around 3.45%, but since the end of 2008, meaning when these loans were raised, it was 0.5% at the annual level, as it is today. When you want to say something and lie, say it so we can't check it out in five minutes. Now that my colleagues know that what I'm saying is true and deliberately does not speak the truth to the Assembly, I also know that they are deliberately not thinking well to the citizens of Serbia, which they showed while they were leading Serbia. Now, you know what I asked myself in my presentation where a billion and a half euros of Mobtel's sales went missing, now I'm going to give an answer. They gave it to banks up to the last dinar with a reference interest rate of 16%, so on the reference rate, calculate the bank's margin, 22% to 24% you owed the state on dinar loans through the issue of securities. Shall we check that out? Now. Now. That's how you ate the whole substance, that's how you destroyed the entire privatisation, that's how you put people out of work, and now you're taking care of those people you left out of work. Well, it's like you're trying to cure the man you shot in the head. What are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39175	Mr. Arsic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39176	Mr. Becic, I'm explaining why you don't need to accept the amendment. You don't have to accept it, because there's no money to pay for what's in this amendment, and it's not because someone irresponsible, blatantly, unprofessionally treated the state and left it with no money. As far as I'm right, when you're applying for credit both as a citizen and as a company and as a state of risk, it determines the interest you're going to pay, so they were so good by 2012, that the risk rate was 7%, 8% and more, and today the degree of risk and trust in whoever returns the loan is 2% interest, these are data that don't lie. It's something palpable. Well, don't be surprised what foreign investors and citizens trust us more. I understand your panic, you will no longer be able to finance certain banking tycoons and certain financial and other manipulations that stole the state in the past five or six years until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39177	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Aida Corovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Dear People's MPs, please do not throw away, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go, miss.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39178	Thank you, Your Honor, for having received my word, not as other MPs. The proposal for my amendment is that all staff in primary and secondary education institutions and institutions of the student standard, on the basis of a decision by the Government, be paid one time the net amount of the average earnings for October 2015 with the corresponding tax and contributions to compulsory social security, no later than 1 December 2015. In the debate we have heard in principle that this is what the Enlighteners were looking for when they strike, at a meeting with the Prime Minister, or that they were looking for these seven thousand dinars as much as you give them, but what you really are is true is that the Enlighteners asked for at least this one-time help in the amount of one-time pay in education, which is what we are proposing. The information we have from the meeting of the four representative unions and prime ministers is that the prime minister only appeared at the meeting and said that the assistance would be so much and so much without any further explanation. With these same educators, you've been cutting their salaries by 10% in the past months, or you've taken some 60 grand from them, and now you're giving them this aid of seven thousand dinars and you expect them to be grateful to both you and the ruling majority and, of course, to the Prime Minister of the Soft Heart. Educational workers should be grateful for these 7,000 dinars of assistance and pensioners with an average aid of 290 dinars. If the average aid is 290 dinars, some will have the help of the entire 190 dinars a month, and for that 190 dinars a month they can buy two breads and milk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39179	Time, Miss Jovanovic, your parliamentary group has no more time. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39180	Thank you. We've been listening to a lot of things today, and I'd like to, I believe, that a lot of people who are watching this, and especially pensioners, it might be nice for us to tell them some things. You know what, it's true, someone's gonna say this is like a little bit, but it should be provided, it should be earned. You know, if people think it's not a good idea to raise a pension by providing it from real sources, by making a team increase, I'm asking these people to vote against SNS in the next election. Let's be replaced. Let's lose the election, so what? I only ask those who say this is wrong, to tell all these pensioners and how they will get them a bigger pension, to be honest and to tell them – you will have five, six, seven, ten thousand more pensions, which we will provide from real sources or we will be in debt. You know, it's easy to be and run politics -- wow, Wolfie, everybody can do it, and after that -- wow, Wolfie, you should say somewhere and why you are, what you're offering. I haven't heard any argument as to what the other side is offering except that it says this is wrong. I'm just asking them, what's better? Excuse me, we no longer have the right to borrow the land, we will destroy the entire future of this country. That's why we can't accept these amendments and it's not a little bit when you increase someone, or even those 250 dinars, because if it was a little bit then they would increase those 250 dinars, and we have a situation that 61% of pensioners received below 25,000 dinars thanks to their policy, and they won't say that. So I'm asking people if they really don't think this is right, so there's going to be some choices, so let us be relieved, but please let those who say this is wrong, let them say what they're offering. I don't see any alternative, and that's why I believe that the people and how they can judge well and see who works in his interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39181	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39182	Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 106-- the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Namely, my colleague explained the amendment she gave to the first article of the law that we are considering, and a colleague who spoke before me talked about everything but this amendment and that article. So, this article contains neither pensions nor past nor inflation, nor all of what counterpart Djukanovic was talking about. In this article, compared to what is proposed, it is directly said that we want people to be given a one-time full sum of one average salary. Please, since you have been very strict today, you have punished the representatives of the opposition and when they look down on you, to treat all MPs in the same way no matter how many parties are behind them because we are all representatives of Serbian citizens by the same number of voters. Each of us behind us has the same number of voters on the basis of which he performs in this House, and I ask you to have enough concentration to work on the Rules of Procedure, not the party's intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39183	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac, and I accept the suggestion, I'll do my best. The word comes from the injuries of the Rules of Procedure Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39184	Article 107 has been injured. - insulting her dignity, especially her co-worker, because he didn't listen well to what she was saying, so it would be good for her to listen in the future and that if she was already reminding me that I was speaking out of the agenda, he could first warn his colleague where she pointed to certain things that had nothing to do with the amendment itself. But, okay. The bottom line of the story is that the distinguished predecessor had nothing to say to me to resent what I said, so out of pure peace, he came forward. In any case, it is an insult to Parliament's dignity and I ask you to react to such a thing in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39185	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39186	Thank you. We've already said that in reason. I will repeat here that this law, i.e. the amendment of the law, has been proposed on the basis of first, talks with representative trade unions, second, on the basis of talks in the government and third, on the basis of agreements, difficult talks and agreements between the IMF, which ended on 11 November. Based on all these elements, we have proposed this amendment to the law that we are prepared to correct to the amendments contained in this set of amendments. So, to change the amount from six to seven thousand, which was sought by representative trade unions, and to extend the scope from primary and secondary education to higher and higher education and pre-school institutions, also in line with the amendments that will be the subject of consideration and voting. Beyond that, we felt we had no space or mandate to ask for an increase. I think it's a very good idea, but unfortunately, I don't think it's possible for me at this point to support such an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39187	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment cannot be supported by a vote. Not because I believe that the idea of paying certain categories of employees is not a good month's wages, nor because I think that it would not be useful for them, on the contrary, that we can agree immediately on all of us here. That would certainly be useful and why just for these categories for everyone, and why just one monthly profit, why not, five or ten? But let's talk seriously again about how useful it is for the state, or how different it is said, how realistic is that? This is also the answer that I hope I won't have to repeat, and I haven't done that on some of the other amendments that are conjectured in the same way, and there will probably be more. How much is it or isn't real what is proposed this way? I appreciate that the amendment promoters see very well for themselves and understand how not realistic what they are proposing. They see and understand because this question is at all their own reasons, which in writing, which I give today orally, they didn't even deal with. If they want to do it at any point, we've heard what kind of resources can be defined for what we're dealing with today, so if they have anything to say on the subject at least roughly, similar order of size, we can talk further. But without it, there's certainly no room for any further discussion. As for those terms we've heard in the context of an explanation of whether someone took something at risk of re-indicting ourselves for returning to some old times, I have to repeat something just and exclusively because it's one pure truth. He who asks such questions asks them himself and the environment in which he sits. No one else. It's more than clear who took what and why what we're doing today is being done this way. Does anyone expect to be grateful for this measure? Absolutely not, and there's no need for us to draw such words, such terms. You haven't heard and you won't hear that anyone expects gratitude for what is proposed by this budget supplement. The only thing we expect, and that's certainly not too much, is correctness. A correct attitude towards what is being done today and that, with the greatest respect for elemental logic, I hope it's not too much effort, to assess whether something is or isn't good. At the very end, I cannot support it because this amendment does not provide for all those categories of employees to be covered when all other amendments are taken into account. For that observation that we're all representing the same number of voters here, I can only point out very funny and appreciate that it's a bit of a rough atmosphere today, trying to make it brighter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39189	Thank you. (Jovana Jovanovic, from town: Replica. ) Do you feel that you have the right to replication? (Jovana Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39190	Thank you, Your Honor. I would answer at the beginning that my amendment was unrealistic. We heard from one of our colleagues, previous speakers, that we have as many as we have. I'm not sure we even know how much money we have for the prizes. At first, it was going to be six thousand. Then we came to the conclusion that the aid would still be seven thousand. It was initially that neither preschool nor higher education institutions would be covered. Now we see that both chance and happiness will be covered, so here's the answer to that question. I understand that some colleagues have to defend this law and that it is Wednesday even when Thursday, which we saw last week, but I just want to say in favour of this amendment that in the situation where today's low-school textbook set costs five to eight thousand, when the multi-class textbook set costs 10 to 15 thousand, this 55-euro aid, how much education workers will be, is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39191	Thank you. Replica minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39192	You've mentioned for the third time that we don't know how much we have, it's absolutely incorrect. We know to the last cent, to the last dinar as much as we have in fiscal reserves and here in dinars. We're counting very precisely, but we're responding that within the opportunities we have we can accept expansion to all levels of education, including preschool institutions, but this amount. You're talking about a order of size ten times larger, and we're talking about an increase from one billion to six billion to nine hundred. That's 300 million, that's the difference, that's the order of size is different. So I don't have to say precisely whether we have 100 or 200 million more and I don't have to add up all the levels of the authorities involved, as I suppose you know very well in funding teachers' salaries, or people in the education system, but we can argue that what we're proposing up to two billion gross, and until, as I said nine, ten million euros net we certainly have, and we know very precisely that we have, the local levels of self-government that need to take it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39193	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, I hope that the amendment, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, "Green", Together for Serbia, will not cause as much violent reactions as the amendments that the opposition MPs have submitted so far. I know that many will say that what we have proposed today, that it is unrealistic, but I don't think it will be right, that we, dear Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament do not ask that our salaries be here as in Switzerland, as in Germany or some other developed countries, we ask that our salaries be similar to the wages that exist in the region, above all in Croatia, Montenegro, etc. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. on the addition of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, and it states that the amount of reduced salaries, i.e. earnings, as well as other permanent remuneration of employees in the MUP, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Serbia, the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries is reduced by 10% on the basis of the provisions of the law on temporary increase, the regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes by the users of public funds, the "Official Messenger of RS" No 116/14, shall be paid to these persons by 31 December 2015 at the latest. By submitting this amendment, I had firstly in mind the fact that he was also a minister, i.e. Minister Vujovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have repeatedly claimed and said that the system of public finances has been stabilised, and that the budget deficit has been significantly reduced, that there is a consensus between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the IMF, and we believe that employees, elected, appointed and appointed by public funds users who have paid, i.e. earnings and other receipts reduced on the basis of a 10% Lex Specialis, the amount of such reduced incomes should be returned, i.e. the return of all the amounts seized by the dynamics proposed in this amendment. So, by 31 December 2015. If today we listen to both MPs of the ruling majority and of you, Mr Minister, that the situation in our economy has been improved, that the tendency of this improvement is clearly visible, I see no reason why these amendments cannot be accepted today, not only about the military and the police, but also the amendments that have submitted to my colleagues, that means for all employees, elected, appointed and appointed, because I will remind you, the savings you have announced, is the easiest thing to achieve on pay cuts, pensions, VAT increases, increased excise duties, etc. In such conditions and much worse government, although I think this government is bad, it has to work much better and make revenue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39195	You don't have any more time for the MPs' group. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the shortest, once again, what I had to say about the previous amendment, obviously still goes on. We don't hear anything on the subject here - real or not real, precisely because, I'm confident, and this time the promoter understands very clearly, it's not real and why it isn't. It's just a sentence -- it's said that we're standing better, so why can't we just close our eyes and pretend like nothing's ever happened, the answer is clear, unfortunately, because it's not so much better and I think it's more than a clear thing and we don't have to waste any time around it. In addition, I don't know whether with intent or error, mostly, this proposal, as well as others who have come with, to say the same side, plans to change a complete member 17. So those attitudes that deal with bonus and reward issues don't fit. So it seemed to me that this was probably done without intent, or error, because it seemed to me that a lot of sensitivity for the question of bonuses and rewards came from that side. I, if it wasn't done on purpose, think we should still keep those questions where they are in the law. Another note, let it be the least important, you know that's what we point to whenever it happens, spelling mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39197	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39198	Let me rephrase it for a second, since there's been a fragmented discussion. The bottom line of the reform is that you have to start somewhere, and until the reforms are over, you can't cancel it. This is an exception to the rules, what is proposed in this article, and as a colleague rightly said – this is a special type of remuneration, or compensation, which is called bonuses, which does not apply to regular salaries, which does not apply to Article 1 of the budget in which income and expenditure elements are defined. This is done without the rebalancing of these key sizes, it's very important. Technically, you might be right. Any change can be called rebalancing, but since we don't change the deficit, or the elements of expenditure, or the elements of income, it's not essentially considered a rebalance. Secondly, there have been several different proposals here and some have referred to the entire education sector, some have only referred to some sectors of the others, but the bottom line is that it's looking for an adjudication of the salary decision, not only that it doesn't belong to this member, but it would raise the question of equality, and it would all be an adjudicating the first step that we can't touch until we finish three years of reform with a fund or without a fund. We can do this without funds. It's the logic of things. We don't have anything else in the budget where the salaries and transfers are, where there's a lot of pay and pension, we don't have anything else we can save. We will interest, thank you for the good proposals, to reduce how we succeed. We're reducing them, I've got a chart in front of me, we've reduced in every form of manuality, in every instrument of interest important. I'll take an example. Three years, in 2012, it was 15%, today it's 8.6%. Six months was 11.95%, today is 40.79%. Every instrument in each handiwork is reduced and important, and we will reduce even more when we realise the loans we already agreed and when we take advantage of opportunities that give us better performance in the financial markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39199	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39200	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, this amendment, as well as all other amendments submitted by the opposition to this law, by today's opposition, and by the former authorities, represents the relationship of the opposition to public finances. It's the irrational spending of public funds, the non-domestic spending of funds, which has otherwise brought the state into this situation as it is today. We all know that accepting these amendments by the opposition would mean new government debt and new chaos in public finances. As the Government, in an explanation for which this amendment has been rejected, has said that they will pay, i.e. the salaries of employees in public funds will be increased after the specific fiscal rule defined by Article 27a, paragraph 28. The budget system law, which requires the reduction of the general government salary of 7% of GDP. That means I repeat, after fulfilling a special fiscal rule. So, in this country, the legal system has finally started to apply and rules are respected, which means when GDP increases, there will be an increase in wages in the public sector. In this year and a half as long as I am a national MP in this assembly of the National Assembly, I have not heard from the opposition any constructive proposal to increase that GDP. We are constantly listening to demagogy and political and marketing approaches to court citizens. The only thing that is right in the context of this amendment, submitted by opposition colleagues, is the government's recognition that it is working well, because it is said that the public finance system has been stabilised, and that the budget deficit has been significantly reduced. I completely agree with that. So, the SPS is to improve the material status of members of the MUP and the Ministry of Defence. That is why it supports the prime minister's announcement, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia's government, to increase wages in this sector by 2% from next year and past the IMF's opposition to raising profits to this public sector group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39201	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39202	Thank you. Here, I'm reading this amendment. I also believe that the applicant had one noble idea, that's very nice, but when you say so - let's pay the people at the Ministry of Defense, in the police, so let's go to the teachers, let's go to these, all of this is great, it's humane, it's very nice, we're just wondering – and from where? Where does that come from? I believe anyone who does housework, and even in his own house, regardless of perhaps when a child asks for his allowance, if you don't, you can't give it to him. We'd all really like everyone here to have more income and pay him. The other day, the prime minister, among other things, said that we currently have almost a million and 800 thousand pensioners. Well, each of you increased your pension by one euro, that's a million and 800,000 euros a month for that increase. That's 21 million and 600,000 euros per year. Well, that should be due. That's got to be because of it. We can no longer handle it – well, we will increase because it was a coalition agreement. Otherwise, I'm not saying it by heart, but that's what Radovan Jelasic said. He recently gave an interview in "NIN" and when he asked you in 2008 – which is why you think you're increasing 10% of your salary and pensions and everything you've done, they told him -- shut up, it's based on a coalition agreement. You have thus functioned and led the economy on the basis of a coalition agreement, and we run on the basis of some real sources, and on this basis we can give people as much as we can and get around. The People's proverb says nicely: "A man can extend himself to the length of his debt." We'd really like to give it to everyone, given that people are really hard to live on, but I think people realize that we're going somewhere and we're giving people something that's from real sources, and I believe there's going to be a day when both the Ministry of Defense and the police and everyone has a much bigger income than today. After all, what someone blew up, related to military pensioners, is being corrected today, because these people are getting, and eventually, they will be fulfilled what they were promised long ago, in someone else's time, that they will receive an increase in military pensions. Here, today we'll pay them off somehow. But, you know, it's worth getting money for, and it's worth making money for. I think we need to take care of it first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39203	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic and Miroslav Marinkovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow citizens, we have submitted the amendment of our colleagues to the draft law supplementing the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which a few days ago entered the assembly debate in one form, where the aid of 6,000, as Mr. Minister, was to be given to institutions of primary and secondary education, while high school institutions were being held, to hear today that it would be institutions of preschool age, and to make it clearer to you, these institutions fall under the authority of local self-government, so that it would be an obligation for local self-government to pay out this assistance of 7,000, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Minister. With you probably not knowing if all local self-governments have enough money in their budget and can make that payment by the end of the year, do I not know how a low local self-government can do that if in the first six months of the appraisal "free snack for children distracted by development" the realization of zero. That if an appraisal raises to the accommodation of schools in nature, which is a 10 million position, the first six months, the realization is zero...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39205	Mr. Bradich, we haven't gotten to that amendment yet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39206	No, I'm talking about finance, local self-governments that will be burdened with this, and they won't be able to respond to a request from the ministry. I'm talking about the Ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39207	Yes, but the amendment is a completely different text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39208	I've got 20 seconds left, so I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39210	So we have the minister's answer that he doesn't see a way, is this a policy violation if what the opposition says were to be heard – yes. We say that this policy is not good, that this belting policy, without investment, Mr. Minister, is not politics. Your policy in Nis, during your power, is less than 370 companies, 201 private stores are closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39211	I thank you, Mr. Braddick. Just for the sake of the public, you've submitted an amendment to health care, so... Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this amendment, I propose that by 31.12.2015 at the latest all cultural employees return the amounts of income that have been taken from them by the use of lex specialis. I have submitted to the amendment that these days I have listened intensively to the government that the system of public finances is stable, that the budget deficit is far lower than planned, that employment is on the rise, we have heard from you, Mr. Minister, in principle debate that we get commendation from everyone, that we have exceeded all the objectives set, and from the prime minister, it is mild to say, in an inspired speech, that we are - never better. For a reason, I expected the amendment to be accepted, given that the prime minister had shown enormous optimism in principle. You refused this amendment, you say the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is inconclusive, because it is still in force lex specialis. You're still saying that earning public sector employees will increase after fulfilling a special fiscal rule, which is bringing the general level salary of the state's GDP to 7%. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, is this an increase that you're talking about in terms of actually returning to the level of pre-decreation earnings and whether this increase in earnings, as you say, will be one-off, in the full amount of reduction, or will the prime minister, be pleased to see us every year by increasing from 1.25 to 4%. Since all the goals set are exceeded, when do you expect conditions for the elimination of lex specialis? From the inspired and optimistic presentation of the prime minister, from the other day, I am under the impression that we have already met that condition, but that the prime minister and only his known reasons still do not want to tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39213	Time. Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39214	You were in the general debate, apart from this proposal, talking about the proposal to extend the amendment of Article 17 to preschool institutions. This proposal has been adopted and through the board will be an integral part of the proposal that will be the subject of the vote. This second proposal for formal reasons, even if we agreed, as in the previous case cannot be the subject of Article 17, first because it does not belong there thematically and secondly because, as you said, lex specialis applies. When will it stop working? When we finish the program, that's what we said. Do we have room? As much space as we have, we use it. In order for the programme, so that structural elements of deficits or budgets continue to improve from year to year, and that nominal elements of deficits continue to improve, it means that salaries from the existing 9% would draw closer to this famous ecriteria and the 7% budget system law. Therefore, we want this to continue to move closer to the goal and to achieve the goal in 2017, and then hopefully, healthy investment and all that is the subject of this package, the law, reforms and fiscal consolidation that we have taken over to successfully complete and become once and for all a normal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39215	Thank you. The word has a national message, Mariana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39216	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the minister was clear on the state of the current budget and what is at our disposal and said that once it could be paid 7,000 dinars net and what makes me happy is that it was extended to pre-school institutions, that the amendment for higher education institutions and the student standard was accepted. The government was quoted as saying it was about improving the quality of the work process in primary and secondary education. I would like to express my wish that this economic growth will continue in the coming year and that, with the growth of GDP itself, we will come to the conclusion that in the coming period, even in the coming year, we can go towards the suspension of the provisional law relating to the temporary adjustment of the basis for the calculation and payment of wages, i.e. earnings and other permanent income, users of public funds. For this reason and those who are listed in the reasons for the refusal of amendments, we will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39217	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39218	Your Honor, I would like to engage in the discussion for two reasons. One is to say that I do not agree with the proposed amendment, and much more than that, in fact, to underline the presentation of Mr. Minister, today on several occasions, which seems to me very clear and loudly repeated what is essential for the interpretation of this whole bill and the way in which the harmonisation is done, or to increase the individual payments that are scheduled. In fact, what is important and what I especially want to support is that what is envisaged is what is proposed and what is proposed from a real basis. It is simply that I am asking all those MPs who have today advocated a different kind of approach to this job, for different payments and even greater than they have been suggested several times, whether they would, in their relation to their own budget, have such an approach to spending many more than they have realistically. I don't think so. I believe that in this case, the government has acted responsibly with the opening of one hope and perspective for the future in terms of the security of what the state and the state system is doing, that it can be spent as much as it is, as much as it is earned, and not more so, creating huge debts and uncertainty, not just today, but even more future generations. What I also want to stress is the mention of culture, as a particular segment, which I really think is of great importance and something that the state and the entire government in particular must pay particular attention to. I hope that this will happen with the new bill on culture and these members who are in the future ahead of us for several reasons, so that something that is, for example, not to happen or happen. either after 2000, someone suggested that, for example, the Book Fair be abolished and, let's say, since 2001, it was established that the First International Book Fair was held in Belgrade. To our great pleasure of a huge part of the cultural community, which rebelled against such a single proposal, we have experienced this autumn a great, very successful, 60th Book Fair, which corresponds to reality, etc., to say later in the National Library not to be directors who will throw books out of the library, consider them too high or even more abuse of books to work otherwise. What I expect from the Law on Culture is that it particularly apostrophes which are national institutions, to protect them and thus be included in this whole policy of protecting national interests. Finally, when it comes to these laws, I will just say this, that this is the government's approach and the finance minister's approach, which I say very responsibly and repeatedly these days, is very energetically defending this proposal, which is something that unlike the ministers who were at the time of Djelic or Dinkic, a completely other liberal, economic policy that was not based on the position of protection of the state and state interests. So, once again, I find this very important to support a policy that will provide a realistic basis for economic policy in the coming period and a real payoff for all. Of course, we don't agree that these are sufficient measures, we don't think that the amounts are enough, but in any case they are stable, they are safe, and for the greater one we should all work together and really push for, that based on real economic indicators, they come true in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39219	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39220	Mr. Minister, DS representatives, Mr. Markovic and I, have submitted an amendment with the idea that members of the MUP should also be allocated one amount at the rate of average earnings for October 2015. You understand why we think the Serbian police are in big trouble. Your salary cuts, your pensions, your daily cuts have led to a complete devastation of the security system, and that's something that's very dangerous. Now that you're smiling and wondering where you're coming from, you're probably wondering where we're going to give it to, here I'm going to give you concrete suggestions, because today we've been listening all day to how the opposition doesn't have a suggestion here. We can now read on the media that just now Belgrade has forgiven two billion dinars of debt, Er Serbia. In the cumulative sum, about eight or ten billion debts came out. That's 10 times what you're assigning today. Also, I ask you the question – why does RTB Bor not pay electricity, and EPS pays excise fees for what was delivered, and it does not charge electricity, because in this option EPS would have a profit, so it would pay you a budget so that you could raise wages. One more thing. When we finally adopted the budget, then I told you – you have a huge amount of hidden money. Over 130m euros are on the item for the deal, 130m euros. So, that money, if you focus on the increase, or the return of pensions and salaries, I'm sorry that today's SPS colleague is speaking against the policy implemented by her party president in Serbia's MUP, when pensions and salaries in the MUP were higher, today you support them to be smaller, which, I think, is very bad. So, just get it back and you'll have the funds. So don't tell us that we have no idea how, I'm telling you now very clearly how, certain means, and I'm sure there are a number of other places where they can replace the funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39221	Time. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39223	Excuse me, Mr. Babic. (Mirjana Dragaš, from town: Replica. Mrs. Mirjana, you have no right to a replica, you are not mentioned in any way. (Mirjana Dragaš, from the place: He said – a colleague who spoke. There's no other one. ) “A colleague who spoke, ” that is not enough for a replica. It's your opinion, not according to the chairman. You must be mentioned by name and last name in a negative context, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39224	Thank you, Mr. Becic. What's acceptable for SNS, which is that we can talk about amendments, we can talk about proposals, but those that are realistic and feasible and who are not just such a populist list of good wishes. We are proud that the increase in education is 4% and in healthcare of 3% and in the military and police of 2% and 1.25% for all pensions and pensioners. I think it is the fruit of a domestic and good relationship and the availability of funds by the government of the RS. I'm glad when a colleague mentions some public enterprises. I am pleased to mention when "Nikola Tesla" Airport and what I can present here and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the rapid growth of air traffic in the Republic of Serbia in 2014 and 2015 contributed to the downturn of records by all operating parameters of "Nikola Tesla" that last year, "Nikola Tesla" was used by more than 4.6 million passengers or 31% more than in 2013, which classified "Nikola Tesla" as among the three airports with the highest growth in Europe. This year, despite this large, remarkable growth last year, the record-breaking continues. The four-million-dollar passenger, "Nikola Tesla", welcomed the airport on 17 October 2015. The four-million-dollar traveler, for those who haven't heard, welcomed "Nikola Tesla" Airport on 17 October 2015, two weeks earlier than it was last year. For the first 10 months of 2015, nearly 4.2 million passengers passed through the airport. Four percent more than in the same period last year. Great growth also took place in the cargo traffic at the “Nikola Tesla” Airport. Last year, the growth of goods was even 33% compared to 2013 and in the first 10 months of 2015, carried as much as 25% more goods and as much as 49% more mail than in the same period last year. All these results are the best indicators and the best results in 52 years of long history of "Nikola Tesla" Airport and I am grateful to a colleague who pointed out these results, but I would prefer that he could talk about such or similar results...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39225	Mr. Grandmother...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39226	... . during the reign in which he participated...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39227	I know Mr. Sutanovac spoke off topic and mentioned the airport, but you didn't get the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39228	... They were more involved in course and other things than with these results.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39229	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) There is a word, Mr. Sutanovac, first Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39230	I thank the chairman. With all due respect, I think you've injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and at the expense of MP Mirjana Maras, our comrade from the MP group, having no doubt been misread, I hope not by Mr Sutanovac, and when he pointed out that he did not have to state his name and last name exclusively, he could only indicate the function, that he was a member of the SPS and, at the same time, was a member of the SPS parliamentary group, and he was clearly and loudly standing in Article 104, so, stating the name and name or function, and since there was an error of interpretation, Comrade Maras and fellow Members of our parliament had a great right to replicate. That right to the replica is unfortunately denied, and I think that this is how the Rules of Procedure got hurt, but not just in that sense. A fellow MP Sutanovac also mentioned the entire SPS parliamentary group and the SPS president, however, as a minister, in a way that I personally think is inappropriate, given that the MP group and the entire SPS have no reason to be ashamed of anything, even on the contrary, we are very proud to point out everything that was done in the MUP, and what our president as minister of the MUP did and contributed to that ministry. So I really don't think that in this direction you should have denied your colleague Maras the right to replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39231	Mr. Jovanovic, I beg you, since you have now said things that are not true, you must listen to me. First of all, the replica was not asked for by the Parliament of the People, Marijana Maras, but Mrs. Dragas. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from Lapsus. I'm sorry. Second, the letters Maraš and Dragas also spoke. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is quite large and is not enough to mention only that it is a member of the Socialist Party that I now know who it is spoken of. Both MPs spoke, and if I wanted to interpret the name and name that was not mentioned, that I wanted to interpret the previous speaker in this amendment, I couldn't tell which MP it was. Also, if you tell me that Mr. Sutanovac's remarks regarding a colleague who advocated and spoke about the MUP, and Miss Dragas was talking about culture, I couldn't even interpret that she had the chance to replicate. So, Mr. Jovanovic, there are a few things that suggested that he or she doesn't know what he's talking about, or he's not talking about Ms. Dragas' exposure. So I had no right as chairman to give the word to Miss Dragas, in fact to give the replica. You can either be satisfied with it or dissatisfied. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: No. You don't want to. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39232	If I may just at first, I didn't mean Mrs. Dragas, but Mrs. Maras. I don't think that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39233	Miss Maras didn't even ask for a replica, she asked for Miss Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39234	Miss Maras has noded her head and approved of what I'm saying. What's my fault now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39235	So I'm right not to give up the replica, Mr. Schutanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39236	I don't have a problem with replicas, really, people. If I called Vanya Vukic about the MUP, he could probably say something meaningful, I don't have a dilemma, but I didn't. Mr. Neđo Jovanovic also abused the Rules of Procedure, saying only about the president of his party, because it was not the topic of the president of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39237	Okay, that's what Mr. Jovanovic wants, that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39238	I mentioned it in my speech, not in the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Chairman, if there's only time, these 50 seconds are very important to me. You violated article 106 when you did not prevent your colleague Babic from talking about the massive results of Belgrade's airport. I'm sorry you didn't listen either, obviously, and neither did he. So, Belgrade Airport, with all these results, has forgiven the debt of "Er Serbia" of two billion dinars, Mr. Minister, and we are talking about an increase of seven thousand dinars worth about a billion dinars. Do you understand? So I just said how can you find the means to increase or return what's been taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39239	I'm sorry, but I can't take away your MP's group for two minutes now, because you don't have that time, and you've abused the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic only responded to what you were talking about at the airport. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39240	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 107. I believe it was a lapus and there was no intention of Mr. Sutanovac, who called Belgrade Airport Belgrade, which is in fact the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. If he didn't know, here, he learned now, but the airport is called "Nikola Tesla" Airport, not Belgrade Airport. As it is true that last year, the same "Nikola Tesla" airport made a profit of 28m euros and 23m euros were paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget for a year, which is more than the past five years together. These are the real results, as is the real name of the airport “Nikola Tesla”.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39241	Thank you, Mr. Babic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm calling an officer. 107th and 108th, about the reputation of the National Assembly, because this time I just want to say that I've been called several times in different ways. First of all, to say I'm a lady, and I'm proud of it. Then, my name is, of course, Mirjana Dragaš, so that there is no confusion with my other colleague. Also, I want to underline this opportunity that the SPS policy was for social justice and solidarity always and we have always shown this, and the policy of other political parties, in the Democratic Party above all, referred to the representation of liberal capitalism that has proved for ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39243	Mrs. Mirjana Dragas, you have now abused the Rules of Procedure and I must take away your parliamentary group for two minutes. I apologize for calling you Miss. We were just talking about Miss Mariana Maras. Your colleague Nejo Jovanovic has made a mess of you and Miss Maras. So, as chairman, I'm not guilty of anything. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39244	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow ministers, I wanted to draw your attention to the irregularity that has been observed, but in the meantime it has been corrected, as far as high professional training and as far as the university is concerned. I welcome that, but in this amendment, I would also like to draw your attention to the poor standard of health care professionals, doctors, nurses and all those people we don't see, who are helping in this one health system. I know that the topic today is only education, but I have included this amendment and education, and I wanted to draw a little attention to the need to pay more attention to this sector too, given that no reform of any society, no economic development can be unless we have a healthy nation, unless we have a health care sector that is adequately rewarded for its work. I suppose perhaps someone will say, "Well, why didn't you raise it when you were?" I want to tell you that I've been working at the Nis Clinic since 1993 and that doctors and nurses have received a salary in the '90s from three German marks of doctors to less than one brand of nurses. I don't think the health system stopped, nor will it ever stop. So, receiving as a reception is not a measure of the movement of this one human profession, which is called a health profession, but it is a desire to draw attention to you that more attention must be paid to these good people who, unfortunately, bear the burden of the social crisis, not only of this government, but of the previous governments and the DS and the SPS, and have never stopped in their human work and human profession. I'd like to tell you that you have to find ways, some items in the budget to fix that one standard of living in health recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39245	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39246	This is an amendment to Article 2 requesting his erasure. This is the result of erasing the first article, because it was our amendment to Article 1. As fellow Members have already said, the amendment has been practically adopted, i.e. Article 1 has been deleted as proposed in the original text by the Government, i.e. the competent ministry. At that time, he said that the net amount of six thousand dinars could be paid to employees in primary and secondary education institutions and institutions of the student standard, based on the government's decision. It is now extended to another five institutions and the amount is not six, but seven thousand and there are some changes. So I don't think anyone here knows what article one is supposed to be changing right now. Therefore, it is logical for this law to be withdrawn and regardless of all the arguments that we have made in the principle debate, in the debate at the beginning of this day, the debate has turned into an account of the existing regime and the former regime. As a representative of a former regime, I can tell you that during that regime from 2000 to 2004, pensions were paid back, education workers' salaries increased five hundred times from December 2000 to December 2003. Reforms in education have been launched and external debt from 15 billion is reduced to 10 billion euros. I hope the minister remembers that time and won't deny it. Now we have that the minister doesn't know how many users of this measure are, how much is total, how much is at what level of education and when it will be paid and from which funds, and maybe we heard it, because we have a statement today from half an hour ago by Mrs. Udovicki, Minister of State Administration and Deputy Prime Minister, who says that local self-government will be transferred in less money transfers next year, because she says there is no money. This is said by the vice-president of the Serbian government, which is completely contrary to what the president of the same government and many ministers are saying, including the finance minister. Therefore, at least for the reasons of confusion and general policy and attitude towards the educational staff, i.e. education, I urge you to adopt this amendment, that in the voting day that you will probably be voting for both of our proposals some nights.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39247	Mr. Zivkovic, it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39248	You're the master of the button...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39249	Man, when he does, I don't feel good about it either. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39250	You're doing this to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39251	Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečiću, the Honorable Minister Vujović, the honored guests, the two MPs Zoran Zivkovic and I opened this debate this morning with our amendment to Article 1 of this bill, so I think it is appropriate and appropriate to round this debate in an appropriate manner. I think today's debate was such that anyone who is an objective observer, and perhaps a participant, if he wants to be objective here, could clearly see the power of the arguments that we have offered here for our two amendments to these two members of the bill. I will add these arguments we have repeated here, from discussion to discussion, to two more things that have been said on the sidelines of other MPs. Here this measure has been partly presented as part of the reform, and we have written very clearly in our reasonings and for this member, an amendment to this article of the bill that one-time assistance to respected gentlemen cannot be a substitute for the absence of a fundamental reform plan in education. There is no fundamental plan, although it was said a year and eight months ago that this member is ready and that only the government is formed and going. There is no plan for reform of education, but beware, education is respected gentlemen and in an infrastructure sense the most important segment of our country. There is no reform plan, but today we are talking about one-time assistance that teachers and teachers claim to be a humiliation to them. The second thing, this proposal discriminates, I think it's clear to Mr. Orlic, some other people, other public funds users, such as doctors and cops. How does someone explain to them through an argument that they won't get a dinar, and they'll get someone else for example? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39253	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We would join in supporting this amendment and propose to the MPs that in the day of the vote they support the amendment. The MPs of the Democratic Party have tried in several ways to improve this bill, we have offered Mr Vujovic and the National Assembly several opportunities to change what they offer us here, so we have offered or to enlighten themselves to help at the height of an average salary as they demand. Then we offered to give them back everything that was taken away from them over a year of pointless savings, because all that money they saved, the prime minister had already found a way to spend somewhere, then we tried to convince you to expand the spectrum of people who are getting, we continue to believe that there are two public sectors in Serbia, that there are public sectors that work, where the problem is neither the number of workers nor the salaries of those employees, and that there is a public sector that absolutely nothing works, that is employed through a relationship, where the problem and salaries are employees, or the amount of these salaries, and the number of employees in that second, as we see the privileged public sector. We've been trying to correct this injustice, and in the meantime the law has changed several times through amendments, so what we're discussing today is absolutely not what we started to discuss just two days ago. First the sum changed, now the people who get it have changed. One very important request to you and the proposal to continue to accept the National Assembly is that you commit yourself by law to obtaining all the help in education, not that some government decision will set out the criteria by which the staff will receive assistance. You didn't want to accept that either. You didn't even want to accept the law to define the time limit in which this aid would be paid. For this reason, of course, we also join this amendment of the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, because we believe that such a law as it is now is, not only is it an insult to the educators and all those who do their job honestly in Serbia, but it has become absolutely and pointless. You intend, now with the last changes, to commit local self-government to some kind of payment. We heard on the Education Committee that local self-governments don't even have the money to pay jubilee rewards to those same educators who don't get those jubilee awards because local self-governments run by SNS don't necessarily consider education to be unusually important to our system. You have just committed local self-governments that have no money for jubilee awards to pay even later some expenses, and we have also heard from Minister Udovicki that there is an intention to continue to know for who knows which way since the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed in the SNS, the SPS, to reduce transfers to local self-government again, but therefore to build them up. Even that might not be a problem if local self-government had these resources rationally. You know, I come from a town where the city administration has defined itself and engaged in a dino park construction project. This local government of the town of Novi Sad will probably feel that if it is already building a dino park, it already has an obligation to increase the salary of those employees in the preschool institution, it may not have the obligation to pay all employees in the education of the jubilee prize. So besides not accepting our proposals to the spectrum of people who need to receive this help, let's call it help, they call it a little rougher, they probably feel that way, when they hear the Minister Verbic insult them, it's probably even harder for them. You didn't even accept that the law says that everyone will get help. You said that everyone would get help here, but if we were to remember what you said and what Mr. Vukic said everything, you'd see why we have a little bit of skepticism when you're here telling us something about a pay phone. You said that unemployment is dropping, you said that nothing was expensive, you said that citizens are living better and easier. So since a whole series of our amendments have not been accepted even though we have offered you a very large number of opportunities we join the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39255	Miss Jerkov, please approach the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39256	Sure. So we join the MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic in calling on the National Assembly to accept this amendment in the voting day and spare the epiphany of the humiliation that you are giving them here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39257	Thank you. Mr. Imamovic, you only have 15 seconds. If you think that's enough. (Ennis Imamovic, from the place: I have two minutes.) No, this isn't your amendment. Do you want 15 seconds? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39258	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, we would join the argument given by colleagues from the New Party and colleagues from the DS, and we would add that we would support this amendment because we believe that if we have not already managed to return the government to that text of the Agreement that he signed with the counselors that we should give up on these improvisations that we have in this bill and that we believe that this bill is exactly one improvisation that we should give up on, because we don't need to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39259	I've given you 15 seconds more, I can't give you any time you don't have. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] We continue to work and move on to the agenda, on a proposal to put on the agenda a new point of urgency during the session, according to Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you that MP Zoran Babic is on the basis of Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 November 2015. In accordance with Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the motion for a proposal for a selection, appointment, resolution and termination of an emergency procedure during the sitting may be decided by the National Assembly on the condition that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. Therefore, before we move to a decision on this proposal, we need to determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the e-system MPs. Please, since we see that most MPs are in the O.R., but the system is not good, we need to do it again. Please insert the cards again. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 147 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Zoran Babic's proposal to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 against – four abstentions – there are no votes, six of the total of 152 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're continuing our work. We move on to a unique search of the new 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON A DECISION AND THE NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE PRESIDENTS OF THE REPUBLICAL COMMISSION You have received a proposal for a decision taken by MP Zoran Babic, president of the SNS parliamentary group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours. I'm asking the MPs' groups to attach a list of debaters, application for word. According to Article 92(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does MP Zoran Babic, president of the SNS parliamentary group, want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39261	Chairman, I have to admit I'm confused first. It is now 16.03 p.m., when we should, upon the notice of the President of the National Assembly, that we have the beginning of a new session of the National Assembly. Instead, we have a new agenda item - Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. The promoter didn't say anything about the proposal for this decision, and probably shouldn't be too controversial. But there's one thing that's not clear to me that I want to talk about. A little over a year ago, when the SNS led a deaccumulated campaign of its officials, the name Dejan Djurdjevic, president of RIK, was mentioned. Mr. Djurdjevic then, respecting then the SNS General Committee's alleged decision to resign as RIK President in August 2014. This resignation to this day, November 16th, did not produce any fact. Mr. Djurdjevic is serving as RIK President, receiving a fee of 39,000 dinars per month as RIK President. Since we are changing certain members of the RIK today, I ask the question – why don't we change Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic? What happened to his resignation? Was it another colorful lie by the ruling coalition and the citizens' show about allegedly deaccumulating functions without essentially happening anything? Why are we not discussing today that the term of office of Mr Dejan Djurdjevic, who allegedly resigned on the basis of his statement of 7 August 2014? We didn't get it, even though I didn't see it. Maybe it came in this pile of paper we're getting. Why today, 15 months after allegedly Mr. Djurdjevic resigned, there is no proposal for his resolution? It's not the only case of that farce with deaccumulating functions. There are MPs here who reportedly deaccumulated without anything happening. They remained in the same positions, continued to receive hundreds of thousands of dinars a month from the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39262	Your Honor, do you have anything to say about the proposed candidates, not about the unproposed candidates?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39263	The subject of the agenda is the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic of Election Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39264	Next, what does the proposal say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39265	With a proposal to place, in accordance with Article 168(3), on the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session on an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39266	That's right. And who's proposing it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39267	That's what the proposer was supposed to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39268	No, you got it in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39269	Since Mr. Djurdjevic was elected to the SNS proposal as member and then president of the RIK, I ask the question – where is his name on this paper? I'm talking about his resignation 15 months ago being a farce. It's a very theme of the agenda. I'm sorry, you were coming to the O.R., you couldn't listen, I can repeat...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39270	Don't repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39271	So here we have the replacement members from the post of deputies and other things, we do not argue, it is the right of the SNS on the basis of the number of mandates in the Assembly to change its representatives to RIK. I ask where Mr. Djurdjevic is, how can he continue to serve as president of RIK if he resigned? What if the prime minister decides to call the election anyway? Who's going to hold the election? Whether to put into question the legality and legitimacy of the election process conducted by the RIK, chaired by a man who was 15 months ago, as the public has been informed that he resigned. You didn't put it on the agenda until today. Today you decided to postpone yesterday for the start of a new session...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39272	Ambassador, without the grandmothers and frogs in this session...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39273	Instead, we have an addition to the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39274	I can put on the agenda just a document that someone's proposing, I can't make up a document. Is there anything we agree on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39275	That's right, of course. This document was proposed and I ask where is the name of Dejan Djurdjevic? Was that resignation a farce?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39276	Okay, so when I get some kind of document that applies to someone else...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39277	Has he continued for 15 months to receive compensation for the post of RIK president of 39,000 dinars? What about the legality of RIK's work if RIK president allegedly resigned, respecting the party's party's decisions, which he proposed and voted in favour of the post. So this is a serious topic and I see that you want to get over it quickly so I don't know what we're doing here, but I think this requires an answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39278	How can I give you an answer to something that's not on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39279	Where is this resignation Mr. Djurdjevic told Tanjug, the agency you shut down the other day – I resigned as president of the RIK and was handed over to the Assembly today? Where's that resignation I've been asking since 7 August 2014?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39280	Okay, do you have anything to say about the proposed candidates?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39281	I've got more to say, just you slowly, patiently. It's only six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39282	I have time, because I like to work. I know who's not in the benches when he doesn't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39283	And I know who isn't, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39284	Me too, so that's where we get along.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39285	I'm here, I'm using time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39286	By the way, since I'm getting a lot of respect for the Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to make a little effort to sort of respect it, do you have anything to say about the proposed candidates and the right to propose each of the parliamentary groups to their own candidates?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39287	Here, let me read the legal basis. The legal basis for decision-making is contained in Article 33. The Law on the Selection of National MPs which found that the RIK in a permanent composition appointed the National Assembly on a proposal from Parliament groups of the National Assembly. Thus, Mr Babic, as president of the largest parliamentary group, proposed between Srdjan Smiljanic, Dr Dragan Vukomirovic and Jan Ljubicic, whom we are scheduled to resolve membership in the RIK today. I'm reading membership releases, I haven't read who has a function, and I can do it instead of Mr. Babic, it's not my problem. And he suggested that I, I call Jana Ljubičić a dipl. Lawman for RIK member Dr Miladin Kovacevic for member and Srdjan Smiljanić dipl. Registrar of RIK. I can't read the name Dejan Djurdjevic here, and I read that he resigned because he respects the party's decisions. Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic resigned 15 months ago, according to the Assembly on 7 August 2014. Today is November 16, 2015. Fifteen months and a few days, how long it takes for that resignation from the office to come here to us in the Assembly, that we realize it, that Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic has stopped his mandate, that he no longer receives 39,000 dinars a month and that RIK chooses a new president. I'm asking -- how can RIK work? As you know, she has conducted the election process for the national council of national minorities, so there are other obligations under the law in addition to the republic's elections. We have a situation where we have a president in resignation for 15 months. All right, it's not the ruling majority of the big deal, the great reforms and the swings that haven't arrived to put on the agenda and put on the emergency procedure today, but forget to put Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic's resolution...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39288	I'm asking you to bring me those papers over here, so you and I can sit down and figure out when it's gonna be on the agenda. Just to get me what you claim to have been handed over to Parliament, and I don't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39289	I ask you the question where is this resignation as president of the Assembly, and the president of the parliamentary group where the proposal for a new member...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39290	Your Honor, we can't play hide-and-seek with you and me so we can look for something we don't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39291	We have a statement by Dejan Djurdjevic that he respects the party's decision...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39292	Give me that and please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39293	I'll give you when I'm done...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39294	Be kind enough to give me immediately as chairman to see if I made any mistakes, to see when it was handed over...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39295	No, you didn't make a mistake, the mistake was in the proposal Mr. Babic sent, where there is no name for Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic to resolve...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39296	Why don't you read us what the proposal says exactly, the public works. So, who's proposing which places and who's replacing and we'll see right away that you're mistaken...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39297	I have no intention of doing your job and repeating what I've already said. I also said what's the proposal for people to get rid of, what's the appointment proposal. All what my colleague Babic didn't do was I...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39298	You have no right, and you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39299	I ask the question... So this is to say the right of the largest parliamentary group that those members are proportional to the number of MPs they have in the RIK change. I'm not going into that right, but I'm asking a question -- why don't we change Mr. Djurdjevic if he quit?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39300	Okay, maybe you don't like him, but you're not the same party. Get me that paper...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39301	I don't mind Mr. Djurdjevic, I'm just talking about that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39302	You have some paper in your hands, and in fact you don't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39303	I'm talking about that SNS policy being a farce, and when it starts talking about how functions should be deaccumulated, then someone allegedly resigns, but nothing happens with those resignations. Fifteen months nothing happens, Mr. Djurdjevic is still president of RIK...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39304	Ambassador, I've been breaking the Rules of Procedure terribly for the last 12 minutes, and I'm afraid the other MPs will resent me for breaking the Rules of Procedure terribly. I'm letting you talk about whatever you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39305	No, I'm talking about the subject...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39306	And you are someone who constantly warns me that I respect the Rules of Procedure and that I am very flexible. I'm trying to be flexible with you right now, but I'm afraid other MP groups are going to be terribly resentful to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39307	Not bad...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39308	I care about not being resented by MPs more than twice a day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39309	It's not bad for the president to blame you and someone else in the opposition next to us. Here, I've now received my resignation in the 7th of 8th of 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39310	Where?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39311	The seal of the National Assembly up here in the header.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39312	What year?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39313	7.8.2014. You were then president of the Assembly and then you were a member of the SNS and as a decision of the main board you decided that officials could not have more than one function...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39314	Okay. Is that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39315	Respecting that decision...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39316	I beg you, MP, to come to the truth...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39317	I ask you: why is this resignation, or why is the proposal for its resolution not on the agenda today? I'm not asking anything abnormal...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39318	I'm not proposing. The truth works, nice and slow to explain to the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39319	Are we plowing now or am I using my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39320	You keep asking me something.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39321	I'll tell you. You know I can't address other MPs directly by my Rules of Procedure, only you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39322	Yeah, well, you keep saying why me, so why me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39323	I am speaking to you as President, or Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39324	I can't put something on the agenda that's not suggested. There's a hundred suggested. It's like asking me -- why tomorrow we're going to discuss the laws of Minister Zorana Mihajlović, and you keep asking me where Ivan Tasovac is. That's how this debate works.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39325	Let's continue this discussion. Mr. Djurdjevic wrote that he submitted this resignation for personal reasons. Why did you take my word? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39326	I didn't take your word from you, but tell me what you have to say about the agenda, about the point of the proposed candidates. So it's the right of one political party that is parliamentary to change its members and with others, which she has done legally, and you keep mentioning a man who is not on the agenda. It may be, but it's a proposaling matter. It's at a level like if the rest of us asked – why doesn't someone replace Borko Stefanovic? I can't let that happen. Why is he a member of a committee when everyone expects him not to be a member of that committee? After all, we're different parties. Everyone is doing what they consider to be good and opportonically political for their party, and you are now interfering in the work of a political party and political group here, a parliamentary group. So I can't allow it, I really can't let it, because now the debate is going to be in another direction, too. They will ask someone – where are some of your messengers, why don't you trade this for the one? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I can't...) I know you can't, but it's your tendency to keep saying what's not on the agenda. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: That is the problem. It is. We've known each other enough. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: Please consider and turn on my microphone. I'll think about it. So, as far as I know, there's a gentleman on the agenda on my left, Secretary of Parliament and Mrs. Jana Ljubicic. No one else. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I ask you to give me your word.) I'm very much on the subject. You're not in the topic at all. Now I'll prove it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39327	Thank you. We are today adopting a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members. I ask the question, if there is a resignation in the position of RIK President, Mr Dejan Djurdjevic, why...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39328	It's not on the agenda. I'm deeply sorry. I'm sure you'll have a chance to speak yet... Don't you mind the candidates these? You have nothing to say about their biography, anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39329	I don't mind. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39330	Aren't they worthy of that place?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39331	It bothers me that RIK has the president in resignation for 15 months. This calls into question the legitimacy of RIK's work. I think it is perfectly fine when we talk about the decision to amend the Decision on Resolution and designation to ask the question – why don't we resolve Mr Djurdjevic who resigned? So I didn't say anything wrong about him and his work. He's the man I resigned for personal reasons. I'm just asking you to find that resignation here so that RIK doesn't come to the issue of the legality and legitimacy of its work. I'm not and I have nothing against these other candidates. I probably wouldn't use this opportunity to speak, but I have to point to this fact. We could have kept quiet about not talking for 15 months because Mr. Babic didn't go out with the proposal. If he came out with a proposal today, I think he is obliged in the end to say why he did not respect his resignation, because it is the only way I can understand it – that Mr Babic did not respect Mr Djurdjevic's resignation and that that is why he did not propose his decision to elect a new member. If that were part of this decision, I wouldn't have any question, no comment, and this debate would be over. I think my reaction is completely justified. It's not political. He's talking about the attitude to the work of the state authorities. One of these authorities is RIK whose president is in office for 15 months because he respected his party's political decision policy. Nothing is disputed, but it is obviously controversial to do so, to thank Mr Djurdjevic for his work at RIK and to choose another candidate in that place and that RIK can work at full capacity and that no one can ask the question of the legality and legitimacy of RIK's work tomorrow. I can repeat this as long as it takes. You know, they say -- it's smart enough to talk once, and I've said it more than once here, so let the citizens figure it out for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39332	The public wants me to repeat that I really can't put something on the agenda that no one has suggested. Ambassador, you will teach me how to do this. Maybe it was in the past not so long ago to put something on the agenda that no one had suggested. Is that right, MP? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I did not pay attention to what you say. I'm sorry you're not paying attention to what the president is trying to explain to you. Who else is answering for the discussion? Proposer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39333	Madam President, some people are only willing to get five minutes of fame or 20 minutes on RTS. To all sorts of things, and even so many times to repeat the same sentence, but then what hurt me and insulted me, what hurt and insulted both the other colleagues and colleagues sitting here is that he's repeating it because he's the only one who's so smart and he realizes it at the first ball and the first sentence, and we're all the rest of us don't know how we don't understand it, so here he has to explain it to us. Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic, whom Mr. Djurisic mentioned at least one 30 times, I guess because he has no argument to challenge this proposal and this decision, is a regular professor of Law who finished on time, not at 30, and I don't know what year in the evening classes, but in time. He's a professor at law school. He teaches inheritance law. The director is the Republic Secretariat of legislation and there is no single objection to the work of Mr Dejan Djurdjevic as part of the RIK. The fact that counterpart Djurisic does not understand political decisions, and ultimately the moral decision made by the SNS on the absence of double functions, it is more to him. I'm proud to be a member of the SNS. I am proud that I have Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic, a member of the SNS presidency, for my colleague and friend, besides being a respected law professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. I repeat this to those who do not hear and pretend not to hear and remember. I am also proud that, besides thousands of colleagues and colleagues from the SNS, I resigned from the Supervisory Board of the Transport Company "Last" on September 1st last year, for resigning as president of the Water polo Alliance, because for my colleague and associate, I have Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, who also resigned as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Galenika, as well as in place, or membership of the Supervisory Committee of the Agency for Privatisation of the RS and because for us the state, resources, the money of all RS citizens is above, much above personal benefits and personal interests and any salary anywhere and instead of trying to challenge someone who could teach justice to him and me, it would be better if he had said – here's what we were doing, here we did better. But since there is no argument, then for 20 minutes he bombed us with the same sentence, again and again and again. In every sentence, Dejan Djurdjevic, and I believe he was informed and informed, at least if he had read his function, Professor Dejan Djurdjevic. With great respect, the other colleagues and students treat him, so it's our turn to deal with the same way, rather than to beat up some papers and look for what we're not ready to do ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39334	Anyone else answer for a word from the authorized? No, I don't. Then we move on to the list. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39335	Dear President, this theme "The Turnover Movement" is very important. This is where the decision is made whether we're going to have fair elections or whether you're planning to buy elections and steal elections... (Janko Vesenović, from the city: You have broken up. [[off microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39336	Totally conscious. I don't allow anyone here suspected of stealing. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Let me explain. You won't explain the insults. It's just we still have to explain the insults. No offense, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39337	Therefore, on the agenda he had a choice, i.e. the appointment of members of the RIK, i.e. the resolution of members of the RIK. These people need to make sure that the elections are fair. Here we have proposals to resolve a number of RIK members and appoint a number of RIK members. We got their names now. We couldn't get to know who they were, what they were doing in life, whether they were trained to perform such a single responsibility, I would say an honorary duty to ensure that the next elections in Serbia are fair. The only name I can say here on this list that I know and can discuss is Mrs. Jana Ljubic. Ms. Jana Ljubicic is relieved and is proposed to be re-appointed as a member of the RIK. I expect, as I said, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, that these elections be fair, and I ask you, i.e. I ask the promoter – is it true, since it does not say here that Jana Ljubicic was appointed, I understood that, for the secretary of state in the MUP? So, not only is it a conflict of interest, which my colleague Djurisic was referring to, citing an example of one of the people who is not a title-right professor, but for the title-right I have not heard in my practice, it is probably a new branch of law, but Jana Ljubic is, therefore, in place of the secretary of state in the MUP. There's a nice folk saying, I'm not going to quote it all, about keeping the cabbage. How do you think a senior SNS official, a candidate for an SNS MP, and now in the place of someone who needs to ensure that votes are not bought, not stolen, etc. be a member of the RIK, that he also conducts a possible investigation into possible abuses of electoral rights and that he is a member of this election commission in some way that he should control? So this session is unprepared. We didn't have enough arguments to discuss, we didn't have the opportunity to get acquainted with the candidates, although I repeat, this is of crucial importance for the next elections in Serbia, for the fact that they will be fair or not be fair. "The Turnover Movement" has these days tabled a proposal to amend the Criminal Law, which could be called a law for fair elections, and the choice of RIK members is crucial for fair elections. Is there anyone in the conflict of interest, like the distinguished professor we were talking about today, we could have known that we had a proposal, that we only had a council. We had one session today, one session to continue. That session was approached by another session, which was scheduled to take place tomorrow. We went into the O.R. to discuss the agenda points for that new session. A new item of the agenda is proposed – the selection of members of the RIK. Well, you've outdone yourself. So you've overcome yourself in a way that you can turn the National Assembly into something that doesn't suit it, that you can subdue everything to party interest and that we're practically here, by the circumstances we're involved in this debate, without documentation, without paper, without being able to participate in the right way. That's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39338	Thank you, MP. I am obliged as an MP to answer to you, although I am not a proposing, that you have received material for this point on November 12th. I am very sorry that you do not have a parliamentary group, so you cannot propose members of the Commission, but this is the right of the SNS parliamentary group to propose and amend. Until now, it has never slowed down any member of parliament to suggest who he wants and to change who he wants. These are now the new principles that you are trying to bring into the work of this Parliament and some of our customs of mutual respect. So we can't propose to each other or who we'd like to see on some committee or commission. When you have a parliamentary group, no one will interfere with it, and now you don't. Don't deceive the public that everything here is subordinated to party interests. Well, of course, there are parties in parliament. To what should the interests of proposing be subordinated, rather than to the interests of political parties, which the citizens voted for and allowed them to represent in parliament, depending on how much they won in the elections? I have to react because there's been public deception all day, and I can't let that happen, with all sorts of observations about how something's been compromised in this House. Nothing's been compromised. The right of the SNS parliamentary group to propose and change who it wants on its quota has now been compromised. I need to explain that. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Since there's no list, no one's answered, you have two minutes of your time per article 96. Here, use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39339	Thank you, President. I have not received an answer from the proponents of this decision why the will of Professor Dejan Djurdjevic, his written will of 7 August 2014, was not respected to resign as RIK president. So I'm not contesting SNS's right to propose a new president. I can't understand why we can't resolve the previous 15 months, which has resigned on its own, respecting the party's decision to elect him in a major deaccumulation campaign of functions in the party, where individuals had five-six functions, where they made monthly income and still income from the budget of 300-400 thousand dinars. Professor Dejan Djurdjevic has resolved, and he stressed that he has denied the post of RIK President, where he earns 39,000 dinars per month, respecting the party's decision. Now we for 15 months cannot adopt that decision, we cannot honor his will. I asked the question - legitimacy and work and decisions, such is the Republic Election Commission, where we have, on the one hand, the resignation of the president, and on the other hand we have a president who sits and performs that function and receives compensation, which is why he resigned. So, what happens to the decisions of the Republic Election Commission if elections are held tomorrow? It could have happened to us a month ago. The Prime Minister made that decision one night, he will, he won't, and in the end he decided he wouldn't, and what if he decided he would? The election would be conducted by RIK with a president who is in resignation and someone could complain about the result of those elections and lead the country into an unspeakable crisis. I think it is irresponsible of the head of the parliamentary group, the largest parliamentary group not to establish the resignation of the RIK president from his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39340	I think everyone understood you. Vladimir Marinkovic made a mistake, didn't he? The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39341	Madam President, the Republic Election Commission is suffering nothing in its work, neither in quality, nor in functionality, and Mr Djurisic should take more care that he and his political option with such work and political attitudes will be increasingly less and less the subject of the Republic Election Commission. You know, when someone slips under the census, when someone falls below the census, when people in Serbia won't show it at one and the other, and in the third elections, I don't know what he's worried about RIK, the less the RIK will deal with SDS and all of those associations and all that following the political work of Boris Tadic. The Republic Election Commission in this configuration works in full quality. On the other hand, there are MPs who believe that between the two tweets sent from this room, they must know that they do not, that no MP has the right to determine whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not in conflict of interest. Whether there is a conflict of interest or not in the conflict of interest is determined by the Anti-Corruption Agency, under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Then the problem is when a law professor wants to put the law out of force, so that he determines whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not. Also, whether someone is in conflict of interest or not in conflict of interest, and this is a short course for teachers of rights who have a shortcut to work probably by talking on the phone or by sending tweets, to know if anyone in conflict of interest determines the government's Committee on Budgetary Affairs, but finally and finally, the Anti-Corruption Agency. It is a huge problem when someone from this place as a national MP, as a law professor, reduces the value of the Anti-Corruption Agency and says – I am an agency. It is he who will decide whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not in conflict of interest. No, gentlemen, it's done by the laws and the Constitution of this country. In other words, Mrs Ljubicic, who challenged this, caused nothing by this controversy, was very responsible in two terms for the work of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The quality at work of the Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has also qualified as Secretary of State in the Ministry of Interior and for everything it does within the RIK. I see that some people in this room are the biggest problem that some SNS member is. I understand them because they don't have that problem, because they don't even have a party. They have no membership, they have some movement, they have no voters, they have nothing, and then they have a problem when someone else has members and associates and friends and support with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'll do it again for those who don't want to hear. Whether there is a conflict of interest or not in the conflict of interest will be determined by the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Government's Committee on Budgetary Affairs, and RIK is doing a very good job and there is absolutely no reason to speak out of the agenda and to mention some names that are not on the agenda now and should be spoken of with full respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39342	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica, I was directly mentioned. I'm mentioned in my last name. You're not a professor of law school, I can't be that flexible. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday 16 November this year starting at 16.45 minutes as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Please, let us determine the quorum before we move to the vote. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 138 MPs present in the hall. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 11 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, v – five abstentions – no, 135 of the 153 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five SDA Sandzak MPs, the Party for Democratic Action, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 143 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. MPs Aleksandar Senic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 143 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Blagoja Bradic and Miroslav Marinkovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 141 of the total of 154 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ninoslav Stojadinović and Ivan Karic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – one, with abstention – there is no, 144 of the total 156 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by the National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 141 of the total of 156 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – one, with abstention – there is no, 144 of the total 156 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, v – one, abstention – one, 141 of the total of 156 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Jovan Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Aida Corovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 145 of the total 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We now approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax ejaculation in relation to income and property taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one with abstention – has voted eight of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic of Election Commission. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – two abstentions – there are no, 13 MPs did not vote, of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 10 November 2015, at 11 o'clock and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 126. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 146 MPs, of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 10 November 2015, at 11 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 172 and 176. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 MPs, of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the abovementioned members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been injured. National MP Janko Veselinović, at a session on 10 November 2015, at 11 o'clock and 59 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 146 MPs, of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 12 November 2015, at 11 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 146 MPs, of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 12 November 2015, at 13 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 MPs, of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 12 November 2015, at 14 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 MPs, of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Janko Veselinović, at a session on 12 November 2015, at 14 hours and 52 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 146 MPs, of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Natasa Vučković, at a session on 12 November 2015, at 16 hours and 06 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 MPs, of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 16 November 2015, at 11 o'clock and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 MPs, of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear Members, I would like to inform you that the beginning of the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly will begin immediately after the end of the fifth session of the regular session of the National Assembly. A delay in the start of this session was due to the agenda of the fifth session of the sitting by emergency procedure during the session, pursuant to Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 16 November 2015, at 12 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 146 MPs, of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. (session ended at 17.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39343	The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia 01 Issue: 06-2/467-15 of 16 November 2015 (The session began at 17.05 pm). The session is chaired by Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 158 MPs. Please specify the number of MPs present in the O.R. to insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 136 MPs present in the hall. No one signed up to be gone. Before setting out the agenda for the session, the Assembly should decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate. The government has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 11 MPs, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law on the Law of Objects be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 11 MPs, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft vehicle crew working time law in road transport and tachographs be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs out of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances in which the listening and publication of the transcripts of the talks between Lydia Udovici, "Contental Wind Serbia" and Bojan Pajtic, the president of the province's government and the Democratic Party, given the fact that the alleged attempt on corruption made by EMS Director Nikola Petrovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 MPs of the total number of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law on freedom of fear. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 142 MPs from the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a bill to supplement the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs out of the total 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a bill to supplement the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 MPs out of the total 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Somebody check for me on page ten, see if it's over. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 MPs of the total of 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Jovanovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted on 140 MPs from the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branka Karavidic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – draft law amending the Law on Public Information in the media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted on 140 MPs from the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39345	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right after the tragedy and death of seven people in the rescue mission "helicopter" on March 13, 2015, we submitted a proposal to the Assembly to decide together on the establishment of a survey board, with an assessment that not everything will go as the rule of law requires when it comes to determining facts and determining responsibility for this tragedy. Three days ago, it's been eight months since that tragedy, and in the meantime we witnessed a statement by the Secretary of Defense who said he was proud of that mission and that he repeated what was inappropriate to say if you had any feelings for the severity of the events that have been following us all these eight months. We had a disciplinary court that imposed penalties on the generals, that is, the situation that the Prime Minister protected the defence minister, and that the generals couldn't even have the protection of the rule of law. All this time, the assembly majority has refused to put the polling committee to the debate and to find the final answers to two key questions that remained unanswered in both the first and second commission reports and which there is no answer during the investigation that is still ongoing without any information. The first question - from whom, on the basis of which and what information did the defence minister make a decision of the wording which he or she broke the co-ordination orally and conveyed on the launch of the rescue mission "helicopter" on 13 March 2015? The second question - who changed the flight plan when the helicopter was already heading for Belgrade? These two questions are crucial to determining responsibility and however many times the majority of parliament considers that the survey committee is irrelevant and unnecessary, we will remind as many times as it is important and as necessary and as necessary to participate together in the construction of the rule of law and to disable the arrogance that has been given to repeat everything, only that it can, which would prevent the haughtiness of breach of protocol and humiliation of members of the Serbian Army and each minister, and reminded this minister to respond to the Assembly. Not to the party, not to your friends and friends, not to the Prime Minister, but to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39346	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 126 MPs out of 140 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: President, what is this? There's a card, there's no MPs. I insist that the quorum be determined. Wait for the service to take the cards out of all the benches. Did you take out the cards, I mean the service? Ambassador, are you in the O.R. or aren't you in the O.R.? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am in the hall.) You can see me, can you? You're in the O.R. Okay. Can I keep working? Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the property tax law. There can't be an MP looking for anything. He's got to sign up and look. So I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 114 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: we have no quorum. ) I will be very happy to talk to you if you answer the word, very gladly. I couldn't do it with Ambassador Senic, because he checked out. So I know very well what I'm doing. I can't talk to anyone who simulates he's in the O.R. Sign in and we'll talk. Here you go, Ambassador Senic. I'm glad you're here. Here you go. Marko Djurisic, I'm sorry, Senic is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39347	Thank you, President. As you yourselves know, the Assembly could decide, there must be a quorum of at least 126 members of Parliament present. You have now, in an electronic vote on the draft law, previously on the agenda of the session, found that it has been approached by 118 MPs, so that the conditions are not met, and this vote cannot be valid at all, nor can we do part of the session, setting the agenda, because we need a 126-seat quorum for that part of the session. Please, given that the ruling majority has a majority of over 200 MPs, to provide a quorum for work and to return the legality to this highest legislative home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39348	That's why I didn't read whether it was accepted or not. Does he want you to determine the quorum now? Ambassador Marco, please be kind for the record. Nice on the microphone. So, yeah. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. We know how many of us there are. It's no problem, we're doing a nice job. We don't have a quorum. Only 117 MPs are present, and I find that there are not enough MPs to vote on, so 126, and I ask that in 15 minutes, all the heads of Parliament provide quorum. The break shall be determined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 15 minutes. Please, if you'd like to continue your work in 15 minutes, you'll all be in the O.R. that you want to vote on. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I ask the MPs to insert their cards, to determine the quorum after the break. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. So, we're voting on a bill on additions to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 130 of the total attendance of 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 138 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocides on Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 136 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition. There you go, Gordana.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39350	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our proposal to amend and supplement the Law to arms and ammunition has a double intention and double content in the provisions that we ask that all those who hold, use and have permission to use firearms be subject to medical control, for the purpose of checking psychophysical abilities and health. Of course, our proposal does not apply to hunters and people who otherwise know how to handle weapons and respect weapons, not guns and guns, but who know that they use weapons they use for hunting, sports and game care. Nor does our proposal apply to professionals who have weapons such as guns and guns in their official use as part of their regular work, as the authority to use according to protocols that involve carrying and using firearms. What our proposal should include is a population in Serbia that has weapons, whether legally or illegally, for which no one really knows what kind of psychophysical state they are in and whether they really have all the parameters of a mature person who knows all about the use of weapons and who keeps those weapons both of themselves and themselves from others. It is not so rare to hear about the use of firearms, guns and guns, because they are neither used for killing savages nor for official use when it comes to civilians, citizens in Serbia. They serve to kill a man, to kill another human being. They don't kill guns, they kill people. That's why we asked our congregation to discuss that all those who want to hold, own and have the right to use guns and guns, have the obligation to pass tests and examine their psychophysical abilities and awareness of what it means to hold weapons. Not only would we prevent many and act preventively against many who shouldn't have guns on them, but we would show that we are committed to the rule of law and that there are conditions that society prescribes that you should have weapons and use weapons, if you were even allowed as a civilian to use guns and guns, except in self-defense. Please support this law with your vote. It is a common benefit and common concern in a society where there are too many weapons, too many unstable personalities, too much trauma in a post-conflict, post-traumatic society, in which we law-making must know who it is in Serbia who has guns and who intends to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39351	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. Do you want the word Miss Jerkov? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I positively interpret the fact that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia last time banned me from reading the names of the MPs of the SNS who 19 times refused to take part in crimes that do not become obsolete. It is positively interpreted because I conclude from this that the President of the National Assembly understands that it is a shame that the Assembly does not include this bill 19 times in the agenda, and therefore I further conclude that the other MPs who do not vote for this bill are also ashamed and then I conclude from it that it means that maybe or this time, and then some of the following times all together adopt the bill that I am offering here, which is that the criminal code is changed only in one of their members, that is to say, among the crimes that do not become obsolete include the criminal act of stealing babies. It is not about what I invented or what I personally think should be done, in 2013, the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of our fellow citizen Zorica Jovanovic, concluded that she was injured by the right to privacy, that the Republic of Serbia violated the right to privacy when more than 20 years earlier, a stolen child from a maternity ward who was told she was dead, which is a scenario that is repeated in all these cases. The Republic of Serbia is obliged to adopt a legislative framework by September 2014. In November 2015, the Republic of Serbia did not continue to do so. For more than six months at every session, I suggest that something like this be done. I personally do not understand why the ruling majority in this congregation rejects it. I say, I think it's a good thing the president is ashamed that the names of MPs who don't want to vote for this proposal are read, but that doesn't change the fact that citizens will know that SNS MPs don't want to be included in criminal acts that don't go out of date in child theft. In the hope that this time will be different, I call again the MPs to vote for it, and if not, let us suggest it again, we will not be ashamed if you are not already ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39353	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 129 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2015. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39354	The Turnover Movement and I believe that this country does not belong only to the richest, that this country does not belong only to new Latifundists, new capitalists who, through the original accumulation of capital and by paying employees 125 dinars per hour, which is the lowest wage in the world of 154 dinars in the countries in which it is measured, do not think that this country should belong only to media billionaires, estrogen stars, but I believe that this is a country, a country of all citizens. Therefore, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, in collaboration with the Efficient Association, I proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. We called that law against the banking monopoly. For the fifth time, I propose to the MPs to accept this law, to vote beyond party disciplines because this law is nothing more than a fight against green contracts. This law is directed against the immorality of banks, their management that can only behave in Serbia in this way. This law is directed against disproportionate giving in relation to banks – a client who exists only in Serbia and who only the NBS does not deserve that name to allow and listen to what the bankers say, as the government of the Republic of Serbia does, and not what the endangered citizens say. Is it normal to support the proposal to determine what costs banks charge to citizens, that these costs are reduced to the level of other countries in the world and that Serbian citizens do not pay both known and unknown costs and that part of their small pay goes to that too? Why don't you support a law that would allow users of financial services to participate in creating general conditions of existence that penetrate deep into their rights. I invite you fellow MPs to support this anti-monopol law and to support the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39355	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 132 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on the conversion of loans in Swiss francs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 September 2015. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39356	For the fifth time, I am explaining the law jointly written by the people of the Turnover Movement and the "Effective" activists, which goes towards protecting 100,000 Serbian citizens, to protect 50,000 children who are left behind or who threaten to lose their roof over their heads every day. They were promised by the most powerful man in Serbia a month ago to solve their problem, to solve their problem within 15 days. It's been a month he hasn't solved their problem. He said a lie of course, although the chairman would allow me to say a more difficult word, but I suppose he would take away my word. So I'm going to take another chance to call you, fellow MPs, because I assume you are representatives of the people, to hear the position of the users of these loans. So, in charge of Zrenjanin S.I. He has a salary of 23,000 dinars, and his credit war is 38,000 dinars. So the pay ratio -- the war is 167%. A user of T.A. From Saturday, there's a war loan of 89,000 and her salary is 65,000. He doesn't have a little pay, but the credit war is way above that. Now, listen to these people who are in the hardest position. The R.A. from Belgrade has a 67,000-dollar loan war, and its salary is 37,000 dinars or D.A. From Jagodina who has a war loan of 38,000, and her salary is 22,000 or D.U. There is a 76,000 loan war in Belgrade, and her salary is 22,000 and it is no wonder that many of these people are seriously ill, some have committed suicides. Last time I read you the names of people and their fates they went through, but I remind you of your fellow 50,000 children in those families.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39357	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39358	So, the prime minister has promised to solve this problem, he hasn't solved it...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39359	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – there is no, 132 out of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2015. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39360	On behalf of the PRECRET Movement, which has growing support in Serbia, I have proposed a law that would allow fair elections. That's right, the PRECRET Movement has growing support for Serbian citizens. I have proposed a law to ensure that the next elections are fair. I proposed on behalf of the PRECRET Movement amending the Criminal Law that would sanction stealing in the elections, which would sanction threats, blackmail, buying votes for dry-meat products, for jobs, blackmail for staying in jobs. This law clearly states that the crime is the use of force or threat to demand or to force another to provide evidence of how he voted in the elections. So, every photographing and carrying out evidence from the polling post is sanctioned as someone voted, so that there is no situation in Serbia that public service employees, people who are under pressure for a job must bring evidence to employers as they voted. The employers, of course, in the public sector. We suggested punishing not only force, threats, blackmail, but organization, violation of electoral law. We now have the situation that, for the violation of freedom in free expression elections, "only those who buy votes", who bring money, dried-meat products, and do not respond to their employers, and these are most often the heads of local committees of parties, of course, in power, which in the Old Town these days share packages of dry meat products. So they're not responding. To be clear, neither do those who buy votes, and we had in the last vote to buy votes, and we had in the next local elections from the city to the city to buy votes. Some even admitted to buying votes, however, were not sanctioned. They are not sanctioned because they are in a coalition with the parties in power and that is why the PRECRET Movement is now and in the coming period they will say they will not recognise the elections in which votes are bought. We have called on opposition parties to stand in front of the protection of freedom of choice, to protect free expression of will in the elections and to prosecute those who violate this will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39361	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – three, abstentions – there are no, 132 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014. Does MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group has proposed and I have tabled a proposal to put the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government on this session. The essence of this supplement is that in Article 20. The law after point 16. adds point 16a, which would read – regulates and secures the scholarship of students and students. Namely, now is the scholarship of students and students in the jurisdiction of the Republic. We know the state of the republican budget and the opportunities to help materially endangered students and students. And so we have a big problem with young school graduates leaving this country and so we have to show more understanding and help them finish their schools and make sure they stay here in some way. Local self-governments are more often in contact with citizens and therefore have more understanding of the problems of schooling students and students, and in line with their budgets, they separate certain funds. However, they cannot define this as a scholarship of students and students because they do not have a legal basis, but they do so through providing various types of material assistance to materially endangered students and students. We therefore proposed to pass a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which would give local self-government the legal basis for regulating this matter to adopt criteria which would detailedly regulate the way of scholarship and to allocate in the budget the funds that would be called as they should because they serve that purpose. I suggest this already several times, and I don't know why we all talk about how much we need to help and Natalie and that young people are educated and that they stay in Serbia, the ruling majority has no understanding, whether because people who are in some key places in the ruling majority have come to their diploma and doctorate in a very questionable and hasty way, so they have no understanding of materially endangered students.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39363	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on the draft law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. Does MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group has also submitted a bill on draft laws and I have suggested that it be included in this item of the agenda. I think that at the previous session, there was a particular cause for us to insist that such a law be passed at this session. In fact, this matter is regulated only by a few members of the Constitution and the Law on the Assembly, and it is mostly regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which means also sublegal acts which do not seem to have much meaning and strength for the ruling majority. In recent times, in the last two, three years, the largest number of laws has been passed by an emergency procedure without respect for that standard procedure. Then, laws are generally passed without the translation of a public debate, without consultation of relevant factors that can give their opinion and proposals and contribute to the quality of the law, and even when public debates are conducted, they usually have a limited character and in a narrow circle without a wider public. Provisions on the entry into force of the following day from the day of publication in the “Official Messenger” are increasingly emerging instead of eight days from the day of publication. Also, this Assembly has adopted a resolution on a legislative policy that provides that, in addition to the draft law, the Assembly of Delivery and the sublegal acts accompanying the law, its application. However, none of the proposings have so far submitted proposals for sublegal acts envisioned by the law. It means that all the exceptions in the existing rules in practice in this ruling majority have become rules and to prevent such arbitrary behaviour we suggest that this matter be regulated by law-making that would clearly prescribe the procedure for the adoption of the law, because we believe that respect for the procedure is necessary in order to achieve legal certainty and to create a legal state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39365	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. 133 MPs of 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, on 29 June 2015. Here you are, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39366	Thank you, Chairman. Well, this is the sixth, fifth time we try to put the National Assembly's agenda of amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act, which we wrote at the end of June of this year when citizens received solutions issued by local self-government on property tax for 2015, which was 20, 30, 80%, in some cases and 300, 400% higher than solutions for 2014. We felt it was completely inappropriate to listen to the government's representative daily in the year of painful reforms and fiscal consolidation, when citizens' incomes are less real than in 2014 or previous years, obligations towards the state itself which determines by establishing the amount of tax on property, being higher, I repeat, 20, 30, 80%, and even several times more. The essence of this law that is very short and has five members is in two things. The first is that the property tax is paid on land unlike the total land area, i.e. building land and an untaxable area of 10 acres. For the first time this year, only some people under a completely unclear criterion have been delivered tax solutions where the first tax on property is also calculated, on land on which the property is located. The tax is worth several thousand euros depending on the size and place it is located. We find it entirely inappropriate for you to calculate that tax in this way and at this point, and our proposal is to introduce an untaxable part of 10 acres. The next change is that the property tax, the right of property in the building or apartment in which the obligor resides alone or with members of the household is not paid on the surface of 25 square meters per obligor, as well as for each household member. The point is, as you know, according to the current solution if the owner of the property lives in that facility, he can obtain a tax exemption of 50% of the tax value. We think that this way of calculating is fairer, we think that 25 square meters is minimum for the normal existence of one person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39367	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 132 of the total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. Does Mr. Bradic want a word? Sign up. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39368	Will you just repeat the law, I didn't hear you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39369	Proposal for a law amending the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, on the 12th time, I propose to this assembly majority to consider amending the Health Insurance Bill's proposal and thus correct one injustice against our fellow citizens, which is around 4.5 million in RS. What am I talking about? I'm talking about contributing to health insurance. the contributions paid to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, financed by health care obligations in the RS, shall be paid by 4.5 million workers and they shall not be entitled to dental healthcare through the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and the right to dental healthcare through these funds shall be less than 18 years old, pupils and students up to 26 years of age, pregnant women and over 65 years of age in certain types of dental services of dentistry. What was the reason why I propose to this assembly majority is that I really don't understand why the MPs who talk about making life easier for Serbian citizens don't accept this law is that in the Fund of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, that is. There are over 350 million dinars of unallocated funds in his budget for this year. A moment ago, dear colleagues, we listened to Mr. Minister from the Ministry of Finance, who said it was never better in the Republic budget, that there was money, that the deficit was minimal, that even if there was no return of those loans to be a surplus, and you do not want to accept my proposal to amend the law where you would do a favor to Serbian citizens and allow them to in this difficult time when there is great unemployment, when very few people working in the real sector, to get the right to fix their teeth from their resources. I really don't understand that. I don't understand my colleagues who say their health is above all, why don't they vote? I ask you once again, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, those who pay the contributions, who fill the budget of the Republic Fund, who are the only ones who do not have the right to use part of their money in that fund for dental health care, accept today my proposal and put this item on the agenda to consider this session, so that we can change Article 41, and so that the citizens of Serbia, who pay the contributions, can...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39371	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 128 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39372	Thank you, Chairman. For the sixth time I try to put on the agenda and agree my colleagues to vote on supplementing the Value Added Tax Act whose essence is very simple, which is that baby food is taxed at a special rate of 10% VAT instead of a valid rate of 20%. Although, when we last discussed the proposal for amendments and additions to the VAT Act, I did not find the negative position of my fellow MPs, nor the negative position of the minister on this initiative, I cannot get the majority's support to put this law on the agenda, and try to in one way, small one, but we seem, symbolically important, to show that we care about Serbia's future. The general place is that every year the number of Serbian citizens is growing, 30 thousand is an estimate of each just because of negative birth, to reduce the number of Serbian citizens by 30,000. If we count here and those who leave Serbia because they can't find a job here, they can't start a family, they can't provide an economic future, that number is probably getting bigger and bigger. I think we're in a situation where Serbia's future is compromised. Our proposal, when we proposed this, was for the government, or as MPs, to show that we have an understanding of the problem that Serbian citizens are facing today and to try a small gesture to show that we understand and that we want to help. Of course, this measure, if adopted, would not make it much easier, but could be part of a package of measures that would make Serbia go against this monster. Unfortunately, that's not happening. There is no answer from the government or from the ruling majority in any way to deal with this. We hear announcements from time to time that the state is going to deal with this problem, but we haven't got any solutions until today. I call on you, fellow MPs, to vote for this proposal, to open this discussion here in parliament and that, if the government can't, we adopt measures to fight for Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39373	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 130 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Temporary Regulation and the way in which pensions were paid, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39374	Thank you, Your Honor. I have no dilemma that the ruling majority MPs will not vote for this bill. At the end of the line, we discussed it today and that. You had the opportunity to take the essence of this law by accepting amendments to the law that we discussed earlier today and adopted. But anyway, I will continue to fight for the agenda to come up with a draft law on the suspension of the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid. More than a year ago, the ruling majority passed a law that reduced pensions for 600,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pensions established by law, pensions, pensions that were not social measures, but were determined on the basis of the amounts all employed in the Republic of Serbia over the past 40, 50 years, which they had already worked for. I don't think the government had the right to reduce the pensioner's belongings once. It's earned. They had no choice but to choose whether to invest in a government fund or another fund, because that other fund was not there at the time. They had to pay a part of their pension every month. The state can't say today that there's no such money, or that it's not just for some. If he doesn't, he can't have it for everyone, not just some. The answers we heard when we discussed the previous budget days are that the budget is great, that fiscal consolidation measures give us unprecedented results, but that, unfortunately, is not true. We're referring to the IMF. Well, the IMF says Serbia's economic growth is the smallest in the region. The economic growth of the region is 2.6% and Serbia's economic growth is less than 1%. Economic growth next year will be 1.5%, and that will be the least in the region again. In this way and in this policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia implements, we will not be in a situation where what is in this law, whose placing out of force we are looking for, and that is the temporary nature to ever end. This law on temporary adjustment of pension payments, unfortunately, will become permanent. Temporality won't come. There will be a permanent reduction in pensions. I think it should stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39375	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there are no votes, 130 of the total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39376	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Nislija, for the sixth time in a row, I propose to the assembly majority to amend the two laws concerning public information and electronic media. Five times this congregation majority did not want to accept. My reasons for the proposal to reconsider these two laws are that by passing these laws more than a year and a half ago in Serbia we got citizens first and second order, we got citizens who have a obligation to pay public service, but they don't have the same opportunities to use in the whole territory. Namely, what's this about? This law abolished the right of local self-government to finance local public services and was done throughout the territory. No place on the territory of the Republic of Serbia has the right to do so anymore. There are only public media services of RTS and RT Vojvodina. The Serbian Radio Television is for the whole territory, at least that's what the documents say, and TV for AP Vojvodina territory. They are funded from taxis that were 500 dinars under the law. We hear a few days ago from the prime minister that it will be 150 dinars, but the rest needed to finance RTS and RTV will be replaced from the republican budget. It's our money again. What makes Serbian citizens under the Sava and Danube citizens is that they do not have the opportunity to use public media services in the same capacity as the citizens of Belgrade and Vojvodina. The whole of Serbia cannot stand under Sava and Danube in the "chronic" region. Nor can the "black chronicle" of the place under Sava and Danube be in the "cronic of the region". Serbian citizens have the right to local, i.e. on regional public services, and I have proposed to the party Together for Serbia, SDS and Green Serbia, to reconsider these two laws in order to change and allow us to have equal information throughout the territory. The way in which radio television is financed would cover the territory under Sava and Danube with its two television and three radio programmes would be the same as financing Radio Television Vojvodina. Seventy per cent of the funds would be left to finance Serbia's Radio Television, and 30% of the funds would go to finance Serbia's Radio Television. And I think it's fair and correct for all citizens. You in Nis now have the situation that a few days ago the Assembly was delayed, the City Assembly in Nis was not held because there was no media transfer of the session. The congregation majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39377	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 130 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39378	National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and Public Media Sessions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39379	Thank you. I'll pick up where I left off. So the City Assembly was delayed because the opposition's boards required television transmission. The only way for citizens to have information is to transfer the Assembly, about what is happening in the city, as the city's budget is being allocated, as a two-billion-dollar loan is being deployed, what is the situation in public enterprises. By this law that we have passed, i.e. which you voted a year and more than a year and a half ago, we put these citizens in a subordinate position. They do not have the opportunity to have local public media services, and on the other hand they do not have the opportunity to hear and see what is important to them, because Serbia is large under Sava and Danube cannot fit into one RTS programme, especially in the region's chronicle. I therefore ask you colleagues, especially colleagues from Nis to support my proposal in order to enable the establishment of regional public media services under Sava and Danube, in order to equalise the rights of citizens of Serbia with those of citizens in Belgrade and who have citizens in Vojvodina. Not to mention, under the Constitution, we have an obligation to ensure that national minorities and by law are represented at a public media service. You have the possibility in Vojvodina that national minorities have a certain part of the program in the RTTV scheme. Under Sava and Danube there is no such thing. They have the legal right to form and finance local media services in their native language. Then you have one paradox. National minorities under Sava and Danube can have public media services in their native language, and the majority Serb population has no right. I ask you to reconsider before the vote, to support my proposal so that we can legally return this to normal flows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39380	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 128 of the total of 135 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the law on contributions to compulsory social security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2015. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39381	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, on 1 August 2014, this assembly majority, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and then Minister Krstic, decided to make 2% of the contributions from health insurance that was then 12.3% to the PIO Fund, which was then 24% to receive and that the PIO Fund is now 26% of the earnings. The justification and justification given by the Minister of Finance at the time, Mr Krstic was that he had extra money in the RFZO, that the reduction of 2% of health contributions would not damage the insurance companies at all, and that the level of health care and the level of rights and obligations towards those insurance companies would remain the same. By your vote, we're as the Professor says. Krstic, 300m euros from the position of the Health Fund, transferred to the PIO Fund, thus reducing the donation and donation from the republican budget to the PIO Fund, by 300m annually. A short time ago, the current finance minister was talking about a surplus, one part of that surplus being the discharge of the pension budget in the Republic of Serbia. What have we done with that? The budget of the Republic Fund in 2014 was 236 billion, the 2015 budget was voted 215.7 billion, which means we have a reduction of more than 20 billion for the same amount of insurance rights. What still happened, by reducing the rate of contribution to 10.3%, the income from contributions to employees who were 165.9 billion dinars, it's realistic because there are more levels of funding for the Republic Fund, fell from 165.9 billion in 2015 to 125 billion, which is 40 billion living money less for the RFZO. The funds to be received from the republic's budget under Article 22, where over a million and 300,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia are financed from the republic's budget, this year instead of 12 billion fell to only 530 million and we have a situation where these millions and 300,000 people have four euros in the republican fund for a year for treatment, instead of 120. From all this, I insist and appeal to my colleagues, especially doctors, to accept my proposal to return the money to the RFZO...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39382	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 130 of the 134 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 May 2015. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39383	I thank the president. My last law, which I will propose to the Republic Assembly, to accept and re-debate injustice against Serbian citizens, the famous "Belgrade on Water" Act. There are two reasons why I suggest we discuss this law again. The first is that it is anti-constitutional, deeply affecting the integrity of the private property of each of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The law on expropriation is very clear and he says that the state i.e. Local self-government can expropriate if it is of general public interest, and the general public interest under the Expropriation Act is the construction of schools, kindergartens, hospitals, construction of a facility of general purpose. This time, the assembly majority, respected Serbian citizens, voted lex specialis, giving the right to the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade to buy private property in a part of the Belgrade municipality near the Sava River, under the pretext that this is a general interest in building residential business facilities. It's not right, it's not legal, and it's downhill. I ask the congregation's majority to consider what she voted on a few months ago. The second reason I suggested is the way to finance that expropriation and order the Sava plateau, as they call it, because it has no communal equipment at all. So water, electricity, sewerage and traffic will be financed, but no, respected citizens of Serbia, as in your local budget seats, but will be financed from the republican budget. It is about expropriation and infrastructure construction of hundreds of millions of euros. I ask the congregation's majority to consider and to focus that money where we say it is most needed, which is in the creation of new jobs and in the opening of Serbia's economy. I don't see what Serbia's rebirth is to make 300 apartments in the Sava plateau, and that structure -- one bedroom, two bedroom and three bedroom. Without paying the utility, without buying the building land, because this law has given the possibility of renting for 99 years, with whoever leased it has the right to buy only part under the facility after building the use of the permit. It really doesn't exist in the country of Serbia. I once again ask that, on behalf of citizens who are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia, consider where we have defined that money as a Assembly, to change the decision and to use that money in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-16-0.u39384	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 131 of the total attendance of 134 MPs. National MP, i.e. myself, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure, proposed a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Law on Law of Law on the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Prime Ministers and Cataster, Proposal for a Law on the Registration and Recording of Regiment in Undefined Time in Apartments in Citizens, Delegations and Foundations, Proposal for a Law on Commercial Shipage, Proposal for a Law on the Working Time of the crew of vehicles in road transport and tachographs, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Construction of an Interstate Bridge across the Drina River with accompanying facilities on the location of Ljubovija – Bratunac and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Changes and Supplements of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of the Federal Council of Yugoslavia and Switzerland. I don't want a word and I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we've come to terms with all the proposals, I'm putting to the vote the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted three of the 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. D n e n e d d: 1.Proposal of the Law on the Law of Objects; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on State Crossover and Catastrophe; 3. Proposal for a law on the registration and registration of the tenants indefinitely in dwellings in the property of the citizens, responsibilities and foundations; 4. Proposal for a law on commercial shipping; 5. Proposal for a working time law of the crew of the vehicle in road transport and tachographs; 6. Proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the construction of an interstate bridge across the Drina River with accompanying facilities at the site of Ljubovija – Bratunac; 7. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Swiss Federal Council; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. As promised, we'll continue our work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
