ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23615	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As you know, this special session I have called for the National Assembly to be addressed by Her Excellency, Mrs An Brasser, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, Her Excellency Mrs An Brasser, and next to her, to the other members of the delegation Her Excellency Tim Cartrait, Head of Mission of the Council of Europe, Artermy Kartenko, Deputy Chief of the Cabinette of President Anne Brasser and Javheni Kzizanovski, adviser to President An Brasser. Now I ask Her Excellency Mrs. Anne Brasser to take her word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23616	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will now speak in my own language, and this is all I know to say in Serbian, with your permission I will continue speaking in English, with the help of the translator. It's a pleasure and I have a special privilege to address you today. This is my second visit to this region. I was in Zagreb two weeks ago, and I'm going to Sarajevo tomorrow. I am very grateful to the president of the National Assembly, Maji Gojkovic, for inviting me to Serbia and for giving me the opportunity to address you today as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I want to thank you for coming to this session, because I know this is a special session and I know what it means for Parliamentarians to do extra work. So thank you for being here today. It is very important for me to go to different places to get to know the whole region better, each country in particular and especially to make personal contacts, because politics comes down to people, they are people, they are human beings, so these personal contacts are very important, but not just personal relations with politicians, but also with civil society. I met with representatives of civil society yesterday. So to say, I've had a chance to give a lecture at the university, and it's important for me to have contact with academics and young people. Your country is a young member of the Council of Europe, since you joined not so long ago, some 12 years ago, but if we look at the changes that have happened since then, they are huge. Today Serbia is a stable, democratic, more ethnic and more cultural state. She is an EU candidate country. She is also an important player on the European stage, given that the chairman of the OSCE is also one of the main factors in the region where you have huge responsibility. What may be even more important is that Serbia shares the values of the pan-European community and the highest standards in the field of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes I have just talked about are very important for Serbia, especially for the citizens of your country who must be able to benefit from the high standards that the Council of Europe provides in the area of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. I would like to commend the authorities in Serbia, as well as political actors for their determined start of the reform process. You have made great progress in strengthening your democratic institutions, reforms, electoral system and justice, fighting corruption, which undermines our democracy, so we really must fight it in all our countries. You have also made great progress in strengthening local self-government, as well as in achieving minority rights. I am proud that the bodies of the Council of Europe, including our Parliamentary Assembly, have contributed greatly to achieving these great results. Last week, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers discussed co-operation between Serbia and the Council of Europe and, based on progress made, decided to suspend this regular assessment based on dialogue. This is one positive news and I really welcome it with all my heart and I want to congratulate you again on it. However, let me give you some advice. Serbia, a democratic state based on human rights and the rule of law, is always something we have to work on. The freedom we have, we can't take it for granted, so we have to make a lot of effort, because we can always do better in all the Member States of the Council of Europe. You must not stand halfway in the reform process, no matter what you have done, all political actors must engage in achieving a common goal, which is to strengthen democracy in Serbia, maintain the rule of law and guarantee the protection of human and minority rights in line with the highest European standards. I'd like to highlight a few priority areas. The reform of the judiciary should continue to take place on the basis of the results already achieved, in particular in order to achieve greater efficiency of the courts, reduce delays in court proceedings and ensure the implementation of the judgments reached at national level. Reforms should continue to boost media pluralism and increase media transparency. The recently adopted media laws represent the appropriate legal framework. Their implementation should now be first priority. Journalists must be immune to pressure and inappropriate influences while respecting the principles of professional ethics in their work. There is no freedom without responsibility. Minority rights should be continued on the basis of the good legislative framework that already exists. It is necessary to further improve the effective implementation of legislation in the field of combating discrimination. Support for independent bodies with a supervisory role should be strengthened, as they already play an active and positive role in protecting and improving human rights, as well as in controlling government work. As Parliamentarians, one of our duties is to control the government's work, whether we're in the ruling party or the opposition. Their knowledge and recommendation should be carefully considered and properly applied. In all these, as in many other areas, the Council of Europe provides valuable professional assistance and support. You also have at your disposal co-contractors and monitoring the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, which can provide you with political support. I would also stress that these reforms are essential to Serbia's European integration. In order for you to succeed, it's necessary to have all the cards on your side. All countries in the region are going through or through the process of European integration. Some are more advanced and have already joined the EU and therefore cooperation and exchange of experiences are important. I know, Madam President, that you are visiting your neighbouring countries, your colleagues, the presidents of the neighbouring countries' parliaments, which is also very important. So do not hesitate to learn from your neighbors and share your experiences with them. By joining forces, you can move much faster on your way to the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I would like to share with you some thoughts on the challenges that our organisation must face, which require a coordinated response from all Member States. The first challenge I would mention is to oppose the expression of extremism. The recent terrorist attacks in Denmark and France have shaken the legal foundations of our societies. There must be no excuse for terrorism and it is our organisation's duty to contribute to finding an effective response to such a threat. Terrorism is undoubtedly the most visible and dangerous threat our society must face. Today, however, there are other threats in Europe that are far less obvious at first sight, although they have devastating consequences, they undermine the very foundations of our democratic societies. The population is booming, growing, it's devastating and sometimes flammable rhetoric is increasingly present in political discourse. The hate speech is becoming more and more widespread on the Internet. Let me stress in this context the following – politicians have a special responsibility to promote tolerance and respect. All democratic political forces must clearly advocate against destructive populist rhetoric, intolerance and hate speech. We must remain united despite all our political differences, we must remain united and strongly protect our values from dangers and extremism. The Parliamentary Assembly is now ready to respond to this challenge. In January 2015, so two months ago we formally launched a parliamentary alliance against hatred. It is one pan-European political platform for fighting racism, hatred, intolerance, as well as for promoting co-existence, mutual life. We look forward to the participation of the Parliaments of the Council of Europe in this project. Another challenge that would highlight regional co-operation. Regional stability is key to the European perspective of this region. Not long ago, this region was the scene of devastating wars that resulted in thousands of victims, destroyed families, refugees and missing persons. The only way to heal war wounds and sudden reconciliation is to improve dialogue and co-operation. European integration has been based on the same principles for the past 60 years, to achieve justice for past events on the one hand and to join forces in finding common solutions to common challenges, on the other. There is no sustainable peace without justice and no justice without truth. It is our duty to tell the truth, to condemn the disgusting war crimes committed during the conflicts of the '90s and to show political commitment to bringing those responsible to justice. I would point out, there must be no impunity for human rights violations, impunity especially when it comes to war crimes, crimes against humanity. That is why today when the UN tribunal's latest processes end, all countries in the region should step up efforts at national level and allow justice, truth and compensation for victims. Also, good co-operation with The Hague tribunal is essential for the end of the ongoing trial. Serbia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal is good. I encourage your authorities to keep moving in the same direction. At the same time, a clear commitment by politicians is needed to find common solutions to the problems facing countries in the region. First of all, I think of the need to find sustainable solutions for refugees displaced during the conflict. The activities on this plan have recently been increased and I would like to commend the politicians of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia for their political commitment to the so-called Sarajevo process. The missing persons issue should also remain a key priority. Progress has been made on this plan, which is indeed commendable and I welcome the adoption of the State Declaration on the role of the country in resolving the issue of persons missing due to war conflicts and violations of human rights, signed by the presidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia last August. Such commitment at the highest political level should foster further progress. Finally, when we talk about regional co-operation, I must welcome the positive development of events in dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. The first agreement on the principles governing normalisation of relations was a key point in this process and I am convinced that further progress will be made in the future, because we really need even greater progress. As you know, activities in the Council of Europe in Kosovo are being carried out in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Our main goal is to ensure that all European citizens, I stress, without exception, enjoy standards in the fields of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Our co-operation activities in Kosovo are in line with this goal and I welcome Serbia's constructive approach to this issue that has allowed our organisation to launch a number of projects in Kosovo. In the end, but nothing less important, the issue of the crisis in Ukraine. This is probably one of the most serious challenges we must face today in Europe. This crisis must not be resolved by military means. The recently reached agreement in Minsk gives us a piece of hope, but it is only a hint, but let's give peace a chance, because we need peace in Ukraine to support it to achieve the necessary conditions for building a stable, democratic state based on the rule of law. As you know, the Council of Europe has the necessary mechanisms and expertise, the expertise to support these reforms. We are now implementing a new action plan for the period 2015 to 2017 to support reforms in the field of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. At the same time, we must continue working on a European and international plan to protect the fundamental principles of international law. Respect for territorial integrity is a fundamental principle of international law. The limits cannot be changed unilaterally or by force. All Member States must respect these principles. For this very reason, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe decided to introduce and extend sanctions to the Russian delegation at the last meeting. Some members of the Parliamentary Assembly, including members of the Serbian delegation, did not support this approach. As President of the Parliamentary Assembly, I must respect the way in which all members of the parliamentary assembly vote, but it is also my role to make sure that the decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly are implemented. Let me be clear, we did not exclude a delegation from the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. So we confirmed their mandates so we could work with them and find a solution to the crisis in Ukraine. We are still ready to begin serious, constructive talks with members of the Russian delegation. But I've met with Russian Duma three times in the last few months. However, it will be difficult to continue this dialogue, as we were recently informed that a delegation of Russia had decided to break all contacts with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe by the end of 2015. I'm sorry about your decision. I hope we find ways to maintain communication. As President of the Parliamentary Assembly, I will explore all opportunities to achieve dialogue through parliamentary diplomacy and I really count on the support of all members of the Parliamentary Assembly in order to achieve success. Thank you for your support and help, because we really can't afford the luxury of not talking to each other. Dear Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, there are great challenges ahead of us, and in my address today, I was able to focus only on some of the issues that we need to tackle, which we must address, but we must not give up. As elected politicians representing 820 million Europeans, we have a political duty to work together and find solutions. Human rights, democracy and rule of law are neither left nor right nor center. When it comes to protecting the fundamental rights of our citizens, we must be united. There's going to be trouble on the road and so far there's been some difficulties and we've got a lot of work to do, but I'm sure we'll make it, because we have to succeed. We have no other choice. We can change things together, I'm stressing together. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23617	I thank Her Excellency for his address. I am concluding the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Resume of the First Session of the First Regular Session is at 11.00 p.m. The session is closed at 10.25 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23618	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT First session of the First Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Fifth Day of Work) 01 Issue: 06-2/90-15 10 March 2015 Belgrade (The session began at 11.05 pm). The session is chaired by Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23619	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 151 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 122 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23620	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Serbia's Renewal Movement, a Serbian political brand celebrated 25 years of political action yesterday following the reconstruction of the multi-party in Serbia. One of the main programming goals of our political party is the restoration of traditional values, restoration of historical memories and full contribution to national reconciliation. Last year we marked a hundred years since the beginning of World War I. My question will be asked to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Mr. Alexander Vulin, and as regards the following. Serbia has a rich film industry. Our films, directors and writers are very good, popular and there are a number of cult films. But unfortunately, apart from the movie "March on the Drin", there is not one single shot, a film played about the brilliant Serbian military victories in the Balkan and First World War. It's a great shame for Serbia. Instead, we continue to be rephrased to unconscious series such as "Sented", and the film "Optioned", and the fictional "Return of the Off" in which ideological divisions, fictional personalities, and fictional events are once again meant to serve as our historical consciousness in bringing up future generations. On the other hand, Serbia has something to talk about and the film industry. In addition to the 1914 Church Battle, the Bregal Battles, the Battles of Kajmakalan, in Kumanovo, we can make a film, say, about the crossing of the Serbian army, government and population across Albania, when in nearly a month and a half of the superhuman march, 72,000 people died in the impasses of Albania. Instead, we have a film that was also funded by the state, called the "Igman March". The Igman march lasted one night. The honor of the anti-fascists who fought and where their deaths have been shown faithfully, as far as the frozen few fingers are concerned. On the comparison of the Igman March, where there were no victims and which lasted one night, and Albanian gogoths, I think it's too much to talk about. We don't have a film about the Colubar Battle, Serbia's greatest victory in World War I, about 1,300 capillaries who have left school and joined the Colubar battle and given their lives, most of them, and they were meant to be Serbia's future elite. We don't have a movie about the Mojkovite battle. We don't have any film about the government and the army's residence at Corfu and great behavior, about the stay of the wounded and the sick on the island of Vido, about the Blue Tomb, about the Thessaloniki Front, about the battles of the Good Field of the Serbian and French infantry, about the breach of the Thessaloniki Front, about how even in three countries of North Africa our soldiers left their bones in the First World War. Serbia has largely forgotten those who have owed not only ours, but all the previous and all future generations, those who are for what we have today, called freedom, gave the greatest Christian value, which is life. I think communism is officially gone, but Serbia's biggest problem today is the rooted communist heritage. I think Serbia really needs to make efforts in all segments of its operation to free itself once and for all, to stop ideological divisions, to finance and rephrase ideological films, because they have a major impact on the formation of consciousness and the historical memory of all generations. That is why my question to Mr. Vulin – what will the Ministry, which deals with these issues, do in the segment of its action that this great historical injustice against those who have put us in charge of correction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23621	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23622	Thank you, President. I ask my question to the Ministry of Agriculture. I ask, when will the disturbance in the purchase of milk and cattle that appeared in the Republic of Serbia be resolved? Yesterday, about 500 couples protested in Bogatic, dissatisfied with having no one to sell their milk and no one to sell their cattle in which they invested a lot. In the villages of Vojvodina, there has been no one to buy milk for almost three weeks. People spill their milk or make cheese out of it, say they have full cheese freezers that have no one to sell. Key requirements for the intervention of pigmeat and milk market surpluses would help stabilise the disturbances both in production and in purchase. Due to obvious disturbances in the meat and milk market, cattle farmers require an urgent intervention buy-in at the price of 185 dinars per kilograms living measures, the intervention buying-in of milk and the ban on imports of pigmeat and milk by the end of the year. Farmers point out that they know that the state has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but no one is explaining why they have not taken advantage of the possibility to apply Article 32, which almost all countries have used in the transition process to join the European Union to protect domestic producers. Our couples also suspect that the state will not do so not because of Europe, but because it protects large buyers, or what we call them - tycoons, which are responsible for importing live pigs, meat, and meat of suspicious origin. I also ask the Ministry of Agriculture - when will the rules on exports, processing and transport of meat change? There has been an increase in supply in Serbia's passenger market due to increased imports of pigs and pig meat. We also know that the dairy market also cares about what has been imported, in a way, powdered milk, so our pairs are badly damaged. I ask the Ministry of Agriculture - when will it be established, for which interest is it allowed to import third category meat and large quantities of frozen pig meat, at the time when farmers in Serbia can't sell their customers and why has it not begun exporting pig meat to Russia, as was once announced? When will a solution be found for the problem on the market? Minister Ljajic recently said that the exchange of several options to address problems on the domestic market is being carried out, including an increase in some, to say, the conditions for importing it. The other option is for different kinds of incentives and subsidies, which our couples are certainly waiting for because they need help. Agriculture has been a guardian of social peace for many years, but in the development and livestock and dairy industry and agriculture is not thought at all. I ask the Minister of Agriculture - when will agriculture be our development opportunity, when will we consider helping farmers in this country, rather than destroying them? Especially here, I mean young people who have stayed in the countryside, who want to live in a country of agriculture, but as soon as they invest in more cattle, they choke. As soon as they invest perhaps more money in another production of agriculture, they are destroyed again, so a difficult year comes for farmers, unless both milkers and cattlemen and warlords are helped. I ask the Minister of Agriculture to respond as quickly as possible to help agriculture within a month, as field work begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23623	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23624	Dear fellow MPs, I first have a question for Mr Antic's energy minister and for Mr Vujovic's finance minister. It's about the topic that upset the local public, which is the collection of electricity. Due to the various disinformations that appear in the public, which are related to electricity collection since 1 April, the first question for the Minister of Energy - will all social categories that currently have discounts for paying electricity have these discounts after 1 April? Because, of course, so-called. "independent media" are spreading various information, it is very important that citizens of Serbia know whether protected categories will have a price protected after 1 April. It's a question for the finance minister. The finance minister is talking about electricity excises these days and announced that we will pay 0.5 dinars per kilowatt hour for one kilowatt of electricity spent. The question for the finance minister is whether to introduce the so-called A degree-of-the-mill excise? This means that for those households, which are over a million in Serbia, which spends up to 300 kilowatt hours, which are mostly in rural, or rural, areas of Serbia, and last year have been major disasters and we see how this year has started, means a very difficult economic situation, whether we can consider having lower excise duties for them, for example. Of 0.2 dinars, and then for those who are larger consumers we have, let's say, a bigger excise, and then let the medium excise be 0.5 dinars? This is a very important issue, although in Europe we have a reverse situation, that those people who are bigger consumers, they have less excise duty, but Serbia is in such an economic situation. We may be able to stimulate more consumption in two or three years or more, but at this point, the Serbian government and these two resolution ministries should first and foremost consider protecting those people who are the most vulnerable, and I say, these are families living mostly in rural areas and families that spend up to 300 kilowatt hours. When I mentioned earlier the Minister of Energy, I think it is worth the attention that the Ministry assesses whether there is a possibility for families receiving any form of social assistance to write off previous debts for electricity before the entry into force of this new collection on 1 April. My next question concerns the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Trade. The lady who asked the parliamentary question before me had already touched those issues a little bit, but I would like to mention them again, and at this point, I think, on the most important topic, which is the milk market in Serbia. The question for the Minister of Agriculture is – what seems to be at this point that the peasants who, here in Šumadia, come from the Forest, from Topola, we had in the previous days literally per village spilling milk because the milkers suddenly stopped buying milk from peasants and, unfortunately, we have a situation that, without a word of explanation, without any cancellation, the milkers are withdrawing. The explanations are different – that large quantities of milk come from the European Union, that the Russian market has stopped by falling laundry, that milkers bought larger quantities of milk and now they have stopped and, unfortunately, this price is paid by farmers who can no longer deliver milk for any price. That is why my question for the Minister of Agriculture and for the Minister of Trade Mr Ljajic – what will the state do, within what time, to improve the situation on the milk market in Serbia? We are particularly concerned with the announcement that in mid-2015, in the middle of this year, quotas for restrictions on milk production will be abolished in the European Union, and we are afraid that only in the second half of 2015 will there be a huge spill of milk from the European Union, from neighbouring countries that are neighbouring Serbia, on the territory of Serbia, and that only then will our peasants, if the government does not have a clear policy, come to the risk that they will absolutely no longer have anyone to hand over their milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23625	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23626	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki said after a visit to Bujanovac and talks with representatives of this area that there is a willingness in these multiethnic environments to continue the suspended talks on seven defined topics from 2013, between local authorities and minority representatives and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Knowing earlier statements by the government's representative, this latest statement by the Deputy Prime Minister has made it very clear to the international community that the legitimate representatives of Albanians have interrupted earlier talks with the government on solving life problems in this area and that they are now showing interest in continuing these talks. It is obvious that the current Deputy Prime Minister who was not a member of the previous government is not well aware of this very serious subject from 2013 when the then prime minister, in a meeting with the Albanian delegation in October, promised to meet with them every three months to discuss the results of an emergency resolution programme in the area of Presevo municipality, Bujanovac, Medvedja, which was previously accepted by the government at its session of 4 June that year. At the end of the same month, then, the health minister in Presevo discussed with Albanian representatives, of course, then on the topic at issue, improving health and social protection. However, so far none of the agreed points have been reached, so it has not yet worked out a maternity home that was even officially promoted a year ago, which is not a newspaper, because a section of the highway between Presevo and Bujanovac was officially opened four years before it worked. In early November of the same year, a failed conversation was also held with the then State Secretary of Justice and failed to avoid the abolition of a judicial unit in Presevo, which was previously reduced by the former Municipal Court of Presevo. Also, it failed to avoid the full abolition of the basic prosecutors in Presevo and Bujanovac. When this is added to the fact that neither the current prime minister nor the current prime minister no longer invited Albanian representatives to the talks, it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia was not interested in continuing the talks. So, I ask the question -- what are the arguments that government representatives accuse Albanians of interrupting the talks? In fact, if the government hadn't been ready for these talks by now, it is quite clear from the statement made by the Deputy Prime Minister after the meeting of the OSCE ambassador, which argues that in order to solve life problems raised in the said programme, it is necessary to solve the problem with the number of Albanians in these municipalities first. In this difficult situation and so far an unprecedented situation, that resolving the very serious and extremely sensitive existential problems of the Albanian population in Serbia should wait for the number of Albanians in these municipalities, I must ask the government the next question. If solving the problems raised in the context of seven themes of the programme made up of Albanian representatives is now conditioned by identifying the exact number of Albanians, why is this condition not indicated in time, just on June 4th when the government adopted this programme? Why only after two years does this conditioning appear? How relevant is the need to know the exact number of Albanians to address the next life problems that are very often purely existential? For example, what is important is the number of Albanians to resolve the nostration of diplomas from Kosovo's university and a number of other existential problems waiting to be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23627	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23628	Thank you. The first question is referred to Minister Verbić and concerns the explanations and requests for an explanation and reasons to deny funding to the domestic portal “SCIndex” which is the basis for the search of professional works and which is widely used in the scientific and academic community in the processing, search and work with scientific works. Namely, users of this portal have been informed practically by those who keep the portal from funding the “SCIndex” portal and that already once a good part of the database of scientific works cannot be accessed. I believe that with Cobson, therefore, with portals that otherwise have a register of scientific papers is one of the basic tools for the scientific community and I see no logical reason that if it was a decision by the minister to deny funding, why would he do so, why would we deny such a portal to the scientific scene in the 21st century and not just the scientific research scene in Serbia? If it's a deal with those who organize and work on a base, why wasn't there any cultural intelligence to the users what would happen to the database. In any case, it is inadmissible and I expect Minister Verbic to answer me in detail, not only about the reasons for the termination of the financing "SCIndex", but also if it is possible for motives to do so. The second question, I am transferring information sent to all parliamentary groups by a group of workers of Agroziv AD on strike. In fact, about 500 of them want to receive support from MPs to resolve the status in which they have been without pay for ten months, five months without health insurance, are being held as workers of Agroziv, but cannot exercise the right to material and health insurance at the National Employment Service. First of all, the Minister of Business, but since this is also the problem that started in 2008 by going bankrupt, then by the government's decision to hand over Agroziva to the public company "Srbigas", then by the appearance of the company "BG Mibras" which took over "Agroziv". So it assumes the role of several ministries other than Mr Sertic, but I have no doubt that he will be able to build a group of people who will know and want people who go from meeting to meeting for years to strike in the Municipality of Zitiste building and cannot come up with a final solution on their status when it comes to everything that happened to them in breach of labour rights during 2014. The "Independence" union has had countless requests and requests for meetings in the government to find solutions for Agroziva workers and has sent a request for a peaceful settlement of the peace dispute between Agroziv workers and the owner of Agroziv, but there is no feedback. This is why these people address us as MPs, because we are a place that should be advocating the achievement of their guaranteed rights. Whatever solution it may be, the dispute is taking too long and everything they see from the authorities does not indicate that they have any hope other than to give this information to the public, to put pressure on the minister and to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23629	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23630	First, I would ask you to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to give us an answer to the questions we have asked him so far in the previous period. Let me repeat, perhaps the post office doesn't work between the National Assembly and the Serbian Government, so here. I asked about two months ago what happened to the promise of building cheap apartments? Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic pledged on 9 May 2014 that the apartment's square would cost 387 euros and said the cranes would be all over the country and that a special package of measures was envisaged, as the prime minister estimated, the area in which we have the most problems. I, the Honorable Presidents and People's MPs, see no cranes across Serbia, and I haven't seen a single crane. Once again, I ask you to ask Mr. Vukic when young couples will be able to buy these 387-euro apartments without apartments. The apartments were due to be completed by 2015, and it would be a good time to move forward with the construction. The second question, already asked, is that Mercedes production is under way in Serbia. It was supposed to be a bigger series of Mercedes products coming out of the tape. Serbia was supposed to be one of the countries where Mercedes is produced. I don't see the tape coming down the Mercedes, so please, Mrs. Gojkovic help me get an answer from Mr. Vukic on how much Mercedes production is going on in Serbia, how many people are employed on these tapes, how many people are employed in the area that supplies this Mercedes production in Serbia? The next question I've already asked, and I haven't received an answer, what happens to asking ambassadors in the most important countries of the world like Germany and some other countries. I asked Mr. Wolf and Mr. Dacic that question. What's my question today is whether I don't know what the new members of the government are doing, or what they're doing, or Tony Blair's team. So my question to the Prime Minister would be, what status does Tony Blair have in the government, does he have his own man in government as a member of the government, Deputy Prime Minister in the form of advisors, because we understand that one of the representatives of Blair's company is working in our government and overseeing the work of the government, so please, whoever pays them, will we almost get that man's name in the Assembly and might be elected as minister of co-operation with Blair's company? In this regard, it has something to do with Blair, but please let me get an answer to the question, when will the construction of the Iron Bridge be continued in 1999, while Blair was president, or head of the UK government, or England? The question, when will it be and will it even be started to rebuild the tv, a building that was destroyed in 1999? You, Madam President, do you know that RTV has not had its own building since then, so please, will the Republic of Serbia perhaps, and Mr Blair's company help rebuild the construction of a RTV building that works in inhumane conditions, have neither a building nor an adequate technique, and do I think we should get an answer these days from the government, and will it be restored to a building called the NATO bombing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23631	Thank you. The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I will not beat as a "Maxim per Division" with 65 questions that mean little or almost nothing to the citizens of Serbia, but I will ask two concrete questions. First, for the MUP, I think it is necessary and I ask the minister whether the MUP is going to investigate, because I think it is necessary to examine the media allegations that Miroslav Miskovic came to own 1.1 or one hectare, or 1.1 hectare of exclusive land in New Belgrade and we all know where it is, next to the Hotel Hayat, where the company's administrative building "Delta Holding" is today. Miskovic came to the plot after he committed to "General Export" which owned the sale of 10 million dinars or then 150,000 euros, which is 36 times less than the market price of the plot today. About the state was damaged by these media allegations for more than five million euros, and everything happened in 2002 when Mr. Miskovic was a co-investor with Genex at the time in building 50,000-square-square-square-squared buildings on their plot, then a co-user of land, the owner of the building and ultimately, was said to have also become owner of the facility in 2002 on the basis of a contract to regulate property and financial relations between Genesis and Delta, which states that the company will pay nine million dinars or today's 150,000 euros. I don't remember any of our citizens being so privileged either in 2002 or in 2012, especially in 2015, buying property at a value of 36 times smaller than the estimated or actual value of that property, so I believe that the MUP must check this out. Also, in order to no longer have stories about various banks, about the Vojvodine Development Bank, I think it is high time that both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior gave us an answer, as far as it came with investigations of work, nerada, the monopoly position of the Vojvodine Development Bank, whatever we call it through a concrete proposal, I will ask one specific question, first of all, to the Ministry of Finance. Namely, since the situation now is such that the Ministry of Finance has insight, what kind of credit did the DS in 2012, at the time of the elections for its needs from Vojvodina Development Bank, has it returned it so far, under what conditions did the loan raise and what protection did Vojvodina Development Bank take for the loan, what kind of security she had, what kind of mortgage, guarantee, what kind of guarantee did she have, and did she even have any guarantee? According to my information, she had no guarantee, and the loan has not been returned yet, but in order for the Serbian citizens to know if it is true, as many questions are being asked today, and here we have heard the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think it is finally time to clear up and that the citizens of Serbia are expecting it, what has been done and how has the state been led in the previous period? Until we resolve this, it is hard for us to be, with all the praises we have heard here today in the solemn session of the Council of Europe, directed to Serbia, all the praises are fine, Serbia is really on the right track, going to the EU, in one real way, unlike earlier times, but if we want to clear up with crime and corruption, we have to solve these cases in the country. We can't talk anymore and listen here to demand the freezing of interest, interest rates, to ask that in our banking system we work as if we were living in North Korea or Cuba, because there's no such thing and it's not something that exists in the EU and it can't be in Serbia either, but it's enough to listen to the demagogy of those who did these things by 2012, and even a little later, until there's been some knowledge from the state, what was it doing for example, Vojvodina Development Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23633	We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you today to attend: Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljević-Bosković, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Stana Bozovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Zoran Ibrović, Head of the Department for Harmonization of the Regulations in the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Nada Lukačević, Head of the Department for Integrated Prevention and Control of Environment Prevention and Control at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Sonja Roglic, Head of the Department of Chemicals at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Gordana Petković, Head of Department of the Department of Agriculture and Environment; Dragan Bosiljčić, Head of Department of the Department of the Department of Agriculture and Protection of the Environment and Protection of the Environment and the Centre of Agriculture, Centre for Agriculture and the Centre for Agriculture and the Environment of Agriculture, the Centre of Agriculture and Agriculture. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received the Report of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the opinion of the Government on the amendments submitted. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Ivan Karic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23634	I thank the Presidents of the Assembly, although I would like to give my word to the Greens, since somehow the subject is very much addressed to them. This is something concerning, of course, all Serbian citizens and we have proposed a few amendments that have been adopted, which in several repair the proposed amendments and additions to the Chemical Act and in this case an amendment that has been adopted to Article 8 of the manufacturer, the importer and the further user pays a fee for placing substances on the market that cause concern. So this is somewhere in line with the applicable unique methodological rules for making regulations, and we think it's very important that this amendment has been adopted and I thank the minister and, of course, the team of people who participated in the debate with us here in principle. What was very controversial for us, we said in the principle debate, of course, for that reason and the best possible intentions of DS has proposed a series of amendments with which we want to fix these proposed changes and additions. What is also important is that the whole law is in principle not so much in line with the regulations and regulations of the EU that we talked about in the basic debate and I think we will succeed in a few to convince you that, even in the case of the agency and many other things we have proposed to our amendments, we convince Ms. Minister and you as your team and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that these amendments are indeed adopted, because we think that they are primarily in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23635	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23636	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a difference in the government's report in one part, or perhaps the Committee's report is something different than the Government's report. My colleague spoke, if I understood correctly, of the amendment as if it had been accepted, so I didn't have a report from the Committee, and I was prevented from being on the Committee. Article 1 above all we had a desire to introduce certain definitions which are in line with the regulations in particular with Regulation 1907/2006 on registration, evaluation, authorisation of chemicals which are in accordance with RIČ regulations and in particular in the part relating to prohibitions and restrictions. In a further discussion of the amendments, we will, of course, be able to discuss some other details, so that there will be time for everything, but let us say, before we finish this amendment 1 remains what the impression is from both the principle debate and through these amendments that unfortunately the principle of "polluter pays" is well deregified, that the precautionary principle is also out of force in some parts of the amendments to this law. Perhaps the whole Chemical Act should have been re-worked and then done something that is in line with the European directives. Maybe there wasn't enough time or enough space for the law that's been amended, to say patching up now these changes, but maybe a whole new law should have been done, and she's talking about fees, and I also have the time of the authorised representative, to say about the Chemical Act in all these members, we stick to the fee as the original incomes that aren't budget revenues, but the revenues that are strictly defined and spent and not the burden of citizens. In the subsequent amendments, I apologize for this part, so the differences between the Government's report, where, of course, by definition, the amendments to the opposition are being rejected. It seemed a little different on the board, so we'll discuss it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23637	Thank you. The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23638	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say that if we are already bringing these amendments here, I am first pleased that this amendment has been adopted, but if we are already adopting these amendments and if we are passing laws we should and should be respected, if the proposer of this amendment, I hope it is pleased, that the government has accepted the amendment and I am pleased because of my colleagues from "Green Serbia". However, you must see what happens to environmental taxes that are strictly dedicated to local self-government, and I have a particular problem in Zajecar that 92 million former Mayor Bosko Nicic has written off in time, to certain factories in Zaječar ecological tax, and I hope you get to know that, we have sent as municipal and local self-government, in order to provide women's handball club with 40 million dinars. So, he compensated the income of the city budget which must be strictly spent on containers, for the awareness of citizens to develop on ecology, etc., he spent on handball, i.e. He made a decision of his own free will without the Ministry's approval and nobody's taking care of it. These are things we need to look at and we need to know in the next period of time that even colleagues from the DS are already supporting such people who are taking from the city budget to satisfy the handball, i.e. Some youth dreams to finance a handball must know that amendments if they propose and if amendments are adopted by the Government and the Committee, etc. And this congregation and this home, they need to know that we have to and respect it. I ask Mr Bozovic to remind his coalition partner that he should not have spent an ecological fee for handball purposes, and I ask you as Minister to look into what this is about, and if you can, I refer this to you as a single parliamentary question to let me know what the Ministry has done about spending an environmental tax of 92 million, where the city has been denied 92 million revenue, which is directed to a handball club of various factories, you have in the files that are these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23639	Thank you. The word is Ivan Karic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23640	I'm not using Parliament time, I'm using it as an authorised representative. I thank my esteemed colleague Mirkovic. Just what we talked about for three years, unfortunately for a time, the political leader of the mentioned gentleman from Zaječar, not Mr Mirkovic, was part of the coalition and abolished the Chemical Agency, abolished the Environmental Protection Fund three years ago, and for exactly three years now, Green Serbia has been talking about compensations having to go to the fund, that the fund must exist, that only funds can be spent to protect the environment. There's a lot of local self-government to waste money on purposelessly. Perhaps we should link the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, the future, which we will do, hopefully, with the Environmental Protection Fund, which you said you would do, and just carry out that money control, because it's really necessary. Manipulations are taking place, and it is therefore important that the means of purpose be strictly marked, as green money. As "Green Serbia" we asked the DRI for 2012-2013 to review the money flows from pollution fees and to review the way they were spent, both for local self-government and for the competent ministry, since we believe that the means of use should not be used for other purposes, and at least they should be used as taxes and as revenue of the budget, and then go for general purposes and not for environmental protection. It happens to us that our annual budget of the ministry is less or more at the level of pollution fees and the other eight fees, which is inadmissible. The state must separate some of the money for the ministry, and the fund must be charged with fees for pollution fees. It's a good thing you're getting the fund back. We will continue to talk about the special ministry and hope that very quickly and especially the ministry will begin to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23641	According to the amendment, MP Sasa Mirkovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23642	I just wanted to add, since I forgot, and I can see that Mrs. Bozovic is here, so my thought flew away. A colleague from "Green Serbia" is right. So, yes, it was abolished by Mladjan Dinkic in some past tense. I hope that today's DS colleagues don't support this, and since this amendment has been submitted, that means they don't support this kind of robbery of local budgets, as it was specifically in the Zajecar case. I ask Mrs Bozovic, as secretary of state, to really examine it. The town of Zaječar has remained for 92m revenues, which went to a women's handball club, where toys from seven to 30,000 euros per month were paid. So someone financed the handball club, and all the money in the green. It's simply incomprehensible, but it is. So I ask you to pay attention to that and give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23643	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic, by amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23644	I'd use time for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23645	You cannot replicate because Jovan Markovic has not been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23646	It is the Democratic Party and I am authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23647	You can't speak for the MP's party. Where's your head of Parliament, deputy?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23648	But I'm authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23649	You are authorized, but you can't replicate because you didn't ask for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23650	And how else am I supposed to answer that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23651	To say on what basis you're answering, for example. It's been ten months, and we've all studied the Rules of Procedure, I hope. On what grounds do you want the word, so I know how to run the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23652	Based on my authority for this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23653	So you're looking for a replica. That's a big difference. Here you go, replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23654	I think it is very important and necessary, Madam President, that all MPs start immediately at this debate in the right direction and that we focus all the possible accusations that we can hear today in this assembly, which at the beginning of this debate, at least in this direction that the competent institutions are doing their job. Anyway, we have a lot of amendments that we've made here. These amendments have just gone in this direction to make our contribution to this debate in a quality way. The accusations we hear here today in the sense that some mayor, in some town, has separated money from eco-tasks into sports are really flat-rate and they're the subject of an investigation or the subject of some other shops and they can't be brought up here. I would ask Mr. Mirkovic – on what basis does he today claim that the money that entered the budget is exactly the dedicated money that is separated in this handball club in some other way? I don't think that's supposed to be part of today's debate, but we're dealing with amendments and I'm asking you to point this debate in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23655	I appreciate the suggestion, but you've just directed the discussion in a different direction. I now have to give MP Mirkovic a two-minute chance to answer your specific question. You shouldn't have asked a question if you didn't want an answer. I ask all MPs to return to the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23656	When I debated for a little while, I talked about how glad I was that the government and the committee in charge adopted this amendment, i.e. Your amendment. What I said, I said as President of the Assembly, on the basis of the conclusions of the Working Group of the City of Zaječar Assembly and file criminal charges from the city of Zaječar towards former Mayor Zaječar Bosko Nicic, who is 92 million instead of an environmental tax, do not defend it, because no one can defend it, I have insight into all the papers and, if you will, I will copy them and I will deliver them to you, directed them in another direction. I asked the ministry for an answer, not you, from Mrs Bozovic and Ms. Minister, to tell me what they did about it. In fact, 92 million is a lot of money for a city like Zajecar. Instead of that 92 million going into containers, cleaning up the flood canal, it went to a handball club. So, I am not polluting the discussion in any direction except in the direction of the amendments and I support this amendment submitted by my colleague from the Greens and by the gentleman from your parliamentary group. The amendment was adopted. I'm just saying that we should all respect the law and the amendments and the laws that we bring here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23657	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23658	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join my colleague Mirkovic to make everything transparent about this law and this amendment. But I'm against being limited to Zajechhar. Why not talk about imports of 140 tonnes of batteries and 1.1 billion dinars as much as Dulic spent on imports of used batteries? It seems to me there were 13 tons of secondhand tires. I'm also against only asking what happened in Zajecar, because other than handballs are supported by environmental and tennis funds. So to check how 500 000 euros went for the tennis tournament? If we're going to question it, we're going to question everything. Further, let's examine how money was spent by the Tent, let's say, in Obrenovac, how much was the fund to protect the environment in Obrenovac, how much was it, who was the director, who was the deputy and how was the funds spent, and is it true that they were mostly spent to maintain six oaks? I think that a lot has been abused in the past, not only in Zajecar but throughout Serbia, and I would like someone to explain to me how this is done on the waterway in India by recycling used batteries, who gave such permission at the Regional Secretariat, in what way, under what conditions and was it part of their vision or commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23659	Mr. Markovic picked up the phone. You have the right to speak according to the amendment, because no one has mentioned the party, no one individually. Cities aren't owned by any political party. So you want to talk about the amendment, not the replication? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23660	Madam Chairman, I think it would be good for the ruling regime MPs and the ruling coalition and citizens of Serbia, before we continue the story of the amendments, to get an answer to the question whether or not this amendment has been adopted, as the amendment has been said here all along. It would be good if at least they could get so involved in the debate and say whether he was adopted or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23661	Here, I'll let you know. You all have a report ahead of you. There's no need for me to have an extra role as someone who convinces the report. It's not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23662	But all the time they're saying it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23663	Now I'm not the censor here to tell the MPs you're telling them it is, you're saying it isn't. Everyone has a report and knows what it says. Say what you think is necessary under the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The Environment Committee has accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The Minister is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23664	We accept Mr. Karic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23665	So the minister has accepted this amendment. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23666	Thank you. The desire in all amendments was, regardless of how we disagree with the proposed amendments and what we believe should be done by a new law on chemicals and brought into line with EU directives, the desire was to fix the text of the amended bill in some parts of which we could say. This amendment, in accordance with Article 33 of the PIC Regulation, which is the highest EU regulation in the field of chemicals and chemical management, provides for the publication of a list of candidates for the list of substances that cause particular concern, with a view to providing clear information to consumers and businesses, which is subject to the substance. This is particularly interesting because citizens use more than 100,000 toxic, carcinogenic, mutagen and other harmful and very dangerous chemicals daily and therefore requires rigorous control, due to chemicals in different products, which are related to modern age diseases. So in relation to chemicals, based on scientific research, cancer and leukemia and sterility and diabetes and obesity and autism and allergies and mental deformation in children and immune disorders, as well as breast cancer and testicular cancer. It's very important to keep this in mind because when we manage chemicals, there can be very bad consequences, as we can see. I thank you for the amendment that has been adopted and so far, and when we agree and disagree, we have proposals, so we discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23667	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23668	Thank you, Chairman. I also thank the minister who accepted this amendment. I think it's very important that we continue our co-operation and discussion this way. I thank you once again in the debate in principle for making it possible for us to do so. How glad we are that this amendment has been adopted and that it has become an integral part of the law, we are not glad that the Agency has not finally returned and that we have not had the opportunity to mark one of the EU's agencies, as you know, as one of the five most successful in Serbia, to fight for all these young people who were employed there as young, professional personnel that Serbia has produced in a completely new and modern way. I think it's a big deal for Serbia that we haven't been able to appreciate in this case. We are fully aware that you are as Minister, and we have talked about this, inherited the disastrous state from 2012 to 2014 and that in those two years we have brought Serbia back 50 years when this topic is concerned. I think it was very important to gather in this regard the strength and courage to return to the Agency, so that in a comprehensive way in the matter of chemicals, biocidal products, today we can talk completely differently, and Serbia would certainly be one of the leaders in the region instead of starting today. Fifty years behind Croatia, we have been in this topic behind developed EU countries for over 100 years. I think it's something we had to respect as a country and recognize as something important. By 2012, all European Commission reports were positive, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 will certainly be negative. I would really like to put together with the MPs any opposition, any position, together you work in this area to return Serbia to the place it belongs to, which is to be a leader at least in the region, if not one example in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23669	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23670	Thank you. This is another example of the positive practice that is being imposed here. After Article 60, Article 60a, which reads, the exporter shall pay a fee for the assessment of the data provided for the implementation of the prior notification procedure. The amendment complies with the applicable uniform methodological rules for the making of rules, and this is another contribution by the DS to making these amendments better and supplementing the law. I think it's also one of the most important things. It is very important that we do not differ about the essence and that we together point to Serbia in that direction that the EU recognised as good those years when we had positive reports. I think you as a minister must do a lot more than we do. We will always support you when conditions are obtained and as you said, when you give maximum in the given circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23671	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac since the time of the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23672	Dear President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Branka Karavidic agreed with us on an amendment to Article 13 and predicted that article 13 should be deleted. In fact, members of the 13th are subject to tax. It says – the amount of the fee, the payment obligation, as well as the way in which the fees referred to in Article 30(5), Article 48, Article 61, Article 67, Article 7 of Article 68(5), and not to read, are all new members, who provide for the introduction of the taxi, and Article 76 of Article 2 of this Act, determines the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Environmental Protection; the income from the fees prescribed by this law belongs to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Government rejected this amendment with reasons – the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is Article 17. The law on the budgetary system stipulates that fees can only be introduced by a law which can be prescribed and their height or can be given by that law to a specific entity to determine their height. The fee shall be charged for a directly provided public service, i.e. a public procedure or action it has provided, or carried out by a competent entity. According to the law, the jobs for which the tax is introduced fall under the most complex procedures to ensure the minimalisation of harmful effects of chemicals on human health and the environment, so that there is no economic justification for the financing of these procedures to fall on the burden of citizens, but on the burden of economic operators making profit by producing, i.e. by placing chemical products on the market. The Republic's administrative fees shall be prescribed by the Special Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. In this explanation, there was a replacement of thesis. This amendment was not about transferring fees to citizens, but about remaining the same entities, taxpayers. The objective of the amendment was not to prescribe these taxes from the Government, but to be prescribed by the Law on Administrative Taxes adopted by this Assembly, because if the Assembly prescribes fees, it gives the persons who pay some legal certainty and the procedure for the adoption of taxis is more public and is published in the “Official Messenger” and the entities who are obliged to pay indeed a greater opportunity to get to know each other in time and to meet that obligation to pay taxis. So what's said in the explanation isn't adequate to what we wanted to achieve with the amendment. We don't want to transfer it to the citizens. We just wanted those taxis to be prescribed in the jurisdiction of the Assembly by the Law on Administrative Taxes, as well as other fees prescribed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23673	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23674	Dear Presidents, respected minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, unlike my parliamentary group, I say that Green Serbia continues to insist that the words "the budget of the Republic of Serbia" can be added to the words "or to the public agency", since we believe that chemical management is only right and in the best way possible through public agencies and that the revenues from the taxis belong to the budget of the Republic of Serbia or to the public agency, if the need for this is indicated in order to effectively implement the law. In addition to the effective implementation of the law, the Chemical Agency has passed 45 sublegal regulations on over four thousand sides and that almost all relevant EU rules have been transposed. It is also very interesting that two thousand applications and approvals were submitted for the entry of chemicals into the Chemical Register. For issuing licences for the performance of traffic operations around 30 and for the PIS procedure around 40. On the other hand, it says in the explanation that since the last amendments to the law, a large number of procedures have not been initiated. 1,676 items for the entry of chemicals into the Register of Chemicals have been started, 11 requests for authorisations for the performance of traffic, especially dangerous chemicals, and 14 requirements for the PIS procedure. This is one quarter and it speaks of a halt in chemical management since the suspension of the Chemicals Agency, and it is said that a public agency can be established if development, professional and regulatory affairs do not require permanent and direct political supervision, although the public agency can do them better and more effectively than the authorities of the state administration, especially if they can finance in general or mainly the scenes paid by service users. We here have, more than, to say, obviously, that by abolishing a public agency, we want to carry out some political surveillance and in this way, perhaps from an area of independent decision-making, we have political oversight or possibly political interference in making decisions that are allowed by chemicals, which are not, which of course may have implications for environmental management in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23675	The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23676	Honored President, Honorary Minister, Honored fellow Members and colleagues, in Article 86. We have proposed to oversee the application of this law and the rules adopted under it by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and through environmental inspectors. Of course, we suggest that the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection be defined differently in the exercise of control over the application of the Chemical Act. Sanitary inspection has jurisdiction, tradition and experience in the exercise of supervision of the application of the Health Law of General Use, which implies a conceptually different set system of supervision and of the affairs involved in the inspection. On the other hand, the sanitary inspection does not have sufficient capacity and the necessary knowledge to monitor all provisions of the Chemical Act, and what can be concluded from the data that have been discussed so far. Thus, the amendmentor of the Law had the intensities to narrow down the area for which the sanitary inspection is responsible, but it did so, in an inadequate way, by adding the definition, in accordance with Article 1, which could disrupt the full implementation of the Law proposal, which makes the concept of the subject of the general application incorrectly and contrary to the relevant EU regulation, because such a definition narrows the concept of the subject of general application, not just a few categories, and does not apply to the same concepts given in a regulation that prescribes prohibitions and restrictions. So we have those famous tire bracelets that we talked about, and this affair that the sanitary inspection said that she checked all the tires, but anyone who knows the least about chemicals knows that phthalates, which are banned chemicals, can't be found in rubbers, but can only be found in PVC plastic. The statement of the sanitary inspection shows how unprofessional they were to carry out chemicals, which does not mean that the sanitary inspection is not an expert in what is in the work of its operation. We here, as Greens, are fighting for the right to say that an environmental inspector and an expert who is known in the field of chemicals is leading an inspection in these areas. In addition, this statement by the health inspector says that she checked all the tires, which tells us that nothing has been checked, nor does this sanitary inspector know what he's talking about, nor should he have been inspecting the chemical management area. Furthermore, this amendment, I would say, would respect the intensities of the legislator to restrict jurisdiction only to the supervision of the application of prohibitions and restrictions of the prescribed Chemical Act, but that supervision would only be given for the transposed general application of the Health Law of General Use. We think that the proposed solution in this amendment should avoid all these shortcomings, because, according to us, it should be a competent environmental inspection. In this way, it would facilitate the communication of the economy with the competent state authorities, when there is no chemical agency, and inspection supervision would be more efficient and economical, i.e. less budget resources would be spent. On the other hand, what we support, and in this proposal could be seen, is the impact and importance of market inspection which, in our opinion, has a great deal of experience in controlling the placing of different products on the market, and in particular we believe that market inspection has built knowledge and capacity in which the fastest and least consequences are withdrawn from the market. Also, market inspection has proved to be the most effective inspection in the control of the application of the prohibitions and restrictions prescribed by the Chemical Act. So, in this part, we believe that the sanitary inspection cannot do well enough to carry out what would be an environmental inspection, and of course that including market inspection and all that you said in the day of the principle debate is positive. So we believe that this amendment, and we expect you to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23677	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, a group of young people from the Municipality of Savski Venac, who attend the seminar "To raise the political capacities of young people from the Municipality of Savski Venac", who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery, and please welcome our guests with applause. The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23678	Thank you, Chairman. You know, when it comes to one of these complex issues, it also requires much more serious attitudes and much more serious debate. If we were to step by step of the sanitary inspection, we would be in a very bad situation. I think the previous speaker may have mixed things up a little bit. Sanitary inspection shall have competences relating to the health control of the subject of general application. In general, certain items that are controlled are also used. When we control certain objects, there are legal provisions on parameters that are controlled. This during the sanitary inspection did not control chemicals but controlled the subject of general use on certain parameters. Certain laboratories that have been accredited for these tests, and the sanitary inspector makes a proposal for a measure based on the lab's findings. Therefore, when it comes to such complex things, we have to keep in mind what we say, because the sanitary inspection of the jurisdiction is so deprived, so limited in the domain, meaning, testing and health care of food, and the health security of foods, that we can expect to increase some alimony intoxications, because many foods are precisely due to overlapping jurisdiction, transfering jurisdiction to other inspections, which they have lobbyed in the previous period, and now they realize that they cannot achieve control on the ground. We have a situation where dairy products are very rarely controlled, that many other products of plant origin are very rarely controlled, and when due to overlapping competences in one catering facility enters the same day of sanitary inspection, which controls your wipes from the subject, you get a market inspection that controls your business, a tourist inspection that controls your parameters, a veterinary control that controls your food of animal origin, a farm that controls your food of plant origin, and only for one simple reason why in the Food Safety Act in Article 12, when adopted in the previous period, that law has been erased by the jurisdiction that the sanitary inspection should control the catering facilities, or foods in the catering facilities. Therefore, I would ask my distinguished colleagues to keep an eye on them, when they propose that we deny jurisdiction to certain inspections, and we will ask the upcoming law, means inspection control that we really try not to burden our businessmen with excessive inspection and unnecessary controls and overlaps, but rather to be reasonable controls and to have effects for the well-being and employers and for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23679	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23680	The Honorable President, Your Honor, this is about the Chemical Law, not the Law on the Depriving of the Right of Sanitary Inspection. I'm not talking about shortening the right sanitary inspection, you probably haven't even read the proposal for a chemical law, which our government has proposed, and I don't know how you interpret it, what I was talking about. I was talking about needless overauthorization of the sanitary inspection in relation to the Chemical Act, and I've done it a few times in a very decade. Probably your colleagues who touched you didn't read the proposal of the Chemical Act because I wasn't talking about what you interpreted. As regards the Law on Health Rightness of General Use, hence, and the effectiveness of the work in this area, Greens emphasises that legal implementing rules have not yet been passed, although the law was passed since 2011. In that part of which you were talking about, I agree, but I didn't talk at all about the need to deny the authority of the sanitary inspection, but that they should be given authority in the field of chemical management, in which they obviously don't understand well enough. There are shortcomings in this Health Law that you have already mentioned, which are seen in that the law has not sufficiently transposed European regulations, EU regulations, and this assessment is not mine, but has been taken over from the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal flows since July 2014, Chapter 3.1.2.4, which also points to inadequate regulation of this area, I am talking about the health regularity of foods. All of this can also affect the implementation of the Chemical Act, and only in this segment were we talking about the sanitary inspection. The proposed amendment of Article 86 which empowers sanitary inspectors to use the case in general, and defined under the Health Law of General Use, and whether the conditions laid down in the Law on Health Rightness of the case have been met, verifying that the product complies with the prohibitions and restrictions laid down by the Chemical Act make that inspection control different. That is why we believe that only in this part, when we talk about the management of chemicals, is it not necessary to deny some jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection. When I said that in their work, they had extraordinary successes and no one disputed the sanitary inspection as such, but only her work in the framework of chemical and chemical management. The contested proposal that only a sanitary inspection should exercise control of the prohibition and restrictions on general use in the manner defined in the proposal for this law, "Green", considers that it would lead to problems in determining the jurisdiction of certain inspections, i.e. ineffectiveness, inefficient and non-systemic supervision. That's what I'd say. There may be a situation where individual products placed on the market by the same person for professional and general use, which are subject to the same restrictions, have two inspections in place, i.e. both inspections must enter the field and impose measures to remove that illegality. It is thus corrected that environmental inspection can carry out overall surveillance in these applications. It could also be necessary to impose measures by two different inspections, and to bring the same product into line with the different provisions of the Chemical Act, in particular classification provisions, marking the prohibition provisions. So, once again, in the work of a sanitary inspection, we have no objection. We just think that in this section of chemical management, environmental inspections should have a greater impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23681	The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23682	I read very carefully, and since I come from the profession, I just want to tell you, through the items of general use that you mention, there are both detergents and toothpastees and hair dyes. All those chemicals. So I was talking about a very complex issue and a very complex problem. I listened very carefully to what you said. So there's a rulebook for general use items. It's not the law. It's the rule. That's one thing I've been talking about, and another thing is the Food Safety Act. As far as he's concerned, he's completely overwritten, translated like the American Food Safety Act. So whether it's applicable to us or not, that's a different story. We'll probably discuss it in another debate. As for my careful reading, careful listening and careful interpretation, as someone who comes from the profession and who has been working with sanitary inspection for 20 years when the items are generalized, I would only ask you to separate those two things and try to create that synergy that we have on the ground in collaboration with sanitary and environmental inspections. You don't have to defend each other. The Public Health Institute is working with each other for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23683	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours because of the need to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible, or to declare them. The word was requested by Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23684	Thank you. Very short. I have analyzed the response received by the Government, or reference to accuracy in the division of competence in response. In a brief comparative analysis of what constitutes the proposed text of the law and what is proposed by the amendment, it is really not difficult to establish that there are serious differences on the subject of the division of competences, while in the basic text delivered by the Proposer there is a very clear record of what is meant as the jurisdiction of individual inspections. I assume that the amendment promoter is, above all, eager to extend the jurisdiction of the market inspection seems to have failed to make a clear distinction between certain responsibilities. If we look at the parts of the amendments relating to the jurisdiction of sanitary inspectors and market inspectors whom I suppose he wanted further to correct me on the importance and freely if I am wrong at all, the same set of competences over certain activities is used. So both in one case and in another, it's about the restriction and banning of production, marketing and use, by having chemicals in general in one case, and in other chemicals for general use. In order to make one very easy to become a subset of the other, I suppose that would mean that we have jurisdiction over both of these and other inspections, which is not the case in the case of the original text of the law, which is why it certainly seems more precise and clear to me, which would be a reason not to accept the amendment, if I'm right, certainly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23685	Thank you. Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23686	Thank you. In Article 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, which amends Article 88. The law adds a new position 3 in Article 88, which is to monitor the functioning and coordination of the work of the joint working body, the Ministry of Environmental Protection is responsible. In our explanation, we stated that to Article 15. The draft law provides that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Trade in Trade in Agreement shall educate the Joint Body to plan and take joint measures and training of competent inspections to carry out inspection inspections in accordance with the rules provided for by the State Administration. The practice so far has pointed to the effectiveness of the inter-resorship co-operation of these ministries, which we have cited and because of the lack of precise division of jurisdiction of inspections in the field of environmental protection, sanitary and market inspection. Article 14 The draft law has been carried out by detailing the jurisdiction of all these inspections, and Article 15 requires the establishment of a common body to coordinate and take measures and activities to be taken to implement the law. However, given the practice of working in inter-resor working bodies, we think it is useful to define the job carrier in advance, and to propose to the Ministry of Environmental Protection as a co-ordinator of the work of the joint working body by amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23687	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Borđe Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23688	The amendment has been accepted. Thank you for respecting our amendment. Because of the public I just want to say that eradicating the proposed amendment of points 12 and 13 is proposed, because we believe that the existing legal solution is more precise, and that it is said that paragraph 12 is to order certain dangerous chemicals to be placed on the market as a product intended for the general use of sales in accordance with the prescribed conditions and under the 13th ban on selling certain dangerous chemicals which are placed on the market as a product intended for the general use of the opposite conditions, so it is good that you have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23689	Thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is for Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23690	Citizens and citizens of Serbia, here is another example of the haughtiness of the current government that persistently violates both the Constitution and all the good customs that can exist in one country, and yet it is about deadlines. We have given the amendment to Article 22 concerning the period of validity of the law. This is Article 21, where we ask that sublegal acts, instead of writing and adopting sublegal acts, take three months to reduce that deadline to a month. It's a very strange explanation why this proposal of ours is being rejected. It says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that an adequate assessment of the eligibility of costs to establish a sustainable chemical management mechanism is necessary for the adoption of this regulation which regulates the level of taxis for the most complex administrative procedures in chemical management operations. I'm sure no one alive understood what it says here. It should be read four times, and if laws and sublegal acts are written in that methodology, it probably takes more than three months for them to adopt them. This law has our support except in this part. We think it's a good solution, that it's good for the ministry to take responsibility for the management and control of this area, but there's no reason for a solid bill to be broken by giving too much time to write sublegal acts. Sublegal acts are written parallel to the bill. Sublegal acts are sometimes part of law-writing construction and architecture, because you need to know what kind of sublegal acts will be when you write the law, not vice versa. I think there's only one reason here to refuse the amendments, because I'm sure the ministry has professional potential to write that in a month. The only reason the amendment comes from the opposition is because I don't think that's a good reason. It's not a good Serbian trait. Defiance is a good Serbian quality, and it is not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23691	Ambassador Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23692	It could be a replica, and it could be an amendment, but I'd like to do it by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23693	By amendment, because he didn't mention a political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23694	By amendment. I'm always personal to cut deadlines. Personally, I'm always that the state works faster and more operationally, but I'm not for the adoption of proposals and the reduction of deadlines at the expense of the quality of sublegal acts. When I think about sublaws, I mean not only the letter on paper, these proposals that will be written and adopted within the Ministry and within the Government, but also the infrastructure itself that is necessary and which is necessary to make and prepare for this law, but also that sublaw to be applied in the right way. What bothers me, however, is neither defiance nor spite, but untrue. It's untrue in this way that someone in the government violates the Constitution. I ask you: where does the Constitution say this, and where does the Constitution set a deadline for the execution of sublaws and for the creation of sublaws? It doesn't say. Nowhere in the Constitution is said to be a deadline for the adoption and adoption of sublegal acts for a month, two, three, six or ten days. It just doesn't say it. Therefore, in a debate that could have been conducted in a correct and civilized way, where we can talk about deadlines, but not at the expense of quality, we enter into a kind of political bickering, political hatred and carrying out the truth that someone broke the Constitution, which is a serious accusation, but when it is not founded in reality, when it is not founded in the truth, it is already very unserious because nowhere, I underline, the Constitution does not say that the deadline for carrying out sublegal acts is a month, two, three, six or ten days. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party insists, of course, on the speedier implementation and this law, on the rapid adoption of these legal acts, on the better regulation of this area, but, of course, where the speed will be brought into line with the quality of the acts themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23695	The word is Marian Risticevic, so I'll give you the word after the amendment because there were no direct references. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd even be willing to support this kind of amendment, because I'm also a fan of some shortened deadlines, but I don't think it's against the constitution for the sublaw to be passed within three months. As a former MP, I watched the Constitution break and refused to vote when the Constitution broke. For example, while my fellow farmer was prime minister, a law was proposed which was anti-constitutional, which was thus declared not to have the right to defend himself for two months. I attended both the decision and the law that was passed during that time that the prosecutors were elected by the government. So there was so much independence, there was so much constitutionality, that at that time a law was passed, which, of course, was later declared against the constitution, by which the ministers, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, elected prosecutors and thus they were in office, not citizens, but the political function of the government and the parties that made up the government. I don't mind that this deadline is shortened, but I think just because the law says that a sublegal act will be passed within three months, that it is quite enough, that it can mean that it will be delivered within a week, that it can be brought within a month and two months, but the government, or the Ministry of Environmental Protection, has received some reasonable three-month deadline. I advise them to speed up that deadline and, if possible, fit into the procedure within the last 30 days and, if necessary, a shorter deadline. In any case, I'm in favour of speed, but not to lose to quality, and I'm willing to even support this amendment, but I don't think the law is against the constitution, that it was against what I've already described, and that it's not exactly an indication that someone who has once violated the Constitution on the most important issues of civil society, that because of one provision that within three months, the rule will be laid down says it's anti-constitutional. In this regard, in 2009, as far as I know, the Food Safety Act was passed, and in 2012, when we arrived, the planning acts, i.e. the planning documents relating to food safety, which had not been adopted for three years. So, I would like someone to be a little bit self-critical in these amendments, given that the deadlines prescribed here are binding, and in some laws that were passed by 2012, there were no deadlines for the adoption of sublaws, but it was only general. So, if it's three months, that doesn't mean that the sublegal act isn't passed in a month. I'd be willing to support this amendment, but I'm afraid from some other technical conditions we don't limit the government, but I certainly recommend that they be worthy, up-to-date, spend time trying and sweating, doing what the previous government did, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23697	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23698	Obviously our amendment was good and apparently my discussion hit the right place, because this kind of response by renaissance knowledge and education commentators is a confirmation of that. Of course, by listening more carefully, by understanding the Serbian language, and also by being able to read, there can be many good conclusions. Let's say, in terms of understanding that I mentioned the Constitution when I spoke about amendments to Article 21 and Article 22. Article 22 is a direct violation of the Constitution, which is a reduction in the period of validity of the law from eight days to one day. It is written in the Constitution, and it would be good for MPs to make efforts in the context of their ability and ability to understand, read and analyze the knowledge that is in the source of the Constitution, which is important for the work of the MPs. It is obvious that the amendment and discussion are in the right place and because the minister is defending herself by silence. So it's absolutely without any comment on this bill of ours, unless this pile of words written through an explanation should be that comment that's unrepeated. I'm sure even a writer of these lines can't repeat this formulation. Of course, there are provisions in the Constitution that could prove that this is also a reduction of the deadline, or that short term, that it is also unconstitutional, but it is not my place to deal with the Constitutional Court's analysis. According to the Constitution, the rule of law is also mentioned. There are many things that define the Constitution, including the rule of law. There is no rational explanation that the law as a law that should reintroduce order in the field of chemicals, then I don't know how many years of disaster in that area, that with such a law, which is being prepared for a very long, serious time, and that we, I repeat, were ready to support, because in principle it's a solid law, that it doesn't work in parallel with that part of sublegal acts. There is no research to be carried out after the adoption of a law that is valid the next day of adoption, not eight days, as the Constitution says, so that it starts with a large study, an analysis, probably with foreign advisers from us far away, but friendly countries, with people who fill the headlines of the world newspaper, so that some "delivery team" or some special team from the government will find that, as it says here, the most complex administrative procedures on chemical management operations are needed to carry out an adequate assessment of the eligibility of costs, which will establish a sustainable chemical management mechanism. Expensive cost? Costs can't be justified and unwarranted. Actions necessary to obtain a document are necessary, and costs are a real consequence of working on these documents. There's no wording that someone's dealing with cost justification. Of course, it is clear which jobs are necessary and what actions are needed, their price is known and then the price of each product is formed, and even the fees that are, more widely, one type of product. That is why I remain with what is a clear impression, which is that this is being rejected only because it comes from the opposition and it is not unusual, it is not just an example in Serbia, but the worst examples of such species are in Serbia. Every reminder of some colleagues of what was once called to the Constitution and to call, directly or indirectly, to the action "Sabbe" fills me with satisfaction, because it is one police-judicial action that honors Serbia, Serbia's citizens, everyone who participated in this and my smallness, who had the privilege of practically leading this entire action that left the best results in the post-war Europe area, and not only in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23699	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23700	I didn't quite understand the argument, and especially the part about mentioning the expert gear. I don't hide, and I'm proud to say that I'm an expert in engineering, that I've acquired that title at the University of Belgrade Engineering, like thousands and thousands of people before me and after me. I'd like anyone who lags on that academic contrition to first qualify in a way that will tell himself what it is, how and what schools he's finished. It is unfortunate that the lack of arguments is immediately brought into the field of insult, because if an argument is used which is not related to this amendment, using arguments from someone else, then someone does not listen carefully to the debate, does not read the Rules of Procedure well enough, which says that the debate is only about the point on the agenda, or the amendment on the agenda. If someone is so easily obeying the Constitution and the provisions of the Constitution, then why am I forbidden to ask – and what provision of the Constitution is violated if the sublaws are passed in three months? What makes the government proud if it is defined in three months, because it believes that the three-month deadline is the point of merger during the time, speed and quality of sublegal acts and, most importantly, the creation of infrastructure that will provide both this sublegal act and the law to apply?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23701	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23702	Can't I speak by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23703	You speak by amendment. I'm sorry, 'cause I thought you got the word for it. Excuse me, Mr. Granny, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23704	I call upon myself, and I will end it, Mr. Becic, on the words of the promoter, which is that there is no basis for this amendment in the Constitution and because of what has been said, I do not think that this amendment should be voted on and should not be accepted. What is also very strange and unnecessary, which is also at the time when I was an opposition MP and now that I support the government, as well as most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have always looked forward to new friends and new friendships and new skills and new experiences that will come into the state of Serbia. No matter who made those friendships, they're your country's friendships. But I do mind those conditions in our society, that when the President of Russia comes to Belgrade for an official visit. Why did he come? It's unnecessary. When representatives of the United Arab Emirates come to Serbia, and we know what the investment potential and friendship and the desire to invest in Serbia are -- neither do they, you know, because the Prime Minister welcomed them. When Tony Blair comes to Serbia, with new knowledge that costs our country nothing, but they've been brought in -- we don't need him either. And who do we need? It comes from the same ones who from these assembly halls, from these benches, feared us, not us, we knew that it would not be, feared the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They respond to me in the ears of the words of 2012 when the government was formed in which the SNS participated, that such a government, without them, Serbia would be in isolation, hyperinflation, sanctions, madness. Then when something like this didn't happen, when a policy of merger, friendship policy occurred, primarily on the European path and friendship with European peoples, when strong contacts and strong integration happened in the region, when both the President of Croatia and the President of Hungary and the President of Slovenia and the President of the Parliament of Montenegro were in place, when he was accepted at the highest level as a statesman, because it is, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic, both in Sarajevo and in Zagreb, both in Moscow and in Berlin, and in Paris, it bothers us too. And what's the answer? And what's the answer? What's good? When the High Representatives of the European Union say – give evidence of censorship in Serbia, then from the same people will come an excuse and words – he is confused. Did Mrs Ann, who today from this assembly booth, get confused about reform steps and all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is carrying out? Why is there a part of our society that frowns on all the good things that happen? I thanked you for that, too. I also thanked you for that space where we can still make progress, because it's both incentives. But I will never understand, I will never support that, because of pure political hatred, I will welcome to the knife all the good that is happening in our society and in our country. With this amendment, which has been regulated, but by an explanation that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, and especially not that this draft law has also violated the Constitution, the SNS will vote against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23705	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go. Sign up, please. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, you haven't been mentioned once. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You didn't recognize me at all what was he talking about? ) Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23706	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, I would just like to say for a moment that it is absolutely not true that your amendments, the amendments of MP Zivkovic, have been rejected because they come from the opposition. The truth is, there have been 18 amendments to the Chemical Act. Of the 18 amendments, four amendments were adopted and these were amendments that had just been adopted and coming from the opposition's ranks. If you were present from the beginning, you could also hear that fellow MPs thanked for the amendment, even though they were adopted in a certain way and explained and explained it. I want to tell you something else, which is why the three-month deadline is scheduled for this sublegal act. It applies only to the three-month rule on fees. All other sublegal acts have been adopted in accordance with the Chemical Act. Now, in line with the proposed amendments to the Chemical Act, we have the obligation to adopt a rule on taxes, which is an extremely complex procedure, because it is not only up to our willingness and our work in terms of day and night, but it is simply necessary to carry out certain consultations and coordinations, above all with the Ministry of Finance. It's not easy to say the fees are going to be 5,000. The exact details and precise reasons must be behind that amount of tax. It's true that it's up to three months, but we're really going to try to be up to a month, we're just going to work as fast as possible, but we've left this space to eventually, if we encounter some extra time in determining the amount of tax. In the end, since it's not the amendment now, but I suppose you'll ask the same question why your amendment was rejected, is it just because it's from the opposition, it refers to the time of the law's entry into force. You say, eight days. We say it's important for us to get there as soon as possible. Believe me, I trust you, that you are seriously reading the laws and testify to the number of amendments that have been adopted, which comes from you. Amendments that even detect those technical errors and corrections and corrections in the text itself. That is why, I believe that only the adoption of this amendment, which would be for you one more amendment that has been adopted, does not mean much to you, and it means a lot to us not to waste time, but to get into the implementation of this law, especially since it is not a fundamental amendment that you are proposing. And I am particularly pleased that you pointed out that this essential part is actually a good part, and this technical part let us propose and that in line with the interest that is primarily for us that the sooner we go into implementation, the sooner you leave it to us, our conscience that we do, and we will be very grateful to you in that sense. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23707	Thank you, Madam Minister. Replication to Ms. Secretary's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23708	It's a good thing the minister called, so the defense was shut up. I'm sure the Minister has something to say good about this law, and I've done it a few times already. The law is solid, good at its essence, we said so in the principle debate, but there's no reason exactly for it to break down on the technical part. By your discussion, you have now confirmed my position that my amendment has only been rejected because it comes from us, from the opposition. You said that there was time, you said you had already prepared everything, you just said that the problem with the finance ministry is as far as I realized, and then by that law, if we cut the deadline for a month, you'd make the Ministry of Finance give you the information that is necessary for the assessment of the fees. So this is the 21st century, and these analyses are no longer done ink pens on high karo paper, but they exist in the databases of all facts and anyone who is even vispired, and of course there are such people in the Serbian government, can easily come up with all the analyses that will give a proper answer about how much tax there should be for any document. It's as clear as day. You said it was important for you to start the law as soon as possible. How it can work, and that depends on whether the law goes into effect the next day or in eight days, how it can take effect on the first day after adoption, if you don't have a tax code. So, when you don't have the sublegals in total, you can't get the law done. It's another proof that it was rejected just for this reason. Statistics that out of the 18 amendments, four were adopted, so that's proof that you're good to the opposition, please. Secondly, if anyone was thanking the opposition, the government accepted the amendment. No thanks to MPs, MPs can commend the government. Parliament is above government in every country, including Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23709	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23710	Dear President, Your Honor, I fully support the amendment's proposal, and I believe that in this case, the MPs have had a really good intention and have pointed out some of the illogicalities that exist here, especially those related to this amendment and to the amendment that comes behind. If we take into account the chronology of the events and point out once more to the MPs and draw your attention to the fact that practically this law had its first amendment, i.e. the amendment proposal in May 2012, that just after the formation of the Republic Government in 2012, this proposal was withdrawn from the procedure, that it was practically two and a half years and that your Ministry and Government of the Republic of Serbia had left this area uncovered, that we had come to the situation that you, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, were just stating the reasons concerning urgency, efficiency of the economy, investments, etc. We come to the question – which is why two and a half years later this area is not fully covered and why you are now asking for an emergency procedure without a public debate, you are asking that the next day, practically today, if we vote for this law and tomorrow it takes effect, and then you leave yourself a space for three months to adopt the rules and sublaws. So our proposal is to respect these amendments in any event in the event that you reject this amendment, then it is fully justified to accept the next amendment for the reason that your colleague stated. So, there's a huge illogicality that's made this area two and a half years out of coverage in the state of Serbia, which is why there's no register, which is why there's no jurisdiction, which is why there's no precision in the law, and now you're asking us to plead on an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23711	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I called back the moment my esteemed colleague was a farmer, wanting to offend me, saying that I was an MP of Renaissance knowledge. I don't mind that he tried to insult me, usually people think you're bad when you stop acting the way you do. So, in 2003, he didn't mind me voting against the Democratic Party for him to be prime minister, but he thinks I'm bad enough to even speak in the National Assembly and think that the Renaissance is a bad period. I have to tell him that the Renaissance was a very advanced period, that it was a period when science, culture, art, painting, Michelangelo, Leonardo, that at the time of the Renaissance, Columbus had found America, it would probably make him happy, in physics and mathematics, Galileo Galileo, Copernicus. So, I don't know what else to say to justify my knowledge and say that the Renaissance period was one good period for all of this and for the culture Bbio was good for vineyarding. It produced very beautiful wines, drank in Florence, built vineyards in Italy without any subsidies, without 525.000 euros, a very advanced period for us farmers, and for them vineyards. As far as trying to offend me, I don't think it suits him most likely that I wasn't in Coola at the JSO party, where he was dancing there and clapping along with Bajagina's song "My comrades are tough guys". If I don't answer for it, I'm proud because for some reason my discussion doesn't suit him. I even supported his request in the amendment that the deadline be 30 days, or that the Ministry recommends that the ministry does not wait three months to adopt a sublegal act, not to look at some former government but to try to make that deadline as short as possible, and even to fit into the amendment if possible, of my previous speaker. So, regardless of the attempt of insult, a man can't humiliate and insult anyone, he can humiliate me and insult me only better than me, the worse he's never in the 21st century free of curse – he may have been your winemaker as prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23713	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) On what basis, no mention of your name or name at all? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: So, you still haven't figured out what it was about? ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Please don't start your speech until I get word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Pavicevic, you know very well and you must respect the Rules of Procedure. If someone got the word, you'll get it after that. When Mr. Jovanovic is finished, you will get the word. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23714	I would like to thank the chairman, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry. I'm not going to argue with the amendment, but I'm going to settle with the explanation of the amendments that are most easily said for two reasons. The first reason is that there is no single norm, no single provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which restricts the proponent in discretionary law to set a deadline for the adoption of a sublaw. The reminders also for the sake of the truth that citizens need to hear, sublegal acts are passed just to allow for the more effective application of the laws that we are adopting today. If that is the objective, which is the objective of the sublaw, then it is the proposing that will set a deadline within which the sublaw will enter into legal life to enable the law to be effective in practice. Whether it's going to be five days, or three months, it's a matter of the promoter and the promoter keeping an eye on it, and it's doubtless there's no breach in that direction, no violation of the law or the Constitution. If the amendment promoter appears here as a constitutional defender and there are no other legal mechanisms so he can use them, let him submit an initiative to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of this proposed provision. I don't mind, and neither does the SPS parliamentary group, and I am confident of the entire ruling coalition, especially the government. That is why I find it absolutely unnecessary to comment on something that has no purpose in reason. The second reason is that the application of the law, regardless of what we are not now talking about, is the following, the application of the law proposed by the Proposer to begin on the first day of adoption, has its foothold, and does not state that it violates anything, any positive rule of law, any imperative norm. Those provisions of the laws that are urgent nature will take effect immediately. Those provisions of the law that will improve and, in practical application, gain its purpose by sublaw, will start later, and there is nothing controversial there, and that citizens should know. That's what's true, and that's why we need to support the promoter, we need to support the ministry and support the government of the Republic of Serbia. If the opposition uses this kind of reasoning solely for the purpose of declaring political existence, it thus contributes to improving the quality of neither the law nor the proposed member. As a result, the SPS parliamentary group and all well-intentioned MPs who are obliged to contribute to improving the quality of the law will not vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23715	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečiću, the Honorable Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I believe that, Mr Becic, you have just injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Articles 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 104 concerns the right of one MP to use a replica to another MP after the speech of that MP. It is obvious that the MP who spoke before the MP, Mr Neđa Jovanovic, gave his reference to what MP Zoran Zivkovic was talking about, misreading a good part of what MP Zoran Zivkovic spoke about, and according to Member 104, MP Zoran Zivkovic, in such a case, the respected chairman of Becic, had the right to reply, and you did not give him the right to do so. So you hurt the Rules of Procedure. You've also injured article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the MP who spoke before the MP Nedja Jovanovic, did not warn that in his discussion he would return to what is the agenda point, a member of the 106th was concerned. The item of the agenda at this point is our amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself to a member of the proposal for a chemical law. The People's MP who spoke spoke of everything except Mr. Becic about what was the subject and the contents of our amendment. Your duty was to warn him to begin by returning to the agenda. You have not responded either on the basis of Article 104 or on the basis of Article 106, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you now, on the basis of Rules of Procedure, to give a warning measure, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23717	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As you refer to Article 104, you do not read it to the end. Mr. Zivkovic was given the right to reply to Mrs. Minister's presentation when the conditions were and were mentioned in the presentation. Also, not to read again the same Article 104, but it is said in the end – that the exercise of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman. I estimated that the presentation of a gentleman who spoke and whose exposure was called by Mr. Zivkovic, that he had the right to replication, had no possibility, had no name and last name, nor in a negative context, had I recognized him from that exhibition, so I felt that I could use Article 104 and decide whether he had the right or not to have the right to reply. I've decided he doesn't have a right to replication. Every time we estimate he's entitled to a replica, he'll get a replica. Thank you. Should we vote on this? (Yes) Thank you. Anyone else want to go by the amendment? The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the chair of today's session, Mr. Bečić, respected Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, I think it is very important that we continue our debate on our amendment to Article 21 of this Bill, first of all, respected gentlemen, because the National Assembly is an institution in which the ideas and proposals of the law are discussed, instead of being kept silent in the National Assembly, as is the order, gentlemen. On the occasion of our amendment to this, that dialogue is appreciated instead of being called and marked by hatred, as Mr Babic did just before, the respected gentlemen cannot be directed towards dialogue to be hate, especially in an institution that serves the debate, gentlemen. What is this about, to remind once again the MPs and Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic and distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry, in order to convince you to accept this amendment and next to Article 22. So, in Article 21, let us remind ourselves once again, the Government has proposed the following – that the sublaw of Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, which is adopted under this law, be passed within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. We have suggested, gentlemen, that I remind the MPs a little, perhaps someone has not been able to read all the amendments and an explanation as to why one has been rejected, and some have been accepted, we have suggested that the regulations adopted under this law be passed within a month of the date of entry into force of this law. So we suggest, instead of three months, the moon. The government responded to our amendment why the Government does not accept it, the Government's representative wrote – the amendment is not accepted, because the adoption of this regulation, which regulates the level of taxis for the most complex administrative procedures in chemical management operations, requires an adequate assessment of the eligibility of costs. So it takes some time, as I understand it, to make an adequate assessment of the eligibility of costs. Now, gentlemen, I, in this very argument of the government, in response to Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, when she appeared here for our amendment, I notice one inconsistency, gentlemen. So, the government says, we need a lot of time to assess the eligibility of costs. Vladanam thus says, for some time, that we have been able to use for this kind of assessment so far, because the bill is being prepared for a while, and we haven't used it for that and now for the bill, gentlemen, which we propose to take effect on the next day of publication, which is something that is not a regular state, which is not respect for what is law and constitution, then for such a law that needs to come into force immediately tomorrow, requires three months, for a sublaw. Dear gentlemen, I see a kind of inconsistency in that. Our proposal was, gentlemen, a lot of three months. The ministry needs to show that it has been a serious matter so far, that it has analyzed, prepared, gone to meet this debate, and did not wait for today's debate to be given for another three months. The argument we offer here serves that and what is content, we have thus assessed, well that it is in an appropriate, formal way rounded. Our law is not only content, it's a matter of both form and procedure. And is it necessary, gentlemen, on the day we had a guest here from the Council of Europe, to call again on one point of the European Parliament resolution that is still discussing Serbia today, to call on one point where the European Parliament in Resolution says - too many laws by emergency procedure. We now see that even in those cases where there is no excuse for it, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, especially if we have had an unsettled field for two and a half years, part of the law. So let the law come in on the eighth day, and this government gives itself one task and says, "In a month, we will do it, we will show one efficiency." If the government won't, that the MPs here, all of us together, press that government to do it more effectively than it suggests, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23719	Replica, as you are mentioned, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23720	The most obvious example of inconsistency is when you look at these two amendments. After one amendment, the deadlines are reduced from three months to a month, and the second amendment extends from the date of entry into force of this law, from the next day to eight days. It's an obvious example of inconsistency and misunderstanding with itself. But I'm going to be a little bit more careful now, seeing as how some of my colleagues would limit the space, I guess that's so democratic, and that they limit me to what I can and can't say, so "stoko one" is acceptable, and "hate" is not acceptable. How do you call a case when you use an argument from a completely different amendment by talking about an amendment that's on the agenda? Ignorance of the Rules of Procedure or ignorance? Is that forbidden too? On the other hand, when the argument is used that the Constitution is broken and that it is boastful, and that it is not quoted and which member of the Constitution and by which, although it does not exist, then instead of one – sorry, we are again faced with an insult. What else is a truth deficit or a lie told? Therefore, choose whether political hatred, untruth, a deficit with truth, lies and ignorance. But I think at this point, and in these two amendments, all five cases are on the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23721	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and chairing today's session, respected Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, honored guests and guests from the ministry, when I was elected MP, honored gentlemen, in this assembly of our National Assembly, I chose to fight here for the best laws possible. And every time I participate in the debate, gentlemen, on any of our or other amendments to any bill, I fight for the laws to be the best for the citizens and the citizens of our country. That's why it's important for me here to say two things, in response to Mr. Zoran Babic. First of all, gentlemen, there is no inconsistency in our amendments. We're absolutely following logic. We are calling for Article 3. The Constitution concerning one of the key principles of our country - the rule of law, gentlemen. And the rule of law also concerns the generality of the law and the harmonisation of the law and the legality and justice, gentlemen, and we in our amendments are calling for that member of the Constitution. We are consistent because we claim here that the law should enter into force as the law and the Constitution provides, not that the time is shortened, but that the time required for the sublegal act is reduced to a month, because three months, in our opinion, is a lot. Dear gentlemen and Mr. Becic, this is to pass on to Mr. Babic, when a national MP calls dialogue and debate hate, then, in my court, it is a blow to democracy in our country, especially when it is done by the head of the parliamentary group of the largest parties in our National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23723	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Replica, mentioning the name and last name, MP Zoran Babic, please. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23724	If political hatred is a blow to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then I will ask you to ask Mr. Becic and ask you to ask Mr. Pavicevic - and what is it when a national MP of yours, Mr. Chairman, and in this way all other MPs, and in this way all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who sent us here to represent their interests and to protect their interests, to represent them, here call "store one"? What's the blow? What's the blow? Who's that hit on? On the other hand, I will do it for the third time and I will repeat until I get the answer, and I will probably get it when Mr. Pavicevic tells us what is the notary that had the income of 160, 180,000 euros in one month. He hasn't said and it's been going on for over half a year. Article 3 – The rule of law is the basic assumption of the constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. The rule of law is exercised through free and direct elections, constitutional guarantees of human and minority rights, the division of power, independent judicial authority and the obeying of the Constitution and the law. Where are the deadlines for the sublaw? They're gone. But that's why it is political hatred when you use an argument that doesn't stand, just to attack the government and the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. It's hate, as much as you're worried about it, because it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23725	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Dr. Pavicevic, last time you received a replica, there was not enough ground, so I would respect what I said, to close the circle of replicas. You'll have a chance to speak again. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23726	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the reasons for the amendments are how the opposition does it, the way the opposition proves its political or still political existence, then it's a bad way, very bad because the inversion is trying to create a confusion among citizens about what we're doing here. Are we doing something that involves quality law or doing something contrary to it? It's obviously such an attempt to make a political failure here. I must lastly, reporting under this amendment, point out something that cannot be doubted, at least not from the point of view of the profession, because here many have said that they do not have much contact with the profession when these issues are in the domain of our discussion, first of all, a three-month period left for the adoption of a sublegal act is an optimal deadline and that is the deadline, which means that the sublegal act can be brought in five days and within 15 and within a month, the longest within three months. On the other hand, the nature of the law itself is such that in certain parts, given the essence and purpose of the law, the law is applied immediately and is in the interest of those to whom the law applies, and that is all of us, primarily citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If so, and so, then we cannot doubt the obligation of us as MPs to enable the immediate application of the law in the part where it must be applied immediately. In the rest of the part where a sublegal act really needs to enable effective application, the practical application of the law, I am convinced that the proposer will bring this sublegal act at the most recent time, and in any case, when it is most necessary for the law to be in full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23727	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23728	I want to ask all my fellow MPs one more time. I think Mr Babic also had a good intention and it seems to me that he was on the trail of what I mentioned in my first address about this amendment, which is the illogicality regarding these two amendments that are somehow connected. So, once again, I want to point out that two and a half years is a completely empty and uncovered space of this country, the ministries, the government and this society since the abolition of the Chemicals Agency here and we come here with a debate that today you are seeking immediate adoption of amendments and laws, means an emergency procedure. You have the reasons you listed here. The next amendment also discusses that the law enters into force tomorrow. So our question is if two and a half years this government hasn't arranged this area, who's responsible for it? Our question is why is it that if we are discussing 21 members of this law today, the government and the ministry have not already prepared proposals for regulations and sublaws? If you're asking for this law to be applied tomorrow, then why is 30 days of adoption of sublegal acts delayed? I guess for these two and a half years, you've been doing something on those suggestions, huh? I see no reason why it is illogical for MPs today to ask questions or demand that the principle be applied and that all actions, including the adoption of sublegal acts, are carried out as a matter of urgency. If you are already calling for damage already produced by businesses, institutions, businesses in this country, citizens, etc., then the sublegal act by emergency procedure is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23729	Thank you. Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23730	I would remind all MPs who do not know it or who deliberately do not want to read the truth that this Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2014, that the mandate of the MPs was verified to all of us at the meeting on 16 April 2014. Thus, no deadlines and no flow of time on any abacus can be converted into two and a half years from April to March of the following year. In the same logic and in the same way, I can ask the question of what you've been doing for 12 years, what have you been doing in Vojvodina for 15 years, what have you done, besides destroying, destroying, robbing, kidnapping, taking, not building, stopping? What else have you been doing for 12 or 15 years? What else did you do, except put weights on our feet, weights on our hands, and then say why don't you run faster than Jussein Bolt? Well, we can't, but we want to take off our weights, we want to train well, we want to get on the line, we want to compete, and I'm sure that, as in athletics, as well as in tennis, as in many other spheres, and not only in sports, Serbia will be the champion and be the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23731	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23732	Dear Mr. President, I'd like Mr. Babic to explain who Hussein Bole is. I'm not sure who that man is. The right to tell you, it's becoming quite degutant that in our attempt to really point this debate in the right direction, we get the charges, and the same story is repeated about the past, and what it was, I don't know, how many years ago. In an explanation of the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, it states that the first draft of this law was sent to the procedure in May 2012, that because of the formation of the Republic Government in 2012, the proposal was removed, that one year later in December 2013, the law was sent to the assembly procedure and that it was practically in March 2015. If we add that period, it means two and a half years, especially since September 2012, when the Chemical Agency is abolished, we practically have an unsettled area. We are looking for answers to the question of why it is so and who is responsible and instead of getting the reasoned answers, to get the discussion that this Assembly deserves, we are getting back some flat-rate accusations of what we did. I have to tell Mr Babic that since 2007 and 2008 the Ministry of Environmental Protection has just passed over 30 laws, over 250 sublaws, and probably this law was passed in 2009 and 2010 by being prepared under the law. Today we are changing 21 members of this law. So what was the problem with having these 21 members do sublegal acts? Which is why the problem is that the urgent procedure for the next day must be adopted and that is why all the results that are obvious, and in principle we talked about it, in a way we debated this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23733	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23734	As Mr. Markovic does not know that no ministry, nor does the Ministry of Environmental Protection, makes laws, but the government proposes to the National Assembly of Laws, and the National Assembly adopts laws, so Mr. Markovic, is part of a general culture, not knowing who Jusei's Bolt, that it was an athlete from Jamaica, born in 1986, that in three times since 2009, 2010 and 2013, he was named the world's best athlete and that he was the world's fastest man, the world record of 9.56 seconds, for what he ran 100 meters. It is, Mr. Markovic, Jusei's Bolt, and the government of the Republic of Serbia learns and compares and looks at the best, looks at the champions because we want to become champions and become champions of our citizens, become champions of society. We don't look at and compare to those who have made various deals for optical cabals that are now part of the investigation, and I see both the charges brought and confirmed before the Special Court for Organized Crime. We won't compare to those who spend more time on Ustasha Street, but we want to compare and look to the champions. Serbia and its citizens deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23735	Thank you. Replica, MP Mr. Jovan Markovic. Please do not mention the names of the Members of the People when you are discussing it, because it allows for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23736	I'm absolutely sure I knew what Mr. Babic's previous statement was about and I think he probably accidentally told Bole instead of Bolt. I think after what he said about my ignorance is about the subject, the practical consequence of his ignorance, because I'm sure, far more and better aware of it than Mr. Babic, but we're not going to get into it. I think what he's getting tired of saying is pain falls, as he's lost track of the optic cables, but the optic cord, and let it sort of get into his lapus today's discussion. What I don't think really resembles this discussion is the way people who used to do something in this country talk. So the principle debate, and that's how it's going to be today, is going to be a lot of these exact accusations of very casual, very ambiguous people talking about people who aren't present. At the very least, I think that you, President, should warn the MPs who speak of other people in this way. Today, we heard the accusations that, let's say, Mr Dinkic was guilty of abolishing the Environmental Protection Fund, and no one mentions that Mrs Mihajlovic has been the minister in this portfolio since 2012 and that she has just ordered that the Environment Fund be abolished. In the principle debate, we heard the minister say it was our fault that there was no money in the account when that fund was abolished, that is, when she took over. There may have been no money when she took over after two years that fund, but the moment the fund was abolished, there were three billion and 100 million dinars. So it occurred to someone that because of this money that puts them into the needs of how they think they're removing that fund, after two and a half years, we're practically adopting laws that confirm and abolish agencies in that period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23737	Time. Thank you. Replica, MP Zoran Babic, also mentioned names and names. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23738	I'm going to ask these wonderful people who spend more time here than we do, and from the technical service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they're going to make little noises, because unless a colleague just heard and recognized Mr. Bolt's name, now he's heard something completely different from me and how I used the word optical cables. But what we can't, I won't, and I don't want to compare is the next fact. The Environment Fund was abolished in September 2012 due to non-transparent spending of funds. The total liabilities of the fund, according to contracts concluded by sectors, amounted to only 7,435,293,586 dinars at that time. The number of projects was 1480. I also have a structure, but I don't want to burden you. In other words, this fund, which Mr. Markovic so praised, left a debt of seven and a half billion dinars and about two thousand contracts, or unfinished projects. The alarming data is that 316 projects have been fully paid without the adoption of the final report, i.e. the projects themselves have neither begun, and have been paid completely to the end. Such an intransparent way of spending money, so proud of the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is inadmissible and therefore something so much more will not happen in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23739	Thank you, Mr. Granny. This closes the circle of replicas. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Ivan Karić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's MP Ivan Karic, please. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Very difficult words are spoken, so why don't you give me a replica? I gave my word to Mr. Karic. You'll get your word when Mr. Karic is finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23740	I thank you, the Honorable Chairman of my amendment and amendment to the SDS parliamentary group, the UZS and the ZS sound identical. Our reasons are not so prosaic, nor do we feel that this amendment is essential for us to discuss it for an hour and a half. This amendment we wanted to bear just to draw attention that it might look different, that it should look different and it seems to me, if someone still remembers that discussion from the beginning, the esteemed Mr. Babic, that we were on the same track, that it would be better if it were faster, that it would be good to adopt the sublaw earlier. We wanted to draw attention here that we should have done it before three months ago. We believe that this should be done at the same time, but probably colleagues who are much longer in parliament than I know probably no law has ever been at the same time with sublaws. I think of it as a flaw. It would be good if they came at the same time. We just wanted to point out that we should come at the same time and that in this way we can have insight at the same time into everything together. Obviously, the shadows of the past are burdening both sides and we've talked about everything except this amendment. That's why we almost agreed, and in fact we deepened a conflict that is not essential, but a conflict that is of a formal nature, because Green Serbia disagrees essentially with this Chemical Act. We have submitted this amendment only to try to draw attention to the need to work on a one-time basis and to point out once again that if there were, or if there was, a Chemical Agency, this might be prepared, and then at this point we would consider amending the laws and proposing sublegal acts. I don't think this is a fundamental objection, and we won't explain it if there's any further involvement in the debate. It would be good to change the habit and to submit the sublaws in the future, because it is in line with some EU fluids, but we lost two hours needlessly, I think, in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23741	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23742	Thank you. Dear MPs, after a long debate on the deadlines this law provides for the adoption of sublegal acts, I believe it is necessary for our citizens to know the following. In 2009, when the Chemical Act was adopted, the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts was two years, 24 months, Reverend Karic. Now that we're passing a new law or amending the law, we're setting a three-month deadline. So we approach extremely seriously and responsibly. We've prepared everything necessary for the application of the law. We still need to establish and propose a tax code. It's a financial assessment that's not harmless, and it requires one seriousness of the studio. We promise to work as fast as possible and we won't wait for three months to pass, but this is simply one period that gives us the opportunity to responsibly and properly assess the height of taxis. So, compared to those 24 months that you gave yourself when that law was passed, we are now giving ourselves a much shorter time, which speaks enough of how much we as a government and this ministry want to speed up everything that can now be accelerated and correct everything that can be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23743	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ivan Karic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23744	I thank you, though I have the right to a replica. I was explicitly mentioned by the Honorable Minister. That's why I mentioned the shadows of the past. Maybe I should have said -- demons of the past. I remember very well where I was in 2009, collecting signatures to register the Green Serbia party, but I also remember very well where your party was in 2009, in the same ministry. The SPS gentleman was the deputy minister and allowed such a law to enter and to be listed for 24 months as necessary for compliance and for the introduction of sublegal acts. So, Green Serbia was collecting signatures to enter this parliament and to change the habits in this parliament, while you participated in the 2009 government and passed a disastrous Chemical Law, 2009 and 2012 and 2014. You can't honor me for something I didn't participate in. I've been with my parliamentary group since 2012, since she was in the opposition, and in the past 25 years your party has been in power for 20 years. So these arguments that you're making to me and you're honoring me don't stand, and I don't think they're right and they're not collegiate. That's why I think you're devoting yourself from the shadows of the past and looking into the future, because the children of this country expect solutions from you, not what happened 10 years ago, which was 15 years ago. It was what happened. If it were good, we wouldn't be here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23745	Thank you, Mr. Karicu. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23746	Apparently, the MP didn't understand me very well. I didn't come here from a political point of view, I addressed myself in the professional sense of that word. So those who proposed the law in 2009 also knew that the job of adopting sublegal acts, related to the Chemical Law, was an extremely serious and demanding thing. That's why they suggested two years. We also now know that it is necessary to seriously access the rules on taxes, but we are now giving ourselves a much shorter deadline to adopt this rule. I apologize to you if you've identified yourself in some negative context. So, I was just talking about the deadlines that were scheduled for sublaws in one case and the other. These things are of a very professional nature and they just don't tolerate any politics when it comes to these things, so the deadlines needed to adopt good sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23747	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23748	Thank you, Chairman. I was categorically saying there was no need to report. But after a discussion like this that goes into purely political frameworks, I think a reaction is needed. It doesn't matter here if someone who has been participating in power, in the previous period, has somehow generated a problem. Problems have been generated in different ways, and everyone involved in this participation, including those who are now calling for these problems. Therefore, no one can be either amnested or appalled by everything that has been done, and no one is interested in us going back into the past and looking for mistakes, but by this very law, which we are adopting today, we are looking for the best solutions for the future of the Republic of Serbia's citizens, for the future of our children, for the future of all those to whom this law applies. Therefore, I will repeat, the legal deadline for the adoption of a sublaw does not exist as an imperial norm. It exists as a discretionary right of the promoter. The promoter has set it for three months, considering that it is sufficient time for its adoption. Let's not do anything about it anymore that involves avoiding the essence of the law and the purpose of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23749	On the 22nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Čapo, together MPs Marko Đurisić, Dr Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic, Ivan Karić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Home and Dr Blažje Bradić and together the National MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavić. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23750	Citizens and citizens of Serbia, right now we are going to come to the essence of these two amendments, their purpose and a clear explanation of how the government got involved and how we came to this situation to talk an hour and a half about something that is completely unnecessary. It was only meant to be adopted and our first amendment and our second amendment. The amendment states that Article 22 "the next" is replaced by "the eighth". This means that we call for the law to be appropriate to the Constitution, where it says that the laws enter into force on the eighth day of publication. There's no reason to speed it up. The reason for the refusal of our amendment is that it is not accepted for reasons why the bill sets out exactly the reasons why the law should enter into force before the eighth day, and these reasons say that this is a need to ensure continuity in the financing of the chemical management system, as well as a legal framework for the collection of fees for procedures implemented under this law. You're just explaining to us that it takes you three months to get these taxes. Then how can the day after the announcement come into force of the law, where it is important to enter the first day for taxis, and for fees you ask for three months to write them? That's the point. Calling history, what happened, when there was, who was, where there was, is the politics of the worst kind. There is no hatred in the performance of fellow Pavicevic and my performance, regardless of the great reasons why she should appear, but that's why people differ.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23751	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23752	Therefore, I think it is clear what the problem is and I think the citizens of Serbia should know what it is, and the government, the minister in charge, now has the last chance to correct his mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23753	The amendment is proposed by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23754	Dear Chairman, I can discuss my amendment, right? Here, unlike the previous amendment, we just wanted to draw attention that there is no need for too much haste, since after the vote in the Assembly, eight days from the day of the vote, the law comes into force. We believe that this is not essential for the application of this law, and we would do well to respect the procedures, and that those procedures that do not exist, as in the previous amendment, are being introduced, because it is the fluid in the EU that the draft laws and sublegal acts come at the same time. I agree, and all I'm saying is that it's inappropriate and unnecessary to mention history, what who's doing, what who hasn't done, but to see what's going to happen. I can't identify myself in a context that I haven't been in, but I can only say that you were wrong when you put me in that context and that's why I'm reacting, and because it's very quickly forgotten how some part of the government is, so when he's with someone else in power, he forgets that he was with the previous one. I wasn't in power with them when you were. Therefore, all objections go to you and to their account, not to my account. It is my desire that you change habits and change Serbia for the better. The one that we support well, and that has been obvious so far, and what's wrong, a lot of it's not right, we're trying to make suggestions, not just critical, but also critical of changing some of your attitudes or changing some of your policies. That is how we believe that, thanks to you, thanks to us, Serbia will become a better place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23755	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23756	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, I assume, are already guessing that I am not against solutions that are being adopted more effectively. I think we've talked about this in this house on many occasions. I'm not against the deadline coming into line with what's the initial proposal, so shorter than the eighth day. This isn't the first time we've talked about this. It's not the first time in this particular session that we're talking about this deadline for entry into force. Nothing new is happening today, which we haven't done before, but again we spend an hour and a half, first of all, talking about this deadline, even before, when it comes to some other amendments, probably because there wasn't much to say about them, so then we relied on this topic here. I understand that someone needs to be against what comes as a proposal from the government. Let it be some political identification, and even when it's illogical and when it calls itself for consistency where a certain time is predicted. It says, no, we don't give time, and where efficiency targets are said – no, we don't need that efficiency. If we forget all that, I understand that someone has a need to be against just because they want to point out some difference, although I personally don't support it, and I would never set myself up like that. What I don't understand is that we don't keep choosing words, and then we mention some respect for the Constitution. Whether or not it is a fact, dear colleagues, that this constitution itself says something more on the subject of this eight-day period, a little more than eight days and a point. Whether Article 196(4) should be read by someone else, I wanted to perhaps be helpful in this matter myself, says that this deadline may be shorter if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as established in their adoption. Does it say or doesn't it? It says. Well, if it says so. Is it true that the existence of this justifiable reason that is determined, determines the National Assembly, does not determine the National Assembly, perhaps I was wrong, somehow I understand that we here are constantly pleading whether or not there is a justifiable reason when we act on these matters. It will still be established by the National Assembly. Is there room for words of the government's haughtiness, violation of the Constitution, etc? Of course not. Everyone is free to give their judgment. Yeah, I think the reason down there is unwarranted or, no, I don't, but what's it gonna be? The National Assembly will decide, a democratic vote will decide, as is the order. If we call on each other to respect the dialogue and to respect everyone's time, first of all, the people who sent us here don't waste it in vain. So let's always start by ourselves and first pick our own words, not to be the first word after the microphone is turned on, the unnecessary attack, although all of this is the way it is, to end human and politely as it suits this debate, and to move on to that decision, among other things, to the existence of this justifiable reason. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23757	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23758	Dear Chairman, I would like to express my support for the MPs who have tabled this amendment, because it is speaking and pointing to the illogicalities that have been the subject of our analysis in the last hour, as far as these members of the law are concerned, and ultimately, the whole emergency procedure of passing this law. I just want to point out that you are proud that you will speed up the procedure for seven days and that instead of eight days tomorrow you will apply this law, and two and a half years this society, this state, this government is doing nothing to settle this issue and this area in the way that it needs to be done. In an explanation why this law is adopted as an emergency procedure, it is said, among other things, that this is a need to ensure continuity in the functioning of the management system, etc. as well as respecting the legal framework for the change or likely application of jurisdiction under this law. I also talked in principle about exactly how important it is that there is continuity in doing certain jobs. I was just saying how devastating it is that you've lost continuity in doing these activities, that is, because you've abolished the Chemical Agency, that you've abolished the Environmental Protection Fund, and I just can't understand today that you want, by speeding up seven days to apply this law, to sort of eliminate all of your responsibilities that exist on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23759	Thank you. After we've completed our search of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Marković, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Ćirić, Ivan Karić, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Đorđe Stojić and Mr Dejan Capo, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavić, Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academicianoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanović Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaže Bradić. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Ivan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23760	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, therefore, have shown that the competent Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection has not adequately responded to the needs of citizens in the field of environmental protection since September 2012. We talked about it today and a few days ago, that Serbia is 50 years behind countries in the region, that it has been behind the most developed European countries for over 100 years. So, since we can't say until the end that the current minister's fault is for this area, sometimes when the agency's been abolished, it's with all the employees, with the existing documentation until then, and together with everything she's been doing, the Energy Ministry has moved to the then. So one of the first agencies to be abolished is exactly the chemical agency, one of the five best rated in Serbia. From 2012 to today, the European Commission has had negative estimates, when it comes to environmental protection in Serbia. What is also important is that we amendments have tried to bring back a chemical agency that would meet the needs of Serbian citizens in an adequate manner, as suggested by the European Commission in years behind us. However, this has not happened, and that is why we are very disappointed. Young experts who were then working at the Chemical Agency are now largely fleeing Serbia and seeking happiness in another European Union country, which is the official policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where brain drains are bigger than the 1990s. The European Union, which recognised the agency as a matter of real value attention, through projects and donated itself to the agency and through various projects tried to give an institutional framework of support to Serbia when it comes to environmental protection. It is also possible to acquire knowledge from toxicology and ecotoxicology when it comes to schooling in Serbia, and these are many things that represented benefit, unlike today, when Serbia has been here for the third year in a row not only has no agency, but this area from SNS personnel to that extent has been built up that you will find it very difficult to preserve that level from 2012. So in 2018, if you fight and if you have the courage and strength to reach the 2012 level, which means that six years have been missed, that Serbia has been cassing in place for six years. We believe that you will be full of challenges, of course, as we have said, on that path if you have the best intentions and if you propose the right things, you will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23761	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23762	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, I had no intention of answering, but I'm listening to the amendment and something pulled me back to react. Anyone can stand the amendment they want, think what they want, but you know when we talk about brain drains, it's devastating for Serbia, and that statistics say, unfortunately, in the period from 2000 to 2012, in three or four times as many young people have gone away as the 1990s. So much for that wonderful period that you served us here. The only thing you made possible for young people was that they were hired possibly by a party line in the state sector. You haven't developed anywhere, with any young man an entrepreneurial spirit to do something on its own. The only place they could get a job is in your crazy agencies that you've opened up here and possibly in the state administration. And that was the height of a young man's achievement when he graduated from college without talking about some improvement. So that story about the brain drain seems to me like it's no use to you, and it's stupid that you're even making it now because you've led us to the fact that the youngsters really couldn't wait to get out of this country. Exactly because if they weren't DS members, they could just say goodbye to work or get out of here and look for a better future. You're the only one who could have hired them somewhere. That we don't lie to each other and today there is, and in our time there is that. But it's significantly reduced and it's going to be completely contained because it's not normal that if you have a party book you can get a job and it's not normal for a student only when he's out of college to dream of hiring in the state sector. On the contrary, we want to develop a private sector and we want people to develop their entrepreneurial spirit and we think it's something that's good. It's something that, of course, all the countries of the developed world are developing, and you've led us to the ultimate achievement of being that if you finish electrical engineering college you work in the state administration, which is completely out of your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23763	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Bozovicu, you can't get a replica, you can only by amendment You can't because you didn't mention it yourself. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I can't replica?]] It could be more replicated by Mr. Markovic, but he did report after the amendment anyway. First he has a word, then you, Mr. Bozovic. Here you go. The word has the magistrate Jovan Markovic, since he is authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23764	From the time of the group, the chairman. The esteemed chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, is said to have given no convincing reason to accept this amendment in light of the government's refusal of this amendment. I believe that in the principle debate, and what Ms. Minister finally said, we have given clear enough reasons, however, we have explained our views on the adoption of this law fully aware that it is only a formalisation of some of the decisions of 2012 and the abolition of the Chemicals Agency and that you will, in fact, be aware of this fundamental approach and the concept of resolving this issue to these comments that we have heard a little bit earlier, as the colleague puts it, of the crazy agencies, of the employment charges, etc. But I don't want to talk about it, because it's exactly how many MPs have prepared for this topic and how closely they have analyzed the differences between the time that this agency existed and this two-and-a-half-year period and how seriously they've analyzed what way we're going to go on. I think that this particular species of ours, one of the courage shown here, should have been a signal to you, too, to seriously consider the path and concept that is determined by the application of this law. I will begin by showing you that this society and the state are struggling with all the problems that are related to this area, that we are fully aware of the obligations that are ahead both the RS Government and the institutions of this country in the EU accession process under Chapter 27 and are fully aware that 30% of the jobs that are ahead in these processes are related to environmental and environmental protection. So we pointed out that there is a need for continuity, and we asked you to just return to the period from 21 June 2004 when the National Environmental Action Plan was adopted, which required that all the institutions of this country, from local to republican state level, be agreed, make their action plans and determine their behaviours in relation to air pollution, water, land, industry, etc. We believe it was necessary to continue the continuity that the state of Serbia has a ministry that deals specifically with this topic, that the action plans that were previously established must be respected and that it is inadmissible to create this discontinuity in the period from 2012, i.e. the interruption, which has just been shown here, and we have just wanted to point out these amendments. Let's go back to what's called continuity. If you have come to the situation as a ministry and as a government that in March 2015 you do not have a register of data concerning biocidal products, if you have come to the situation that after a year and a half you have no answer for what was responsible for the construction of dozens and hundreds of apartments that had in their construction and use of paints and colors that were against human health, who is to blame for many of the incidents that occurred in the previous period, and you do not have a response of society, institutions to responsibility, then we are asking questions about the path you are going. It is the agency we are talking about that is one of the European Commission's best rated agencies. It was there that professional people who were responsible, who carried the processes concerning these areas, 95% of the users of the services of the agency, i.e. the users of the ministries, etc., who were satisfied with the agency's work on this issue. Why are you now artificially trying to conceal your ignorance, your incompetence and your bad concept in these two and a half years with the application of this law and you won't accept the mistake and say, well, we were wrong to abolish the agency, we were wrong to abolish the Environmental Protection Fund? Mr Babic was not present in that part of the principle debate, and today also confirms how badly he is ill-prepared for this discussion and, Mr. Chairman and Madam Minister, that today we hear from the head of the parliamentary club, which says, or acknowledges that in October 2014, the RS government abolished the Environmental Protection Fund and thus threatened 2000 already agreed projects. So 4.5 billion dinars of money that exist that year in the budget has been practically abolished and directed towards road construction, to some budget gaps, etc. At the time, I witnessed that almost all local administrations were given orders from the RS government not to pay the obligations made under the contracts that year, and I cannot believe that this was done for projects concerning environmental protection. This kind of irresponsibility that is now covered by attacks and media and in every other way is unacceptable. That's why, Madam Minister, in the principle debate, I suggested that you choose your authority for the road and for the concept. It's not enough just in this law to change a few things that are related whether it's called tax or compensation. It is impossible to expect that if the ministry has confirmed that these two years have failed, only through the change of these 21 members will it establish a system and establish rules of conduct. I think it's necessary, you don't have to call it an agency, you don't have to call it a desk, if the experiences of other countries that apply similar laws are such that there has to be some regulatory body composed of people who deal with the profession, from the best experts in the state, then you have to apply these positive impressions to Serbia. We find it inadmissible in addition to all the expectations that the agency is being discredited in this way, that today we listen to very casual statements and statements that, in fact, affect how you make decisions. If you would listen to your colleagues, if you applied experience from both the environment and other countries and the experience we have had since 2009, you would see that our intention with the proposal to keep the agency has positive effects. I asked you if after two and a half years of this concept that has been established, Serbia has data and has successfully met all the problems and requirements regarding air pollution, water pollution? I asked if any water accumulations in Serbia today have a measure of the quality of surface water? I asked you how today responds to problems related to air pollution, in many cities and many situations? I asked about how we manage recycling today, who's responsible for the licenses for the transport of biocidal products, etc.? I received the answer that I am the last man, or we as a party, the last party in the country to ask such questions. Why do you think we're not worthy to ask that? Why do we today have no answers to such questions, or Serbian citizens? We felt that it was your authority and your intersection to tell all MPs, including the Serbian Government - what has been since 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, that is good, we need to get back to that level. If we are already returning the Environment Fund and is looking forward to having seven billion dinars there, which will be spent directly and intentionally on projects concerning and developing local communities and solving many issues and problems in this area and some meeting the conditions ahead of us in the next period, then we must also face how the system will work. I think that just because we had a series of unresolved problems over the past two and a half years, we had a series of situations that talk about irresponsibility, intricacy, ignorance, etc., was enough reason to support this amendment and kind of change this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23765	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You've spent time with an authorised parliamentary group, and there are only 13 and a few minutes left from the parliamentary group. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23766	Mr. Markovic persistently twists facts and twists what is said in this Assembly and somehow hears in a different way. The fund was not abolished in 2014, but I made it clear that it was abolished in September of 2012, Mr. Markovicu. So, September of 2012. Do we understand each other?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23767	Please, Mr. Babico, don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23768	But what Mr. Markovic didn't understand, and I'll do my best to say one thing at a time, is why out of the 2000 projects, 316 projects have been paid completely through the Environmental Protection Fund, without the adoption of the final report, without implementing the provisions of the law? For what reason has the Fund co-financed projects to avoid the application of public procurement regulations and the Public Procurement Act itself? What made the Fund, directed by DS, Oliver Dulic and you, Mr Markovic, the funds paid up to 90% in advance, without any final work, without anything and how was it done? What is the reason why the 2009-2012 action was listed, which is why Serbia's "Let's Clean Serbia" action cost 25m euros, and my Vrnjaka Banja continues to deposit garbage into depression caused by excavations of gravel and sand alongside West Morava? Not only does Vrnjačka Banja, most local self-government in the Republic of Serbia does so. What are the effects and why the Fund used those funds to, instead...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23769	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23770	One more sentence, Mr. Becic. ... Funding of capital projects to solve environmental problems, Fund, Oliver Dulic and Mr. Markovic finance various construction works, procurement of new and used equipment, fuel, living rooms, and huge amounts are allocated to media promotion through newspapers, television and various sites, if we are already on press pressure? Those answers interest me, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23771	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Jovan Markovic, a replica, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23772	The Honorable Chairman, I am quite certain that Mr Babic was not present in this hall in principle debate. I think I may have mentioned eight or nine times that on 29 September 2012, the Chemical Agency was abolished, and in that process those days, the Environmental Protection Fund was abolished, and I thought it was a disaster. I see, and I'm glad that the Minister and her team decided after two and a half years that the Fund should return, that this is the way we're going to solve things. I'm a very good listener, and I'm a very good follower of what's being said here. When Mr. Babic said in one of the previous exhibitions: "optic cabals", I thought he probably meant cables, so I pointed out the mistake. That was what you said, so I apologize if that's different, but I thought it was good to know what you're talking about. During the period of existence of the Fund, Mr. Babic, from 2008 to 2012...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23773	Please, Mr. Markovic, don't address another MP directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23774	... More than 30 laws have been passed, over 200 sublegal acts, 500 wild deposits have been removed from Serbia, and more than 200,000 cubic pieces of waste have been taken out of various locations annually. We've come into a situation where the recycling industry is open and around 10,000 people have been employed. What you're saying today, after the four or five years that have passed, is that it's a full-scale detachment of information that doesn't serve you anything. You with this information, Mr. Babic, not only do you humiliate people who have worked on very important projects and jobs, but you stop everything that needs to happen in Serbia. The way you talk about those people who had results behind them prevents any kind of activation, prevents action plans in Serbia from being realized, prevents us from solving problems and issues. What you're saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23775	Time, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23776	Only if I can finish the sentence. I'm telling you again, if there were any failures, if there were illegal actions, if there were any crimes, let the institutions of this country do their job. Allow people freedom and breadth to work, not to stop people from acting with these remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23777	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, by the replica, and that closes the circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23778	Mr. Bečić, there is a saying in our people, I will paraphrasise it – I, by road, Mr. Markovic with the forest. I ask the questions – where is the money, where is 25m euros, where is the dump in Vrnjačka Banja, where it is, and he tells me about the laws and sublaws. Here, I'll ask another question, actually two, to Mr. Becic. First of all, all that crap that's been picked up so nicely in that action, with all those hats, marketing moves and all that, where'd it go? At the next dump called the dump, because the sanitary dumps in Serbia have six for this sized Serbia. One more question for you, Mr. Becic, to pass on to Mr. Markovic. Has he heard of the New Vol company, the two-week campaign directed by DS and Oliver Dulic, for several billboards and one canvas on Pop Luka Street? Do you know how much it cost those few billboards and that one canvas on Pop Luka's street? Five hundred thousand euros. In two weeks, 500 thousand euros. Well, is that the economy directed by DS, Mr. Dulic, Mr. Markovic and everyone else? Is that a practice that needs to be continued? I think it's a crime, and that's not what the National Assembly should be dealing with, but the competent state authorities. I think the prosecution is already dealing with it, but the way the desire for a better environmental society in our country shows billboards and one canvas on Pop Luka's 500 000-euro street is the degradation of the National Assembly, Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23779	Thank you, Mr. Babic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Balsa Bozovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Please, I was mentioned five times. Mr. Markovic, you've had enough opportunities, you've received a replica. Now the word has Mr. Bozovic, so you will be able to report by amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the site: Please, I was mentioned five times in a negative context. ) Mr Markovic, you cannot report for replicas indefinitely and that the other MPs have no right or ability to report after the amendment. If you don't want to, Mr. Bozovic, I'll give a word to someone else. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Chairman, how about the Rules of Procedure? ) He can't, Mr. Pavicevic, because he got the word Mr. Bozovic. Please, Mr. Bozovic, re-apply to return time to the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23780	Thank you, Chairman. I'll also try to respond to those objections from Mr. Djukanovic and these objections from Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23781	Mr. Bozovic, please, you can only get the amendment, that's how you got the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23782	Yes, it's an amendment to the debate. Thank you. So what we talked about on this amendment, which is why the Agency is really missing in our system, is because of the excellent results we had in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Then there's been three years of emptiness, where experts who worked with the moss were fired, and they were young experts. We just talked about how many of them today are waiting for some of their happiness in some other EU countries. From 2012 to today, 90,000 people have left Serbia. That's what the official data is, and Mr. Djukanovic was just talking about it. When it comes to party employment, after the recognition of the former finance minister, 50,000 people were employed in the public sector after the ban. So they're members of the SNS. When it comes to, here this morning, something that is also likely to concern your ministry, when it comes to the Agroziv company, where 500 workers are left out of work because they have no solution for their status, no social security, no health insurance. When it comes to acidic land in Obrenovac, here it is, for example. Today something that the Chemical Agency and how it could affect, a acidic country in Obrenovac, where the citizens of Obrenovac do not know who to turn to after the flood. Let's not talk about all the results that people from the DS just did by 2012, which we're proud of. Oliver Dulic, as minister, received a positive assessment from the European Commission when it comes to 2010, 2011 and 2012. Minister Bogosavljevic himself has just admitted, in a debate in principle, that Zorana Mihajlovic has returned the state 50 years back these three years because of the protection of the environment in her energy portfolio. Today Serbia is 50 years behind 2012. The European Commission's negative assessment for 2012, Mr Babic, for 2013, Mr Babic, for 2014, Mr Babic. DeZer, as one of the representatives of the European Union, has just seen the Agency and Oliver Dulic's ministry as one of the best in Serbia, one of the five that should not be shut down, and you did it in September 2012. Why? Because your waist, because young professional staffs don't work out for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23783	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23784	I don't know how Mr. Dulic was evaluated, was evaluated by the prosecution, after it filed charges against him and confirmed it, so we'll see the assessment of his work before the court, since he's obviously relieved of his budget. You know how, I just can't believe it, I believed that a respected colleague was a modern man. However, I see that he, a man, only advocates administrative socialism and absolute state employment. You're sorry now, and you've contributed to making such a state of society that really people can't even open anything or develop some economy, but the only purpose of it being for them when they graduate from college to go after the state's work. Then you say, there's gone 90,000 people in three years. Yes, it is! What do you expect the state to give them a job? Look, people of God, this is capitalism, self-government socialism has long failed. The fact that you've kept a fictional company that's fallen apart, which you've otherwise fined in these robbery privatisations and paid people a salary just to get somebody to work there and didn't actually do anything. Forget about that system. The state doesn't have any money anymore. You robbed her all the way. I want you to understand that something's changing. It's just that we want to develop a private sector and that we want to develop a entrepreneurial spirit, that when people graduate from college, they're not the only one in their head to get to the state administration. That's why these agencies were completely pointless. You destroyed the purpose of the ministry, the existence of the ministry. What were the departments for if we transferred everything to the agencies? You've even led to the fact that the director of the agency has a higher salary than the minister. Well, it's not a normal system. It's a decadent system, and it's a good thing this goes away once. I'm not saying, there are agencies that are needed. Someone here boasts, they've brought in 200 sublegal acts. So you should be ashamed of bringing in 200 sublegal acts. Because you deliberately created holes in the system and holes in the laws to bring sublaws and make yourself business combinations. You've ruined the state that way and you've been nagging us here! Instead of keeping your mouth shut, you should be ashamed of what you've done. You still have the courage to stand up and brag - we've brought 200 sublegal acts. I'd be ashamed to say that. So, indeed, I absolutely support the abolition of such agencies. They didn't serve anything except that your party personnel are hiring, so you can tell us how people work here! Look at how many private companies have been shut down in your time. You say to us now, "Yes, he is, and he is not doing anything now." Well, yeah, someone needs to pick up the system, which you've completely reversed. Well, I'm sorry that someone's trying to do something and that every project here that someone's trying to show that it might be good for you to make fun of. If you don't sell the Iron - you're not able to sell it, if we want to sell it, then we're traitors, right, because we're selling state resources. And you sold the whole for 21 million euros. And you're not ashamed to talk like that. I'm sorry, but this is how it has to react, for once in a while, that those people who have ruined our system put themselves in place, there you are, in opposition, stay in the shadows as long as you want, but let this country work and move on once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23785	Thank you. On what basis are you answering? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You will receive, but before you there is a replica of the People's MP Zoran Babic, and then you. Here you go. Based on the replicas of your presentation, he is in the system, registered before Mr Djukanovic, has the right to reply to Mr Bozovic's presentation, and then you have the right to reply to Mr Djukanovic's presentation. (Jovan Markovic, from place: May I say what this is about? I must respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic, I must respect the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Babic responded to Mr. Bozovic's presentation, he has the right to replication. When the exhibition is complete, then you have the right to replicate Mr Djukanovic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23786	Mr. Babic, I'm sorry, but I really do need to say, on the same basis that it now gives you the right to the replica, the chairman said three minutes ago that I don't have the right to reply. I wanted to apply, applied, according to the Rules of Procedure, you also didn't give me that right. Three times today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23787	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Bozovic mentioned Mr. Babic's name and is therefore entitled to a replica. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Ali and Mr. Babic to me. ) Before that, a circle of replicas was completed and you had no more basis. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: But I was mentioned. ) You must respect the Rules of Procedure and the interpretation of the chair. Mr. Babic, go ahead, sign in, and then you'll get your word, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad that this and this kind of controversy took place. It shows the fundamental difference between our policies. The policy we were able to hear earlier from Mr Bozovic, that the attitude towards young and smart views in a way that we will form a number of agencies where they will work. Do we have enough money and agencies to form to hire all young people in Serbia? No, we don't. But the concept of Mr Bozovic and DS was such that a sufficient number of agencies were formed to reconcile all party, godfather, cousin and those other personnel. The relationship and policy implemented by SNS is to provide young people with conditions to form their companies, to form their companies, to fight on the market, not only on the market in Serbia, but also on the European and world markets, to create and create one from Serbia, because I think we have both human and any other potential and capacity to create companies such as Facebook or many others, which only a few years ago started from a garage and now are companies worth billions. Because we do not want young people to camp working in the agency, because they know Mr. Bozovic or Babic, but that their creativity, their knowledge, with the help and support of the Serbian state, which will not give 500 000 euros for several billboards and one canvas on Pop Luka's street, will benefit young people from their ambitions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23789	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23790	To reduce the pressures that people in Serbia decide not only to school here, but to stay, to form their companies, to form a private sector, that private sector based on every stable and orderly society. That's the difference between our policies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23791	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Mr. Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of today's session and Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Bečić, the distinguished Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic and the distinguished guests and guests of the Ministry, it is necessary that I now advertise the injury of members of 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to ask the team two questions to the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic. Mr. Becic, as I ask you to explain to us, that whenever Mr. Babic answers the word, he has the right to even choose whether it is an amendment, whether it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, whether it is a replica, and that whenever we come from the opposition, we do not get the most often, not only to choose on what basis, but we do not get the right to speak here at all. Can you please explain to me whether it's in the spirit and in the letter of our Rules of Procedure? Another question, Mr. Becic, please explain here – how is the circle of replicas as is always said here always ending with Mr. Babic's speech? How come this doesn't happen once during our debates, Mr. Becic, that at least once in this session, during a debate on one point in the agenda, a round of replicas doesn't end with the speech of the opposition MP? Mr. Becic, there must be no more equal or equal here, any MP here, Mr. Becic, should be equal and equal. You have told me here once, Mr. Bečić, and when I prepare a book for you, to give a book to Mr. Babić, I have given a book, I also prepare for Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, but I must tell you, as soon as you assure me that you have read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly thoroughly, I bring a new book for you too. Please, the previous answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23793	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr Pavicevic, if you had thoroughly read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, your distinguished professors, you would have known first and if you had closely followed today's debate, you have seen how many times the opposition or opposition representative was entitled to replication. Mr. Pavicevic, and I respected it when someone was mentioned by name and last name to receive the right to replication. I cannot prevent you from mentioning Mr. Babic's name several times in your speech, as you usually do. Don't be so thrilled with his character and his work, so don't mention his name and name, and then he won't have Mr. Babic's right to replication. Also, I apologize to Mr. Michael Miletic for waiting an hour for him to get his word. Thus, Mr Pavicic's circle of replicas must be completed at some point. Why does it end up with Mr. Babic? Because Mr. Babic is getting a replica to expose someone from the opposition. When you get the right to replicate Mr. Babic for the first time, then the circle of replicas will end up on you. Mr. Pavicevic, when you first ask for a replica of Mr. Babic's presentation, where he mentions you in his presentation, the circle of replica ends on you. But when Mr. Babic gets the word and the right to replicate someone from your side, then surely the circle of replica ends on him. That if you follow closely, and I as chairman must and it is my duty to follow, that he who challenges the replica must circle the replicas to end up on whoever seeks the replica. When Mr. Babic, I repeat once again, he will challenge the replica you will also get right and the circle will end on you. Are you happy, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Can I have two more minutes? No, you won't be able to, except please read the Rules of Procedure again, dear professor. Would you like the Assembly to plead, Mr Pavicevic? Yeah. Mr. Markovic, I assume you want... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: First by the Rules of Procedure, then the replica. You can't do both. (Jovan Marković, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, to your presentation, and the replica to the previous exhibition. ) To my explanation now, Mr Pavicevic, how do you think you have a first injury to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23794	The Honorable Chairman, after your presentation, I felt the need to point out to you the violation of the 107 Rules of Procedure which speaks of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23795	You can't answer that again. Thank you. The word can only be obtained by the right to the replica. Do you want to? You have two minutes of replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23796	I will, of course. And why didn't I get a word in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23797	Because that member has already been invited by Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23798	Yes, but not on your exposure, but on your previous discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23799	Mr. Markovic, I don't want to replicate with you, so if you want a replica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23800	Dear Chairman, thank you for your right to the replica, although I really didn't understand why we always have a very bad treatment here on your part and your explanation was completely unclear to me. I think that Mr Babic deliberately potentiates a topic that is related to agencies that we do not have an answer to these objections, and that today he also discusses his colleagues about agencies, is precisely talking about this unpreparedness, the ignorance that is reflected in today's discussions on this topic. If we were to better analyze what we were saying, we just pointed out that agencies are the most responsible because we had both registers and a good relationship with citizens and a good service to 95% of the users. If we had a good analysis of what we were saying, we would have determined that the Government and the Ministry's proposal came from the 2012 data. So, as for registers and temporary permits and permanent permits and transportation, etc. It's a sentence where colleagues say that we've dug up and robbed... Please, if you can just calm them down after I'm distracted. I really don't think it's right for us to listen to this noise and tossing on the other side. So, sentences where MPs say we robbed and fined Serbia, sentences that say those agencies have been executed, are just talking about the destructive policy of this regime and this government. So, this kind of accusation that's being brought here is also being brought up in the media, to the institutions of this country and again, that this very atmosphere of fear, chase, the fight against political inexperience has led to nothing being done in this area and in all the other areas of this country in the last two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23801	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. There was no throwing in the O.R. except the noise in the O.R., but no one was throwing it to you. I also see you didn't listen very carefully to what I was saying. You have now given Mr. Babic a chance for a replica and also the possibility to complete a circle of replicas on it, because you have received a replica of Mr. Djukanovic's exposure and you have given Mr. Babic the opportunity for replication in the replication of Mr. Djukanovic. Normally, when you challenge the replica, the circle of replicas must end on Mr. Babic. I thank you, and before you get the right to the replica Mr. Babic, the right to the replica has Mr. Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23802	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, therefore, the replica of Mr Babic's exposure is, I'm going to have to use that right for the simple reason that we're constantly going back to those times that were behind us. Let's just look back for one year, and that's 2011. In 2011, two and a half billion foreign direct investments came to Serbia. How many young people got the job, I don't know, but what I do know is that in four years, and this is the fourth year of the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Mr. Alexander Vukic, she hasn't opened a single job. If you only remember your promises, if you don't get better in six months, this government will give up its chair. Well, in a year, then, 'cause we got in the fourth year. For the word we keep that last promise – 1 January 2016 we will live better. This is a message to young people in Serbia, Serbia's prime minister promised – 1 January 2016 that Serbia will be better. Then why did 90,000 of them leave Serbia from 2012 until today, because it's better? Because we trust Mr. Vulin to have a future here, there's hope? Velimir Ilic? How can I tell you, there's an impression in the public that some ministers absolutely don't do their jobs, don't get involved in their business. Young people in Serbia have nothing to ask when they hear a president who can't distinguish a social network from a phone book. This is Serbia where young people live today, and of course 90,000 have left Serbia in the last three years. I'm sorry about that, believe me. For this reason, I say that one of the best agencies in Serbia, the Chemicals Agency, had to stay in the system because they were doing professional and young staff. Someone just said it was a crazy agency. So, it's crazy that someone thought they could tie the future to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23803	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23804	I would ask Mr. Bozovic to at least avoid the swearings that are going on and now until the microphone is turned off. It's not good for parliamentary practice. I can even accept what Mr. Bozovic said earlier that this government did not open a single job, but we know that the government, which is now a little shadowy and was in power until 2012 that it lost 400,000 jobs. That this and such a law from 13% unemployment in 2008 brought to 20 and over 26% unemployment. You and such experts, and such agencies, what did young people do back then? What did young people whose parents lost their jobs do then? What else did they do? No perspective, no one, because you called Mr. Bozovic, because he was the only one who could hire them at some agency. Now to answer to Mr. Markovic, who so easily throws a glove in his face, because he is so easily offended, he says: Unprepared Messengers do not know. Here, I am now asking my fellow Members of the SNS, colleagues and colleagues, to appear from every local self-government, from you from Užica via Prokuplje, Nis, wherever you are, instead of building sanitary dumps, wastewater purifiers, you were giving out 500,000 euros in billboards, 25 million euros in the media campaign "Let's Clean Serbia", and see what you left? You'll see dozens and dozens of sanitary dumps, or dumps. The water that pours into West Morava, the fecal water that pours into West Morava from my Vranjačka Banja, and 12 kilometers downriver that same Tristenik drinks that same water, from that same West Morava and spreads your hands, but you knew you were giving 500,000 euros... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23805	Time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23806	... . instead of the cleaner you put in the billboard, Mr. Markovic, and that's what you're saying is right. It's not right, Mr. Markovic, and if not knowing that we're not going to have a billboard, I admit that I don't know, but we're going to build a country that will also have an ecological, at least as stable as it is, nothing happens overnight, but what you've been doing night and day and day, that you've been cleaning up the budgets and agencies and the government and the budgets of the Serbian government and the budgets of local self-government, and now I'm asking my colleagues to report and to say the problems you left behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23807	Thank you. Replica, Master Jovan Markovic, and thus closes the circle of replicas. The word will be Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23808	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Babic, I really think the most sincere thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23809	Mr. Markovic, do not address another MP, you do not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23810	I'm sorry. Indeed, honestly, I think that as a man who represents MPs in this house, you have both that kind of weight and that kind of obligation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23811	Mr. Markovic, you are speaking again to another MP. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23812	I don't want to explain myself anymore, I just want to explain. So, with my authority, here I am telling you, the chairman, to pass on to him, to influence the concept of how this society is going to develop, and I know that there's a lot of pressure on all of you when you've been campaigning for months around alleged agencies that are no good. But I'm also asking you to have this kind of responsibility, to say, yes, these agencies have worked well, this is a very serious area, it's about people's health and life, this agency needs to stay, this agency is offering security to institutions and people, and I'm fully prepared to respond to all of your callings, because I'm one of the people, and there have been a lot of them in the DS, I've been committed to working on all these projects that concern environmental and environmental environments, and I'm particularly connected to this subject, and I'm particularly proud of what we've done. It's not six or seven dumps, thousands of jobs that are open in the recycling industry, 15.5m euros, Mr. counterpart, not to mention, we left as a donation to the town of Uzic, that the system and the wastewater factory are being done, and two and a half years no one has done anything about it. When I ask the minister why it's not done, what's going on and what's going on, what's waiting, I get an answer to the charges that I should keep quiet about it. Well, that's not the system, and I'm just asking you to come out to the public with professional analysis and say you have the courage to make decisions that are important to these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23813	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23814	Mr. Chairman of Becic, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we MPs from the SPS, appeal and I will do so to return to what is on the agenda and to discuss amendments, on a proposal of this law that is now on the agenda. Here's more, an hour or two, we're only talking about the first amendment, and when it comes to this amendment, we don't support the proposed amendment, and we agree that the solution given in the law is supported and adopted. So there are too many stories here about what was the role of the chemical agency, which has been abolished, and of course, I won't underestimate the work of that agency and I won't do it, but in any case, we can't perform a certain kind of rationalization, if we keep increasing the state apparatus, through an increase in the number of agencies. On the other hand, I would agree with the assessment of one MP, I don't know who said that, but we've come up with the work of certain ministries, by transferring many of the department's intelligences to agencies, to some directorates, to some independent bodies, to some commissions, etc. I have no doubt in the capacity of the Ministry and here it is proposed in this article of the law that the minister will be in charge of environmental protection tasks, and will prescribe a series of biocidal products. Of course he won't do it himself. In particular, the respected Minister Bogosavljevic, but surely there is one team in that ministry that is competent and will deal with it in the same way, with the same quality and relationship as the Chemical Agency did, and that the whole process costs less than it cost when the Agency existed. By the way, I believe that so many agencies have been in the past, that it was real modernism and that it was really one convenience for a number of people who managed to hire agencies there as a legal person, and so much, etc. They certainly went to the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, with very high salaries. In those agencies there were paid more than the salaries of the MPs, and you know who they were, but not to talk about it, or even the salaries of ministers, etc. So I think that we should do one such reform and give the ministries the opportunity to function, in the right sense of that word, and that the quality of doing that job we're talking about here. By the way, in Article 2 of this Act, it is deleted – the fee that was the income of the Chemicals Agency. Whoever was paying that fee, it was one burden for whoever was paying, and there's one discharge that's very important and useful. So once again, I appeal on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to hear suggestions and arguments. But we have no reason to now expand the subject and talk, talking about the Chemical Agency, now and the Environment Fund and what was the effect of this work in the past, etc., of the “Ban Tower” and so on, and in fact, it's just one story for the sake of a political promotion that is barren and that doesn't make any sense. So, the SPS supports what the bill is and does not support this submitted amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23815	Thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23816	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, members of her team, respected fellow MPs, above all, I am appalled by this flood of discussion by opposition MPs who do not offer an answer to essential questions. And the essential question is, why was the area like the environmentalist used for robbery? I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues who are being addressed and who are calling for their assignment to the field of ecology and projects related to the dumps, the following -- are they familiar with the case of the dump in Prokuplje? Do they know what this is about and what happened? Here, I'll tell you, since I honestly don't expect an answer. In fact, construction of a dump in the municipality of Prokuplje has been planned and it has been achieved that the project has, in practice, been completed almost at the end of the administrative work. After that, when it was supposed to move on to the realization of a pre-stitched shaft, which would have been said in the jargon, so before any work was started, a man was appointed for just one day to be the director of an eco-fund of the municipal municipality. The money is transferred from the Republic and the money from that account goes to the Alpina company, which is in bankruptcy today, which was supposed to be the contractor of the dump. After that, money remains with the "Alpine" one longer time period and then under great pressure, primarily then opposition parties and the opposition SNS party, part of the money is returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget, but unfortunately part of the money remains forever in the bankruptcy fifreme and who knows everyone who knows who it is. That's why the whole story I'm listening to today by some opposition MPs, I can only characterise it as such a story that no one in this country can believe, and especially not citizens, because we're burned that everything that's been promised, that all that's been done, that all these noble ideas you're talking about today are being abused during the former government. What's also disappointing is that an area like environmentalism shouldn't be abused in that way and what I insist on and from you, Madam Minister, I ask you to carefully analyse this object of decomposition in the Cup, and I'll tell you one more thing that is also catastrophic. The municipality guaranteed 31 million dinars with their own bonds, which were not taken anywhere in the municipality of Prokuplje. It came to us now a month ago, two months ago, a call from the Ministry that that money should be returned because the dumps are gone, there's nothing. I ask you first of all because this is likely to get a court epilogue and because the citizens are both betrayed and let down absolutely our expectations that you take all of this seriously and that you pass it on to us at some of the next meetings and sessions that were done on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23817	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, I have the right to the replica. Who mentioned you, Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: He asked me to answer the question of what was in Prokuplje. ) Mr. Laketić, did you mention Mr. Markovic's name and name? (Darko Laketić, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković, according to the amendment. I'm asking you to come back and speak by amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Only then to point you to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't when someone gets the word, you can only after that. Thank you. I apologize, Mrs Stojiljkovic, Mr Blažić as authorized has the advantage over you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mr. Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23818	Thank you. I now have to comment on this amendment on this regret for the agencies, just to give some information that you have succeeded, gentlemen of the previous, former regime, to make 160 agencies, which is more than the European Union has. While you were opening agencies, closing down factories, closing down production, and when we pass through Serbia after your 12 years, we can see that you made from Serbia a Hiroshima, a burned country, in which all the halls are empty, in which there is no production, in which you have agencies and loaded offices, given by local self-governments or by the ministries. For example, by 2000, the Ministry of Environmental Protection had 64 employees and worked for work, and today there are about 400 employees at the Ministry of Environmental Protection. You have several times increased the number of administrations, and during that time you have closed factories and never cried for productive workers who after 20 or 30 years of working in these factories, making profit and income to this country and financing all those agencies, you have never thought of crying over the fate of those people who were out of work, while their factories were closing down. Now you've remembered that you're crying for some agencies that are only artificially designed to host your staff, not because they were essentially needed and only doubled the work of the ministries. I'll come back again to explain what the Chemical Agency had and how it was structurally designed. She had her own director, her two executive directors, one for chemicals and one for biocidal products, the international co-operation service, and the Eurointegration Service, and the Legal, Economic and Administrative Affairs Service, and eventually she had sectors, the chemical management sector, the chemical risk assessment sector, the chemical risk management sector, and the chemical risk management sector and the end of the register sector. It's all 38 people, someone was supposed to pay. You've closed down a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises so you can finance such and similar agencies. And don't talk about any success, that you've made some success. There's a wasteland behind you, an accident. What kind of dump are you talking about? Serbia has six regional dumps. In 12 years, you haven't been able to solve the waste problem. Saturday's been doing regional dumps for 10 years. In 10 years, you can build an entire city, not a dump. In this dump, 25m euros will be charged, 25m of the 100m that Serbia has received from the IPA fund. What are you talking about? Your minister and chairman of the trust's board have transferred 20 million to re-cultivate the old dump itself. I'm on my own, my own firm, my father's company and my brother's company. The fund served to transfer money from the fund to the ministry – 25m euros went for any billboards and any flyers and propaganda. In one procedure alone, a billion and 800 million were transferred, with one signature, the same person transferred from the fund to the ministry to be available. What are you talking about? People, when we pass through Serbia, we find behind you all over the garbage dumps along the rivers, along the bridges, polluted water, in the fields flying various plastics and all that goes to the ground. Which chemical agency you're talking about, when the awareness of chemicals hasn't been raised at all. Agricultural producers continue to use the same pesticides and throw them everywhere, as before. It's worse. The earth and water and air have been poisoned. You poisoned everyone. What more can you talk about? We found the wasteland that we have to, that cemetery, and all of it, to pick up and clean up the ground, so only when we clean it up can we hit the ground. It's broken morale and economy and not economy, everything. The earth is clocked below, at the bottom of the bottom, and now it's moving again to create a normal society. That's what we have to start with, creating a society, and now you're coming back and talking. Forget it and don't mention that time. Forget it ever existed. Forget everything if you think well of this Serbia and let us do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23819	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. Mr. Markovic, what is the basis of your report? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. To the presentation of the gentleman who spoke now before you? Where did he mention your name and last name or anything from your presentation? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, if you think when we mention that we have committed crimes... Just a moment, Mr. Markovic, you're authorized... Allow me, I'm asking you for the basis of your call. You are now saying that you are reporting as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group because you believe that Mr Blazic's exposure is being addressed to the DS. Is that right? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes. Here you go. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23820	Mr. Chairman, I'm really worried if after 15 hours of debate, both in principle and in this law, you can find out that I am an authorised representative. That every time you try to take away my time to discuss it, it's really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23821	Mr. Markovic, you are just taking up your time to discuss because you are explaining to me what I asked of you, which is your reason for the replica, do you consider yourself personally called, do you have the right to replication based on the mention of DS, on what my Rules of Procedure tells me to ask you what is the basis of your reporting, and you are now saying... Go back to your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23822	I'm telling you this because for the fifth or sixth time, and you and your colleagues are taking away my word, and you haven't essentially discussed the previous, or my announcement, and every time on this basis, I want to give you a replica and you won't let me do it. I have to tell you once that I'm an authorised representative and I'm worried if I have to say that after 15 hours of discussing these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23823	I know very well that you are an authorised representative, but you have also appeared on the basis of where your name is mentioned, and then you do not receive a replica based on an authorised representative, but on the fact that your name is mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. There's 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23824	I demand that after discussing the other MPs, and I see they've all arranged to report to me, I get the right to reply as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23825	You can't do it every time, because then in this session, no one could answer except you. We've got a lot of reports. Here you go. You've got ten seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23826	No, I'm asking for my time back and to speak for two minutes after the two of us had a discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23827	You have seven more seconds, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23828	So I'm just asking to speak to a colleague with the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23829	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Time's up. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23830	Thank you, Chairman. I'll stick to the amendment, too. So, for some time now, we've been talking about the Chemical Agency, or the problem that colleagues have been saying is that it's just been created by abolishing this agency. We can't agree on this. By abolishing the Chemicals Agency, no strategy has been abolished, no expertise has been abolished, no plans for the future of this area. Of course, only a complicated and increased bureaucratic apparatus has been lifted, and that is what the goal was and what it was working on. It just didn't come overnight as a decision. It's just that somewhere there's an impression that the previous government, instead of the ministry, was hiring professional people, was setting up only party personnel in the ministry, and then it had to set up agencies to introduce some professional person who could deal with it. As my colleague said, I just don't know what the departments were doing if it took so many people in the agencies to deal with the same area she had in power and the ministry. There was what this government wanted to avoid, that is, in 2012, the government, which is that more people deal with the same area in terms of intertwining their powers, and that was precisely the goal of abolishing the Agency. We certainly have information that all the professional people who have shown in this Chemicals Agency their expertise, who have proven it, have later taken over the ministry and are still working in the area so that in principle all praise for it. I would just look back at the previous 2004 Action Plan on the protection of the environment, which should continue to be implemented to keep the air clean, to keep the water, air and everything else in check, and I can say that we obviously got this strategy, specifically in Uzica, that we also have unhealthy drinking water after this action and that we have unhealthy air to breathe and that we have a dump whose body was filled up after a few years, that we have a dump that hasn't been removed, an old dump. What I'm saying is that, specifically in the water battery Vrutca by 2012, according to the government at the time, about 65 million dinars were invested, 30 million of them in the reconstruction of the dam itself, and 35 million for that system "clean Serbia". Thirty-five million, we all think it's too much because there's no sign of that cleaning anywhere. The question is, where's the trash taken? In any case, today the youth does volunteering, no one pays them for that action. People organize themselves, go away, clean up when they think there's a dump going on somewhere, and they're doing it in an organization with competent public enterprises, and in a deal where they're gonna dump that garbage later. As for the water accumulation of Vrutci itself, after this strategy we were left in Užica without drinking water and I believe that the whole of Serbia knows what was going on and thanks to this government we have again alternative supplies and now we will have a new factory thanks to the prime minister and the government. I would also like to say that, as far as the dump is concerned, the dump was invested, the dump in Uzic, the dump in Deep, it was known for a long time, we waited four years for its opening, 15m euros. Meanwhile, slides appeared because it was not well planned to build on what area, thus raising the deposit on the spikes. Everyone knows the spikes are slipping. It's clay land. Then millions invested in the recovery of that slide, so we waited four years for that dump to be opened, whose body, the body of the dump where the garbage was to be deposited, was not well planned, so here it is already full. It's already full of dumps today. What's very important to say is that even then while we were waiting for that opening, 15 people were already employed, 10 with a permanent working relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23831	Miss Stojiljkovic, you must return to the amendment. I can't let you talk. I didn't want to distract you and interrupt you, but you either have to talk about the amendment or you can't talk anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23832	Of course, according to the amendment, I say it cannot be accepted, because some of the next amendments apply to this agency. So, yes, the ministry has made a decision that the fund will return, but that it will have jurisdiction. As far as the Chemicals Agency is concerned, it has shown that the ministry can exercise that jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23833	Thank you, Mrs Stojiljkovic. I must warn the MPs that this is not a principle debate, that we are speaking now in particular, that the amendment is to Article 1. I can read it if you don't have an amendment in front of you. I will not allow anyone else to speak out of this amendment. I don't know why Mr. Markovic is standing there. Replication of exposure to whom? [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: Looking for either a replica or a breach of Rule 106]] (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mrs Stojiljkovic. ) Mrs Stojiljkovic mentioned neither DS nor you personally for one moment. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: If you think that what mentioned the previous power in Užica... Mr Markovicu, in the previous government, was not only DS. That's why you don't have a basis. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Then I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you a heads-up if you abuse the rules of procedure. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23834	Dear Chairman, I call on article 106. The Rules of Procedure, where the speaker is determined to stick to the agenda. If you punish me for hurting the Rules of Procedure, or point to that injury, then you should hear yourself say what you said in your first sentence when you spoke to my colleague. So I'm asking him to explain why that is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23835	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. You just said I warned my colleague she wasn't talking about the agenda. I also said in the next sentence that I won't let anyone speak out of the agenda and out of this amendment that's on the agenda, so you don't have the opportunity to explain. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and you don't have the opportunity to explain and use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to report for replication. Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23836	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, and above all the citizens of Serbia who need to hear everything we are talking about in today's debate, the amendment to Article 1 certainly and I also consider and support my colleague Ivana Stojiljkovic for everything she said, of course, should be rejected, above all that he is contrary to the Chemical Law which implies the abolition of the agency that previously existed. All competences that this agency has had are transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. This ministry will have a really difficult and difficult task, because very big problems have been inherited. The "Let's Clean Serbia" programme has really cleaned Serbia up. He also cleaned up my municipality of Ivanjic. Here, let me just say it for a second. My community doesn't even have a dump. She had one wild dump that didn't have any elements of the sanitary dump. Today it's a potential problem and a great danger to my community. There are many other unresolved problems, such as the problem of wastewater, we don't even have a transfer station. The problem I brought up in the principle debate, environmental pollution. So we ask another question - where are the money, where are the money invested in the programs, whether only in billboards or marketing? As you can see, we haven't solved the environmental issue in Serbia. The problems remain with this government, this ministry, and I support them all together to support that these laws and problems are slowly being started and solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23837	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. Mr. Markovic, if you don't have a Rules of Procedure, I'll be happy to give you a look. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I now explain the replica?]] Do you have the right to reply to Mrs Milosevic's presentation, you have never mentioned one, no party mentioned, and I think you're really exaggerating. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I explain in one sentence? You can't, Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23838	Thank you. Honorable Madam Minister with Associates, fellow MPs... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: The lady asked me a question. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23839	The Serbian Parliament today exists not only because of you, but because of 250 MPs and all 250 MPs have the opportunity and the right to speak about amendments, not only do you think that the Assembly is for you today and that only you speak. You are not authorized to explain the law to the government, Mr. Markovic, and you seem to be living in that role.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23840	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow MPs, agrees with my previous SNS speakers that this amendment should not be accepted. The reasons are numerous. I come from a municipality we talked about in the past. The town of Sabac could have been a disaster when it comes to environmental and environmental protection. I'm just going to look back on what the previous regime is, that is, in my city, still the DS regime and its satellites, what it does and how it protects, or preserves the environment. Only 200 metres from the centre of Šapca there is a dump that has reached the level of the fourth floor. Now it's supposed to have been transferred to that famous regional dump of Srem-Machva, but in the day, it's still garbage and garbage that's only after these floods and that sand that's been used in the fruit, three centimetres covered. I'd like to point out that near the source of our city's water supply, 50 meters from the spring spring springs of feces. All the surrounding places, the local communities have their wild dumps. I'm asking the local government, the council members at the SNS City Assembly talked about it on several occasions. Only in that dump when it rains is the glider towards the center and towards the settlement. It's Kamičak and Bair and Lower Shore. I would like to point out that one arrogant behavior of the local authorities and authorities of the previous regime at the republican level has led to all this. I truly believe that the MPs of the opposition without any right to rebel, without any right, suggest that this republican government is doing the wrong thing. I'm just asking a question - what kind of ecology did they create? What kind of environmental protection was done when millions of euros were spent on various campaigns, on various personal promotions, on various projects and on various billboards? Really, I don't think it's appropriate to talk about it, and as my colleague Djukanovic said, how can someone not be ashamed to talk about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23841	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23842	Dear Chairman, an hour ago, the head of the parliamentary group of one of the ruling coalition's parties called on his colleagues to talk about whatever they wanted. I thought you heard that, Mr. Vienna. So he invited them to talk about problems in their local self-government. Mr. Becicu, Article 107. The Rules of Procedure say MPs can talk about the point of the agenda that is under way. This is how they can speak at the session of the SNS's main board, but they can't speak in the Serbian Parliament. You are obliged to ensure that the agenda is talked about, to talk about the state of the environment as it is now and the proposals that the government has made to arrange some areas. There's no talking about it now. There are now some other topics being discussed because they are invited to do so in party discipline. You are the first among the equals, not the member of the SNS, today, to arrange and to introduce this session into some normal course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23843	Mr. Veseinovic, if you had been in the O.R., after you had just entered the O.R., you would have seen and heard that I had warned the MPs to speak about the subject, that I had broken the lines, that the MPs who spoke before you entered the O.R. were talking about the subject, about the amendment, why some amendment, in this case the amendment to Article 1, should not be accepted and in the beginning of the presentation, in the middle of the exhibition and at the end of the exhibition, mentioned the amendment that is on the agenda, and I have no opportunity not to allow them to speak. Since in the meantime, through arguments why this amendment should not be accepted said and mentioned its municipality, I cannot prevent it. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about the injury? Yeah. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23844	I find the law fully justified and that its adoption is necessary, and that the amendment to Article 1 is unacceptable, as all other amendments are to be submitted by opposition colleagues. Here, I'll tell you why. Since I came from Kruševec, the city where the DS ruled by 2012, and the city was one big dump. Fortunately, then comes the SNS to power at the head with our now Minister Bratislava Gasic, who brings back the old glare to our city. Unfortunately, the city was ruled by jaundice until then, it did not happen again. Otherwise, what I'm saying is, gentlemen who got the money for the Clean Serbia project used the money for the billboards, my city's roses, not just my city, but other Serbian cities. There was a dump in Kruševec, just one dump, call the dump, where there was no primary selection at the site of the waste. They didn't even build a recycling center that was necessary without talking about problems around Lake Cell at the time of the flood. That's why I don't think they have the right to make any arguments on these amendments, because they've had the chance and shown everything they know. What is one thing that is only positive in all of this is that Serbian citizens have recognised their quality and have successfully cleaned them from Serbia's political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23845	The word has a folk MP, Borislav Stefanovic, but since you are in Mr Markovic's room (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I thought you were reporting for the right replica, because the D.S. was mentioned, but then there's only Mr. Markovic's word. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23846	I've already seen that you want to hit us there. Art. 106th and 107th. Why? So, you have now heard the presentation of a colleague, who is also a doctor, who speaks for one political option that is infectious disease, a very dangerous infectious disease – jaundice. You didn't react. You had to react, in my opinion, to warn a doctor who mentions jaundice, and I don't know what jaundice is, unless it's an infectious disease. Maybe she thinks it's something else. On the side of the story that Kruševac has not been a dump since Bata Gasic got there and now all the things they're looking at in Krusevec say – well, it's very nice, we haven't had any trash since the advances came. I also told you about that rally. You are really at that rally, magnificent with the Styrofoam, really showed that you know how to collect all the garbage, and you do it all the time. Well done, but you can't allow, Mr. Chairman, with all due respect for your position, to have someone here say it a few times. Because they don't know what else to say, except until 2012, and now there's a contagious disease. I was just waiting for one of the many SNS doctors to end up accusing us of being sick again. There are other doctors here. I'm asking you to react, to say as far as, no matter what Mrs. Psychologist is, she's shown before that, when it comes to some people being psychiatrists, she's not responding, and now she's an epidemiologist and a virologist and everything else the advances are trying to do. Why are you letting me do this? What do you think will be the result of that? Nothing. Just a further void that you spill every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23847	As you have noticed, I have allowed you to complete the presentation, although in some parts of the exposure you have abused the Rules of Procedure. For what reason? Because there was noise in the O.R., and I didn't hear the previous speaker say that. I apologize, Mr. Stefanovic, in advance. So, I didn't hear him say that before. I'll look in the stenogram, if she repeats it, a warning will be given. I certainly wouldn't have let anything like that get mentioned if I'd heard Mrs. Barisic's statement. So, I'm going to look at the stenogram and next time I'm going to listen carefully to its exposure and if it's mentioned again, a warning will be given. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23848	Dear Vice President, Mr Becicu, the honourable minister, respected MPs, especially from opposition groups, respected Serbian citizens, of course I am not for this amendment, which my colleagues have proposed for several reasons. I'll only name three. One, he's not justified. Secondly, there is no valid reason for this amendment to be adopted. Third, it is not in accordance with the Chemical Act, nor with the decision to suspend the validity of the decision establishing the Chemicals Agency. Dear Vice-President, since a series of untruths has been presented, relating to the protection of the human environment, especially around spending, let me say that the former minister in the former government and member of the DS, and unfortunately also the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I quote, paid for the billboards with messages "Let's Clean Serbia" for more than half a million euros, completed the quote, the State Audit Institution Report. The same former minister, I quote, paid half a million euros for advertising in a daily list, completed a quote, and guess which list, the DRI Report. The same minister who was the minister for environmental and spatial planning in the former government, and a member of the DS, and unfortunately also the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I quote, paid 25,000 euros for the development of the Clean Serbia site, finished the quote. Fourthly, the same minister in the former government, and unfortunately the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I quote, paid for the support of the lioness on Palic, completed the quote, "Politika" on 23/09/2012, page seven. Finally, as much as the DS and its environmental ministers, the minister of spatial planning, I quote, 22 people from delegations were involved in certain destinations. I quote further, in 2009, 22 members of Dulic's delegation were in Copenhagen, Denmark, 11 days, completed a quote. That, in my opinion, is a record number in Serbia's history. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I cannot say how much they spent, because your head is going to hurt. Dear citizens of Serbia, I address you, they have cleaned up Serbia, but out of your pockets, so deep, that it will hardly be possible for any government to fill them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23849	Mr. Bozovicu, do you follow the amendment or the Rules of Procedure? (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23850	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. So, the shorttime speaker, Mr. Atlagic, talked about everything, but not the agenda point, and he also mentioned cleaning the pockets of Serbian citizens and you didn't warn him. Why did you have to remind him of the subject? Because someone was cleaning Serbia, and someone was cleaning pensioners' pockets, so we're not talking about it at all. When it comes to the portal, as the speaker said earlier, it was a robbery, which cost me no idea how many thousands of euros, Mr Atlagic, as well as the president of the Republic of Serbia, were not able to contact modern technologies. It was a portal where it was possible to locate a wild dump with a mobile phone, which is located and then enters the cleaning system. Thousands of dumps have been cleaned that way. That way, through the portal, which was shut down on the first day that this government came into power in 2012 and thus embezzled 25,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23851	Mr. Bozovicu, you are aware that you are violating the Rules of Procedure because you are using a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Mr. Becic, it is not right to interrupt me, but I thank you. ) Is it okay when you break the Rules of Procedure and use the Rules of Procedure for replication? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Why can't I say it? I've allowed a minute. It's enough to break the Rules of Procedure's time. Mr. Markovic, on what grounds? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23852	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, I wanted to return the discussion in the direction in which it may be necessary, to remind all MPs that it is a single amendment, the first amendment concerning the Biocidal Products Act, where we, as MPs and as an opposition party, have expressed our position, to think carefully and suggest that you remain the Agency on Chemicals, which once had good results, are present in the work of our institutions and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The discussion has opened, Mr. President, with great insults. Themes have been opened based on Mr Babic's orders that all MPs start talking about everything and everything but the agenda. I asked for a moment ago, and I asked you to respond to her accusations that she had directly called me, and you do not know that the construction of a dump in Uzic, which involves collecting 300 tonnes of waste a day from eight municipalities and two cities, was completed in record, Mr. Chairman, that the dump that was discussed was one of the greatest successes of the previous ministry and this government, which was assessed by the best grades and European institutions. A dump that is proud of Serbian and Western Serbian citizens. A deposit that should be an example of how such projects are done in partnership between the municipalities of the state and international institutions. You've opened discussions with re-indictions about people who aren't here, about people who can't answer you. You've restarted the subject of arrest, destruction, fear and so on and you're going back into some dark past that you're talking about all the time, and this topic is a common theme for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23853	I thank you for the replica. Thank you. I thank the MP for the replica, I understand it's a replica. Zoran Babic, a replica after you mentioned him directly that he had given the order to the MPs. What he had the right to, of course, give orders to his MPs, I don't see what's controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23854	Double arches, double standards, Madam President. Says your dear colleague, you've opened charges and you've opened a debate about people who aren't here. Turn around, Mr. Markovic, and look at Mr. Stefanovic, who earlier accused Bata Gasic, military minister. That's when it was okay. Then it was for applause, only because it's yours and because it suits you. People's SNS MPs don't talk about everything and everything, how someone in this room wanted to rest. They talk about life, they talk about facts, they talk about the problems of their local self-government, they talk about the problems of citizens who sent them to this National Assembly to represent them, they don't talk about your billboards about 500,000 euros, they don't talk about cleaning Serbia for 25m euros, they don't talk about things that have appeared on display, tablets of computers or mobile computers, so it's collected from one wild dump, so it's transferred to another wild dump. The recycling, the reduction of waste, the dumps remained in the last century, is now the point that from the dumps, from that waste taken out of each of our households and every industrial plant to reduce to the least possible extent, to recycle, to exploit what can be used. What you can't, whether it'll be burns, whether it'll be some other thing I don't want to talk about these technologies are different. Different concepts. You boast of what was left and lagged behind in the last century, and you prohibit SNS MPs from talking about the problems that were inherited because you were putting billboards of 500,000 euros and giving media campaigns and buying media attention. So who's the shame? On people...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23855	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23856	... who talk about the problems of their fellow citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23857	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23858	... Or those of you who gave up 500,000 euros on Pop Luka Street for a billboard.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23859	Time. Thank you. Why are you up now? I'm very surprised, I don't know what then chairing at all, if everyone's going to get up to get us out, take a break and... You can throw it away. It's just a vague gesture. Imagine now I turn off the light from the purest of peace. You can't, of course, so this isn't a tea shop, so let's talk about it. No, explain to me why you're up, not you, why you're both up now? Light Micin, about the amendment, please. I take this session too seriously, so we're not even... They laughed, but I can't make you say anything right now. You'll explain it to me, we'll have a break before the vote, so you'll explain it to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23860	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Madam Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find that the amendment is not acceptable, the abolition of the Chemicals Agency is not a problem, since the ministry has quite adequate people, adequate personnel who will assume the authority of the Chemicals Agency, but what I consider to be a problem, and that is an environmental problem in the populated town of Rumenka, next to the New Sad. On 14.7.2010, then Mayor Igor Pavlicic opened the beginning of works on the construction of works of wastewater purifiers in Romania, which is extremely important for this place and which allowed citizens of this place to live in the 21st century. However, about 220m dinars were to be provided for these jobs, out of which the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund was to provide 28m dinars. So, from 2010 to today, absolutely nothing has been transferred by the Capital Investment Fund. Even more, last year, the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund came out of the project completely, and the project was taken over by the City of Novi Sad and the City of Novi Sad. Since then, 6.8km of secondary sewerage network has been done and the purifier project is being completed, and everything headed by Mayor Milos Vučević. So we can't talk about the bigger environmental problem of eliminating the Chemicals Agency than these problems that citizens have on local self-government. This is one serious problem. Romanian citizens should have had a purifier a long time ago, and they have no thanks to someone spending 500,000 euros or 60 million dinars on billboards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23861	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23862	Thank you. I have an environmental problem, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23863	Yes, you can. Please explain why it is better to replace the chemical agency with the words “Minister in charge of environmental protection matters”, so please state the example you want, this is not prohibited. (Ivan Karic, from the place: I am not able to speak like that.) You can't, okay. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I speak? I just want to know how much time we have? You can if you want to talk about the amendment. Let me see how much time you got. Just ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23864	You know how, first of all, thank you for letting me speak at all. I just picked up the amendment, too, so I didn't get the word. Practice has shown that the competent Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection did not adequately respond to the needs of Serbian citizens when it abolished the chemical agency in 2012. It's an amendment and it's also part of our argument. For what? Ten thousand people we hired when it comes to the recycling industry in Serbia. Ten thousand jobs are open. None of the jobs since 2012 have been opened to this day, gentlemen of the SNS. Five thousand wild dumps were cleaned, seven regionals were made, 200,000 cc's of waste from nature. So someone's dirtying up Serbia, and someone's cleaning up Serbia, and someone's cleaning only pensioners' pockets. Now, that's a bad practice, and that's what DS is gonna get in the way and trust me on the word. We're still the opposition, but not for long. The Democratic Party will repay pensions to pensioners, pay salaries to employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23865	Thank you. I don't know what that has to do with protecting the environment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23866	It has something to do with everything, with young people in Serbia who can no longer...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23867	Thank you very much. We can go over that way of talking about the amendments, I don't mind. We know who the loser is and who the winner is in it. Thank you for reminding me, I hope you will support me when the agenda is set for one of the next sessions, to put in a report of the Environment Protection Committee with a point that will cover this matter completely and then we will be able to discuss and beyond the amendments. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23868	Here, let me join this discussion. The Social Democratic Party, when it comes to power, will pay back the salaries to those to whom it has taken away the SNS and will pay back the pensioners...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23869	Thank you very much. Do you want to talk about the amendment or shall we rally today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23870	... This is very important because it's a condition for a clean environment. Well...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23871	Yeah, I see that just some of my colleagues are screaming out of their wits, but I'd like to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23872	Dear Chairman, if the pensioners get their pensions you took away from them...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23873	You can talk on the free topic without a microphone. I'll listen to you, but we can't really spend the same money from those pensioners on what everyone's gonna say about what they want today at the session. You have to admit, that's a pretty important segment. You all want to speak on this amendment? The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23874	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister with colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I would simply like to return to the topic. I support this amendment, and I simply want to remind myself of something why the agency is and is formed, precisely to regulate the situation in the environment, to prevent the pollution of chemicals that are widely used and in households, and among other things, biocides on that list, and to remind me, in 2009, the agency was formed not by our means, namely, on the assets of 1.7m euros invested by Sweden, 1.5m euros has entered from the IPA Fund, and it was intended to form this agency, for training, equipment and for the testing of those samples that the inspection takes on the ground. So the basic goal was to get this area settled, and I would really like the MPs to understand that, that the citizens understand. It wasn't the idea for some party personnel to be employed there, because if they thought like that, then I'd wonder what the Traffic Safety Agency would do to us when the percentage of the road casualties increased? Now we have recently strengthened the Ports Agency, which is also financed by fees, and we have abolished this from the area of environmental protection. I'm afraid it's a complete misunderstanding, and that's why I'd like to ask my colleagues to come back on the subject, not to talk about our places, and just to look back, I'm using that time, to look back at my colleague's comments from New Sad. At this point Novi Sad has 1.005 dumps up to five cubic metres of volume and 31 large dumps, and at the latest reacts, i.e. the worst in terms of regional dumps. So I wouldn't take my city as a sample in any case because it's the worst of all children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23875	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23876	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, you know, someone has been swearing to European values for years, and then it's a fundamental order when you comment on a law, so, of course, amendments when you endure, to read what it says in the end - whether it's in line with some European rules, who took part in it, and here it's clearly written - that in the process of making the Biocidal Products Act, it has been co-operated with representatives of the Swedish Chemicals Agency and it has received the opinion that the text of the law is in line with those EU rules, and that the text of the law is adequate and that it balances between the requirements of the markets with biocidal products and the protection of human health and the environment in the use of the product. So what we're doing is absolutely consistent with some European rules that you swore to yesterday. Seeing as everything and everything is mentioned here, I'm just not the amendment, and I'm telling you all these pensions and salaries might not have been reduced if you hadn't introduced these pointless agencies because you've burdened the state's budget with desensitized bodies, and among other things, these many agencies where party personnel have been employed. Maybe today those salaries and pensions wouldn't cut. Now that you're talking to us here and you're spilling that demagogue that you're going to give someone back, try to create something sometimes, not just credits to take and buy votes by increasing your pensioners' salaries without any real basis. It is a shame and I would ask you, Madam Chairman, to react in the future because this is a violation of Parliament's dignity, among other things. Such disseminating demagogy and lying to people that without any real economic indicators and grounds you can raise wages and pensions, you can't because we've spent more than we've earned just as irresponsible behavior as two MPs just showed. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23877	What do you mean you're replicating? Who? Sit down. Really, I get it. I can't give you a replica. I really don't understand you as an MP. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: When asked, I need to get up and say. I can get up like that. You have no basis for replication. I'm sorry. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I have to sit? There's no business, I get up and you tell me. It's not my level of discussion that we're throwing ourselves at each other. If you have a wish for a meeting, I'm seriously saying that I'm at work every day, so come and we'll talk. We have on the conduct of the session and on the Rules of Procedure how you interpret him, how he interprets him as chairman. I'm very willing, not to burden the assembly. The rest of you are clear. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23878	The President-in-Office, I felt that it was really unnecessary for us to open such a big discussion after the first amendment that we had submitted, but I am ready to open the same discussion on the second because I am absolutely certain that what we present today as a proposal for the amendment is a fundamental difference in seeing the leadership of this ministry, i.e. solving problems in the field of environmental protection. We believe that the experience we have just had and indicators present in the functioning of the ministry in the past two and a half years is strong enough and good reason why we propose to strengthen the institutions, i.e. to return or terms – the agency or to introduce some other institution that will deal with such an important topic, i.e. important problems of our citizens, and we are absolutely sure that the experience that exists in the previous two and a half years in which the government has shown that the competent ministry does not take care of people, that it does not implement laws, that it does not work underlegal acts, that this is left to the verse, that you do not have an answer to all the problems that are happening in society, the very reason why the term should be returned – the agency, that is to establish institutions that will deal with these issues seriously. What is particularly imposed here as a kind of evidence is precisely the unpreparedness of the ministry, i.e. calling on the data that existed from 2012 when they were preparing this session and I want to believe that the agency, i.e. the involvement of professional people, is the way to solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23879	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23880	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. General, dear Minister, honourable Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, of course I am not for this amendment for several reasons. I'll tell you why he needs to be turned down. First, because it's not rational. I'll be very brief. Second, which is pointless. Third, it is not in line with the draft law, in line with the solutions of the Chemical Act, as well as with the Decision on the termination of the decision to set up the Chemicals Agency. What's interesting, and what one of the previous speakers gave me, is that when I quoted the State Auditing Institution that I wasn't exactly quoting. You know me very well, all the MPs of the opposition and the positions. I am really sticking to the fact of state institutions, and what Mr. Bozovic says is not true that I may have graduated from the third Belgrade high school, such as him, and was the worst student in the history of that high school, you might know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23881	Thank you. Members of the 10th Amendment were brought together by the MPs... (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica! Mr. Markovic, on what basis? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: The mention of colleagues from Bozovic in a very negative context. ) Mr. Markovicu, you are not Bozovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I am an authorised representative. No, you have no right. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Defamation has just been made at the expense of my colleague who is not present. Please, Markovic, he didn't call you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: But he did call my colleague and said he was the worst student in history.) There's nothing particularly offensive about it. Please, sit down. National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23882	And this amendment concerns the functioning of the entire system, the Chemical Agency, and it is related to the concept of a government that refers to functioning in this area. We believe that the results of the Agency, which existed from 2009 to 2012, is a strong enough reason for the Agency to remain on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the people involved in the agency confirmed by their professional work and dedicated work that they represented Serbian citizens in the best possible way. The evaluations of European institutions in the period 2010, 2011 and 2012 speak precisely about the ministry being on track. The estimates we received during that period and the results achieved in the ministry's work are just saying that the Ministry and that the citizens were on their way, too, say that the citizens had all kinds of protection, that 95% of the users of the services of the Ministry, the Agency and the funds were satisfied at the time. Large prospects have been opened for security to be introduced in the coming period. Two and a half years that prove that this government and this state are not taking care of citizens, two and a half years of missed results are just saying that this concept adopted today is a confirmation in fact of those decisions from 2012 on the abolition of the Agency and the Environment Fund. We believe that this proposal should be reconsidered so that the Agency remains in the membership of the institutions of this state and that you need to make a decision about it. Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23883	On what grounds? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Mr Atlagic mentioned me earlier. Mr. Bozovicu, we've already left. You had the right to a replica, and I would have given it to you if you were here, but you were too late. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city:Pravnik! ) Mr Bozovic, please, I will give you my word, but do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. Do you understand me, Mr. Bozovic? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I didn't hear you. So I'm asking you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you my word, but I'm warning you don't abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure as an institution to give you a replica. So it's about me hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23884	Thank you. Chairman, you have injured both members 106 and 107 and 108 and 109. I was outside the gym when Mr. Atlagic talked about my high school or the Third Belgrade High School, which is one of the most respected in Belgrade. I believe he doesn't even know where she is. I don't know which one he is and if he's finished...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23885	Mr. Bozovicu...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23886	Just let me finish, since it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23887	I won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23888	For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23889	Because now you're explaining the discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23890	No, I'm explaining the place where you didn't warn him, because you broke up... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23891	Mr. Bozovic, please, let's be collegiate. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I have a word? I'll give you my word, but now I've shut you down because I don't want to argue with you here and fight with you. You can't hear me, I can't hear you. So, I understand the meaning of your advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I can accept it, the first part, but every further story that Atlagic said is no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I finish? ) Therefore, you end the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but only on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and do not comment, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23892	May I comment on your violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) So while Mr. Atlagic said that the doctor spoke about my education, you did not warn him that he had spoken a series of lies and you did not warn him at that time. Was that so? Furthermore, do you feel that you have thus violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since Mr. Atlagic, as a representative of the Republika Srpska government, drove thousands of young people into war, and here he spoke of the education of another young man, you did not warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23893	Thank you. I'll answer to you for the part concerning the breach of the Rules of Procedure... People's MPs speak out loud. People's MPs, please! Mr. Bozovic, looks like I'm gonna have to really apply the measures. You, as MPs, are violating the Rules of Procedure by obtaining each other, which is prohibited and not allowed under the Rules of Procedure. As for advertising your injury to the Rules of Procedure, if you were here, I'd give you a replica. You weren't there and I couldn't give you a replica. You came here later to replicate, which according to the Rules of Procedure is wrong. You have to look for a replica of the moment that it happened, or if more of them appeared on that basis, then it's given in order. I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and you can plead in the day to vote on it. Are you asking us to come forward in the voting day? Yeah. ) So, in the day of voting, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23894	Thank you, Your Honor. And this article and the amendment that we have submitted again points to a difference in opinion and a completely different concept that we disagree with in policy-making regarding environmental protection. The very fact that since 2012 since September there is no register of biocidal products, there is no procedure, there is no possibility that citizens who are interested in this topic are given adequate answers and solutions, that nothing has been done since 2013 on the application of these laws, or the adoption of these laws that we are talking about today, that there is no responsibility for paint, paint and other resources that have been installed in buildings that have been badly done in the past two or three years, that there is no responsibility for not having an active role, that there is no data and measurement of air quality, there is no analysis of the measurement of the quality of surface water, land, etc., all of this data is precisely the fact that the concept that has been going on in these two and a half years should be changed. Also, the positive experiences that exist in the work of institutions in these two or three years, from 2009 to 2012, are the basis why we think this. Also, the positive experiences of many European countries that have similar institutions speak precisely about the fact that such an important area must have the involvement of important experts, that there is in some way coordination of all institutions through a certain level of work, whether it is an agency, a bureau, etc. We believe it was a binding role both for this ministry and for this government to step up. How could they make a decision that, following a mistake made to abolish the Environment Fund, they also made a decision on the establishment of an agency, i.e. the return of the agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23895	Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23896	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this amendment discusses fees and taxes. We believe that fees should remain in the system as a way of collecting revenue from implementing procedures to approve the placing of biocidal products on the Serbian market. In this case, biocidal products are mainly chemical, and can also be biological, which should at least destroy harmful organisms per person. If something destroys harmful organisms, then it can be harmful for a man, of course. For these reasons, great attention is paid to these products, and for their approval it is necessary to assess very much the documentation to be placed on the market and to prescribe the reduction measures, i.e. risk control when placing it on the market itself. This is what very professional people do as they practice in EU member states. The process itself for the destruction of harmful organisms must be effective, because it is a very serious need and for these reasons, EU regulations require countries to provide compensation for these jobs, which is in accordance with Article 80. EU, Regulation (EU) No 528/2012. By retaining compensation in the system, they shall be provided for the purpose of carrying out procedures to authorise the placing of biocidal products on the market of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the reasons for the withdrawal from the market. We have here, of course, this regulation that no one here has spoken of, because this law and amendments to the Biocidal Products Act are not in line with EU Regulation 528/2012, but are in line with the 1998 Directive, 98/8 and in which it does not write this in respect of fees. Unfortunately, since 1998 it has been 17 years and we are now in line with this directive, and we have a 2012 directive. I suppose that some subsequent amendments to the Biocidal Products Act will comply with this directive, I am sorry that we are wasting our time, and that we will again be right when we comply with this 2012 Directive, first of all, because we think that the Biocidal Products Act should have made a whole new one. And speaking of compliance with the EU, there is one more questionable data. It is said that apart from representatives of the Swedish Agency for which it is unknown when a number of EU countries' experts are consulted at seminars organised with the help of the EU Technical Assistance and Information Exchange Bureau, England's Taeks abbreviations and seminars organised under other projects. According to what can be found after 2012, there has been no such seminar, therefore, I would not like to use any harsh word, but at the very least this is prescribed from some previous explanation in agreeing with the EU, and it is unacceptable to mislead MPs and MPs by quoting something that was written in 2009, possibly in 2011 and calling for seminars that were not held after 2012. I'm talking to you, unfortunately, I don't want to blame you, probably this can't be your fault, but those who prepared the text for you, if I'm wrong, I'd like you to show me when and where that seminar was after 2012, and on what basis you're calling for the opinion of experts from the Taeks seminar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23897	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, this amendment is important for the simple reason that there is no control within the system and within the framework of the Ministry. The jurisdiction of the institutions is mixed. They're mixed up to the point where there's absolutely no order anymore. Why have we submitted this amendment? We submitted it for the simple reason that it would be wrong to share the competences of environmental inspections, sanitary inspections and market inspections. So this leads to inefficientness on the one hand and ineconomy in the case where one and the same agency would be in charge, a pardon inspection would be tasked with verifying and overseeing the same things and the same parts of the surveillance inspection, then different inspections in the same matter would be monitoring and thus increasing costs. So what you did somewhere bad in my sincere belief and deep faith proposed these amendments and additions to this law is that in this way, inefficient and uneconomically, we spend funds from the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are further underprivileged by the unconstitutional reduction of pensions and the reduction of salaries of public sector employees. So those who finance both you and us and work, at the end of these services, and these inspections, their money is spent in a non-transparent and non-economic way. We think it's really a turn to adopt this amendment for the simple reason that this would save the state budget bigger, not in a way that reduces pensions, first of all, unconstitutionally for those who actually earned those pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23899	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23900	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow ministers, respected fellow MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 13 of this Law, and it refers to the amendment of Article 50 of the existing law, which again refers to the supervision of the application of this law and the lists adopted on the basis of it, where it is said that the supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and inspection is carried out by the competent ministry and other ministries. In the light of why the amendments to this article took place, it is said that the exact obligations of all inspections have been defined. What we have submitted to the amendment, and what we felt is important to specify, refers to the final position of this member, where the inspections of Article 2 are said to cooperate with each other, i.e. informing each other about entrepreneurs, exchange information, provide direct assistance and take joint measures and activities relevant for the conduct of surveillance. Now the most significant, and the agency also provides information about the results and I find the inspections carried out. Since the agency has been abolished in the draft amending the law, that part has been deleted. We felt, precisely because someone would do the unification of the activities and the work of these inspections, because I say the reason why these changes occurred was precisely stated that there was no synchronization and because they were not exactly defined inspection obligations. So we have proposed in the amendment that, instead of the deleted sentence, "the Agency is supplied with information" the addition of a sentence "and to the Ministry of Environmental Protection all information on the results of inspections carried out". We have proposed that, for this to be precisely defined, everything the agency has done so far in terms of the pooling of information from the inspectors is now being conducted by the ministry, i.e. that it is well known that it refers to the Ministry of Environment even though it is here talking about inspections from four different areas, meaning, environment, sanitary inspection, veterinary and market. That was why we suggested it, and we think it was completely too much since this work of the agency that brought it all together had now become lost and this would remain unspeakable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23901	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23902	Only as a follow-up, practically a previous member, since the existing law in Article 50a has defined that the ministries referred to in Article 50(2) of this Law educate the common body to carry out inspection tasks in accordance with the rules governing the state administration, the work of the joint body shall be carried out by the Agency. As I say again, as a consequence of the Agency's suspension, it appears that there is still a commitment to this body, we felt again for the same reason that the Ministry of Environmental Protection must be the one to coordinate the work of this joint working body. Unfortunately, I repeat again, because of my completely wrong move to abolish the agency as a professional institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23903	The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marijaović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marijanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marijanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23904	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, dear fellow ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there have been enough of our comments. I think through this discussion we have shown in fact that we have a completely different view of the ruling regime. We tried despite the great accusations and pressures that existed in this room, very unwarranted to point out that the concept that we represented in the previous period, gave the results that we had built seven regional dumps, that we had thousands and thousands of tons of waste that we moved, that we had a plan, that we had a vision, that we had a gathering of critical mass and professional public and even citizens on that concept to work in the direction of solving environmental issues. We felt that there was enough wisdom here to resist all the pressures in some way and to give answers through expertise and knowledge, related to this subject. Given that this was not the objective of the ruling regime, given that you will probably adopt the laws as you have already planned, we want to remain in that position, that a great opportunity has been missed today to correct the mistakes you have made for two and a half years, which confirm and prove that two and a half years of Serbian citizens have not had any support and protection in this area, that you have been merely trying to hunt witches, to pressure the public and the people who have done something and done something in this country, in fact show that you do not know where and in which direction you solve these problems. Unfortunately, we are sure that in some future period, as you return the topic of environmental protection, you will be obliged to return some of the institutions that will deal with these issues, because it is simply unacceptable for Serbian citizens to have no protection of the state during the major disasters, or Serbian citizens have no answer to the question – who is responsible for many events, where they are missed, it is unacceptable and it will surely have to be settled during some period. Our appeal and call was, it doesn't have to be an agency, let's find another time, and you had a theme about the past, you had accusations, in any case, unjust to the people who did something in this country. The discussions that were conducted here on this subject spoke precisely about the degree of ignorance of the problem and how many MPs gave themselves the right to talk about things they didn't know about. I suggest that once again in this discussion, perhaps the minister will take part and answer the question we asked, because I don't know if we have any more time on this subject or if it's just an amendment, we might open up in the final discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23905	Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23906	I'm sorry, Your Honor, it's a little different, I don't know if my order is different, it's probably different, it's just a number of amendments. In this amendment, we have proposed that Article 26 be deleted in accordance, not to repair, to say, this bill, but in accordance with what we represent in this debate both in principle and in particular. We continue to feel that in the law-making process, the draft law-makers should also submit a proposal for sublegal regulations, so that MPs can gain insight into the solutions passed from law to sublegal acts, or return them to the promoter to arrange them outside the reach of the National Assembly. That's not good, we said it was a practice of all these 25 years, and it's probably never been a law with sublaws, and it's not a lack of this law, but we should all work together and that in the next period of time, these laws come with as much and as possible with all sublaws, regulations, that we don't transfer some kind of activity to the government, to keep everything possible, legislative activities in the power of the Assembly. It is common that the solutions made by sublaws are very often changed, since they do not have to come to the Assembly, thus causing system instability, and in its importance for individuals and businesses, should be an integral part of the discussion on laws. This is not just a lack of these laws, but obviously all previous laws. It would be good if, in line with the preparations for EU entry, which we all seek, the sooner we start using both new ways and in communication of work in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23907	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23908	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 26, which reads - the regulations adopted under this law will be adopted within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. The point of the amendment is that within three months, we suggest that it be reduced to 30 days. We believe that the deadline we propose from 30 days is more appropriate, given the scope and content of the amendments and additions to this law, as well as the fact that the amendments and additions to this law, the consequences of amendments and additions to the laws which have been abolished, that is to say, stopped the work of the Chemicals Agency, which happened on 29 September 2012, and that it has been a long time since then. The amendment with the same content we had to the previous law, but then I didn't want to answer, because there was a very bile debate between the position and the opposition. I would just like to remind this opportunity that on 25 June 2013, this Assembly adopted, in a very similar way, the National Assembly Resolution on Legislative Policy, which has committed itself to full respect for hierarchy and mutual compliance with the rules, among other obligations and the adoption of an example of good practice in the area of the legislative process, and we know that in Europe it is a practice for sublegal acts to be prepared together with the laws. In addition, it is intended, as an obligation, to establish, in the course of the draft laws, the preparation and sublegislative acts, the draft sublegislative acts, and to propose them in accordance with the draft law, or, if that is not possible, the obligation to give reasons for this, as well as the obligation to apply the basic guidelines for the production of those sublaws. So, ladies and gentlemen, most of us voted for this, for this resolution, and now that we're calling on all the other reasons, we're trampling on what we've pushed the button for ourselves and voting for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23909	On what basis are you calling Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23910	We filed an amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23911	But you weren't there to explain your amendment, and on this amendment you're not a bearer and you don't have the time available.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23912	In the same text...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23913	I'm sorry, Mr. Pavicevic, I can't go back. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Here you go. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23914	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, a respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, we also foresee that article 27 is being changed and that this law comes into force following the adoption of the sublaws provided for in this bill. I'm here in something different from my fellow MPs. You can see that we have some different amendments on the same members, and that's a democratic right within our group that we don't always agree, and that we can, let me say, debate and talk about some legal proposals. We have one interesting thing here in the impact analysis and in determining the problems the law needs to solve. It is said that, I quote, the basic Biocidal Products Act continues to be the authority responsible for the handling of a defined Chemicals Agency, a formal legal problem in the implementation of the same law, etc., so the urgency is partly justified by this. However, it has not appeared, it has appeared for three years since the Chemical Law was amended, and has not been amended and in line with the Biocidal Products Act. Practically, this gap has been going on for two and a half years or three years since the amendment of the Chemical Law, and we really don't see why all these deadlines are crucial now, is it the same day, is it eight days from now if it says the law to be published in the “Official Messenger” eight days after adoption in the National Assembly. Since this discrepancies has been going on for two and a half years, eight days will not have a significant impact and we think that it should have taken account of both 2012 and bring these two amendments into line, since the Biocidal Products Act has been treated for two and a half years by the Chemicals Agency, which does not exist for the same two and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23915	Thank you. On the 27th amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo, together MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić, together with the MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavić. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23916	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister with fellow Members of the People, is the last member, member of the 27th, in which we propose that instead of taking effect the next day since the publication in the "Official Messenger", we propose that the word "eighth day" be given to Article 151. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are laid down to provide an explanation for the reasons why the regulation is proposed to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Trying to present the reasons for the early entry into force, the amendment and supplementation of the Biocidal Products Act states, I quote - the basic reason why it is proposed that this law enters into force the next day from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" is the need to ensure continuity in the functioning of the biocidal product management system, as well as the legal framework for the change of competence in this area. We have heard from the previous speaker, from his colleague Karic that for two and a half years it has not been in force, that is, the law has been practically abolished, so we see no reason why the legal obligation to enter into force on the eighth day since the day of publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23917	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of today's session, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, respected Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, a respected guest from the ministry, I see that some dissent over our debate here and about this amendment and respected guests from the ministry, I do not understand why such a kind of mood, especially when it comes to Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic's view that the contents of this amendment have been signed by all MPs of the opposition in this National Assembly. Dear gentlemen, this is not a common situation here. We have some different approaches, but I think the explanation and argument that stands in the essence of this amendment, signed by all MPs of the opposition, also needs something to suggest. My impression is respected, gentlemen, above all Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, that unless you accept this amendment, as well as this previous one on Articles 26 and 21 and 22. The chemical law, that it would reveal a kind of inconsistency, ineffectiveness and the will of this government. You will be Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic in my court to join this group of ministers who act inconsistencies in relation to what is also contained and the procedure of the laws that are being adopted here, you will show one ineffectiveness and self-will. I believe, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the Government is like this, let us not be messengers of the people to be like this. Let's focus on consistency, on efficiency here when the law is passed and above all on the preservation of the rule of law instead of the self-will promoted by this executive power, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23919	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Life Centres You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Ivan Karić, Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanović Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23920	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in Article 1 amending Article 6, to say we only intervened in the sense that in the time established by the adopted project documentation, or by the decision of the competent authority on probationary work, the reasoning I have read, the reasoning of the Government and the Ministry, in principle, has nothing to be disputed. The desire of our proposal in this amendment was to distinguish processes that, which may take more than 240 days of trial work and to allow some more complex, more complex production processes to monitor and what is needed for the IPPC license and for more than 240 days, so that it is not always green that prevents industry and that prevents the development of how very often we are characterized here. The draft amending and supplementing the law sets out the test work for a maximum period of 240 days. You'll agree that for some manufacturing processes, maybe this trial work could be longer, and let me say, we also have some disagreement with Article 157. The law on planning and building where it says that trial work can last for the longest year. It's the investor's obligation to follow the test results. We did not want to spoil any changes and the proposal to amend this Law on Integrated Prevention and Contaminant Control, and here we need to point out that we should consider transposing in the industrial pollution sector under the new Industrial Emissions Directive and the 2010/75 EU Industrial Emissions Directive, not just the 2008/1 Directive of the European Community on integrated environmental pollution prevention and control. Otherwise, this area is very complex and there are major problems. Only 10 permits have been issued, and this brings us to a problem that we may not be able to meet all these deadlines by 2020. It may, by transposing both of these directives, prevent industry from investing in the best available technologies that can be very quickly out of these "bat techniques", because they will be out of line with the 2010/75 Industrial Emissions Directive. This can further complicate Serbia's position during the negotiations, so that we must extend some deadlines further. What was interesting for us throughout this debate, we proposed that an integrated permit should cover all previous permits, enter the beginning of the project line, and that the investor also thinks immediately about "bat techniques", the best available techniques, but that the water permit, the construction permit for waste management, integrates all these needs. Of course, it couldn't be solved only by this law, it requires intervention in some other laws. In this way, we would place an integrated permit evenly at the beginning of the project line of all production facilities for the future. Here we think it was necessary to offer a whole new law again. We understand that there are problems that should be overcome, but also the law transposing the IPPS Directive from 2008, but also the law transposing the directive to these industrial emissions from 2010. I'm really afraid that at this rate, with such high and demanding IPPS licenses, we won't be able to meet the deadline in 2020. And the Croatian deadline has been moved to 2018, because she too had problems with that deadline, but probably they will not be able to meet it in 2018 either. We need to train both the administration and see if we are missing anything else and whether the Assembly can help with the realisation or implementation of these legal proposals, so that we can make the permits faster, so that we can control large industrial plants. Because, indeed, in the area of large industrial plants, we have big problems with environmental protection. Therefore, it would be good if as soon as possible, and when we have the opportunity to transpose, to transpose all European directives at once, and in this way round the process, and to really bring our industry and the people who are just going to invest in the industry to warn and to enable them in time to comply with new standards, so as not to mislead them and perhaps end them, so to speak, some "bat techniques" or put them out of force, and then put them into trouble because they invested in the best available technologies, unfortunately, which, if I may say, have expired the deadline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23921	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23922	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable minister and associates, only a few words specifically related to this amendment. I highly respect "Green" for green Serbia, but I think it's either misunderstanding or something else. When it was a principle debate, I, speaking of amendments and additions to the Law, pointed out and now I repeat – the most important law in the field of environmental protection is the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental protection. Why? Because it aims to prevent, not heal, by establishing the conditions that operators must meet, and only then can it get permission to work. What's the point of amending the law? There's two key ones. One is when it comes to new operators, who can't start working until they get permission and the other is, existing, who are obliged to adapt their activities through one programme of measures to do so by 2020. Now, that very first amendment applies to these new operators. The amendment submitted here says that the law wants to extend or regulate probationary work. The law does not deal with the practice of the facility, at least not this proposed law. That's what one other law does. Here was the government's goal, not to engage in what kind of trial work would be, when the trial work was completed to get an additional 240 days until it was granted permission to work on the facility, under two conditions. One of the conditions is that tests show that, when it comes to environmental protection, they are within the set of measures and the other is to meet those technical conditions through a technical review. I think it's an extremely correct proposal. Why? Because only when the facility completes the test work can it request permission for integrated prevention, so-called. An integrated authorisation. But at the same time, it could mean he'd have to stop working until he got that license. In order not to get into that situation, and it costs an economical amount, the promoter or the Government said – they can continue to work after the trial work, so they do not define the trial work but also after the trial work, up to 240 days, if the conditions are met in terms of measures and protection of the environment and if they meet the technical conditions or use a permit. We simply need to understand why this amendment should not be accepted. So, I repeat, the law does not deal with trial work, nor defines the question. It only gives the possibility that, as much as the other law has established the probationary work, it can continue to work under these two conditions for up to 240 days. I think the absolutely bill is correct and gives us the opportunity to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23923	Mr. Karic, I assume you want to talk about the amendment? (Ivan Karic, from the place: Yes. Well, then I must give my word to Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23924	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution is in some way the crown of all our efforts, i.e. trying to discuss the Law on Chemicals and Biocidal Products in principle in these few days, and ultimately to state where the country, the ministry, the conduct of institutions, etc. is going to work. I fully respect the ministry's intensities that only one member is changing this law, respecting all circumstances, although we have not received answers in the reasons of the law by the minister, not in this debate whether all the conditions are met, or whether Serbian citizens, the institutions of Serbia are protected in the application of this law, having, above all, the possibility of some foreign companies being better organised, that some conditions which today cannot comply with in the EU are precisely in this 240-day, eight-month, or another six months of probationary work, i.e. do not comply with the laws under which they operate or work in the EU. So these are some dilemmas that are related to our statement under this law, but since there is no open discussion in the right way and we do not have time to talk about the amendment, I appreciate that there is a good intention and that perhaps in regulations and sublaws you will remove any kind of doubt, that there is no problem in functioning between business entities in Serbia, or domestic businessmen, in relation to so-called. foreign investors. What we have left with the dilemma, we are fully aware that in this debate that has lasted, where 21 members of the Chemical Law are being amended, 26 members of the Biocidal Products Act remain a dilemma and we have not received answers to key questions - is the state of Serbia under this model that promotes, that is, after the adoption of this law, management, that is, whether Serbian citizens have the protection they need from the institutions of this state? Will we have adequate control of the quality of water, air, land? Will the action plans, which we have talked about so many times, be realized in the next period? Will the state of Serbia be sure that the ministry responsible for solving these problems will adequately respond to all EU requirements? In the coming period, will we have opportunities, strength, and wisdom to resolve issues that are important to the citizens? We are from a discussion, or debate that has been conducted these days, especially from a discussion that has been led today on amendments, which is absolutely certain that you, a respected minister, do not have support and that you will not have adequate talkers in state institutions on this issue. Also, we believe that you have a good intention, but a discussion that always returns to the past, a discussion that deals with issues that are past, especially if the discussion is without arguments, which is aimed at in some way bringing down what people before you have done, does not bring solutions or contribute to anything. We are absolutely certain that, in a very short period, this Assembly will reopen these topics, that you will have to open these proposals, that is to say, to discuss these proposals that we have referred to in this debate under these laws. I am also absolutely sure that the concept adopted earlier will come back on the agenda. I believe there are a lot of institutions, that there are many people in Serbia who want seriously and professionally and committed to this topic. Today’s debate in this congregation is about these people waiting for their new chance, she will surely come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23925	The word has the People's MP Ivan Karic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23926	Thank you. Just for a little while. Some of the objections I raised in the principle debate were about what my previous colleague was saying, but today, there were no such issues in the debate on this amendment. I was just saying that these 240 days, perhaps for some facilities, it should be extended for a longer period, since the complexity of the facility or because of the complexity of the documentation or the extent of the documentation requires more time after the trial work more than 240, and perhaps again some objects can be prepared after the trial work and for less than 240 days for an integrated permit. Indeed, I think the big problem is that of 166 requests from a total of 196 plants, we only have 10 integrated permits, that we have to find ways to overcome this problem as quickly as possible and to issue as many real permits as possible so that people can work better and faster and more economically, on the one hand, and that citizens have cleaner air, given that of the eight agglomerations in one of the seven air agglomeration reports is in the third category, meaning, in the worst category of air quality. We should train our industry and also the largest polluters to overcome these problems as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-10-0.u23927	Thank you. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The Minister just wanted to thank you for your constructive discussion, which I will do on her behalf, for the business provisions. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Tuesday 10 March 2015, starting at 17.15 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 160 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – two abstentions – there are no, four of the 166 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ivan Karic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 168 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 172 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ivan Karic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 22nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo, together the MPs Marko Djurisić, Dr Janko Vesenović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Ivan Karić, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blažje Bradić and together the MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – five abstentions – there are no, two of the 173 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – three abstentions – there are no, two out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, three out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 168 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 173 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobdan Homen and Blaže Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 27th amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo, together MPs Marko Djurisić, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobdan Homen and Blagoje Bradić, and joint MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 169 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 169 against – six abstentions – there are none, none who have not voted from the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force less than eight days from the date of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – three, abstention – one, four of the 176 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167, v – six, abstention – one, two of the 176 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobdan Homen and Blagoja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobdan Homen and Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. As we now need to decide on the proposals for a law on the approval of international agreements, I remind you that, under Article 105, paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote on these bill proposals as a whole. With that in mind, I would like to put to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on co-operation in the veterinary field, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, against – no one, with abstention – two, voted two out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic and National Algerian Republic in the area of animal health, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, no one, abstentioned – one, voted five out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on the co-operation of the area of plant quarantine and plant protection, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving to agenda nine. I am voting on the Assembly list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education, with amendments from 26 January 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – five abstentions – there are no, two out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has made a decision to elect members of the National Council for Higher Education. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the National Higher Education Council in the election and to wish them success in their work. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary on 14 November 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted four out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary on 11 December 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167, no one, abstentioned – one, voted six out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary on 26 December 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, no one, abstentioned – one, voted five of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Serbian Progressive Party on 18 December 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group on 22 December 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group on 29 December 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – two abstentions – 12 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group on 6 February 2015, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I am putting to the vote the motion to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZS, ZS, 23 February 2015, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES MEMBER STATES I am putting forward a motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party Group on 2 March 2015, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 3 March 2015, at 15 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - four abstentions - has voted 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 3 March 2015, at 15 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no, 147 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 3 March 2015, at 16 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 138 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 3 March 2015, at 16 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - two abstentions - has voted 135 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 5 March 2015, at 10 o'clock and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 87 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 133 of the 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Dr Janko Veselinović, at a session on 5 March 2015, at 14 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, has voted 128 of the total attendance of the 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 10 March 2015, at 13 hours and 17 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - two abstentions - has voted 129 of the total presence of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that you are not injured by those members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 10 March 2015, at 14 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - five abstentions - has voted 124 of the total of 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 10 March 2015, at 16 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106, 107, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - four abstentions - has voted on 125 of the total of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that you are not injured by those members of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
