ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45695	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 62 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic and Mladen Grujic. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to work, I ask you to honor the late MP Milan Koraq with a moment of silence. May it be his eternal glory! We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. Meanwhile, I was informed by MP Dusan Bajatovic that he will not be sitting here today justifiably. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as well as its associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received amendments to the Parliaments of the AP Vojvodina and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Parliament Speaker of the AP Vojvodina Assembly is also here with us as a proposing representative. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture Forestry and Water Management, as well as from the Government. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45696	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable President of the Vojvodina Assembly with his associates, as you may know, we suggest that we delete this entire law. We believe that it is harmful for farmers, that only the selected businessmen close to the SNS will benefit from it, that farmers, or 10 to 15 thousand families living on the leases of state agricultural land, will be deprived of the right to rent that land, that they will be entitled to buy only the worst quality land, that these land that they can buy will be small, and that the government intends to allow the selected businesses, etc. investors, to buy a third of the land in every municipality in the AP Vojvodina. We hope that by the end of today's debate we will be able to convince the MPs that this law should be rejected by this Assembly. We hope we can convince you to withdraw this law. I'm sorry that many colleagues weren't here on Friday to talk to the farmers, hear what they have to say, because what they might hear from them would probably convince them to vote against this law or vote for this amendment. Because, among other things, farmers told us that those papers, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, whom you are waving to us here and telling us that this is some proof that it has been negotiated with farmers, that on these papers, and we have received them in the meantime, says that the agreement of all the associations of farmers and the joint conclusion that it is not being leased for 30 years by the most fertile agricultural land in every municipality in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45697	To inform you that, with the president of the Parliament of the AP, Mr. Istvan Pastor, Mr. Branislav Bogorovski is present today in front of a representative of the proposed amendments from the AP Vojvodina. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45698	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the amendment not to be accepted. This argument, I think, shows unequivocally that there is no real understanding of the matter that is proposed here. That, unfortunately, is not the only lack of this amendment. After all we've heard, this will unfortunately be another attempt to, in the total number of members, listen again for two minutes to a principle debate that has nothing to do with individual members of the law, which is possible under the Rules of Procedure, but you know that such an approach absolutely does not support and I consider it a kind of banalization in consummating an uncontestable right to submit amendments. That's not controversial, but the approach is absolutely inadequate. I also disagree with the proposal to reject the law in general, because it foresees more good things. Among others, some of these things aren't even contained in this argument we've just heard. So, if something is disputed, please suggest that this is potentially controversial and in a certain way regulated, not that everything is rejected, and what is undeniably good. If we're going to listen to the two-minute principle debates, I call on all the amendments that intend to do so to explain to us, say, what's wrong with introducing a modern geo-information system? That would be really good to hear. I'm not sure we'll hear what's wrong with that, and until we hear it, I believe there's no understanding here. So not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45699	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45700	I thank you, dear President of the Assembly. I propose to my fellow Members that this amendment should not be accepted, precisely because I think specifically of this law, that the law is better than the previous law, that we give this law the possibility that it can be invested in agriculture throughout Serbia, which in all Serbia, the south and southeast of Serbia has the possibility of bringing investors and the possibility that one who wants to deal with livestock can have a advantage over others. I don't think we accept this amendment because it's very important for all of us in Southeast Serbia and in all of Serbia that the law enters into force, that agricultural producers, small landowners, can work, take the land for rent, and then buy the country later. This law defines that land cannot be bought by a foreign citizen. I think this law will make a contribution to Southeast Serbia to make agriculture a better way, to invest in land, and later I hope that we will have the opportunity to get more into the problem of resolving cohesion, but I suggest that we do not accept this amendment because I think the law is good for the southeast of Serbia and is much better than the previous Law on State Land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45701	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45702	Dear President, I propose that this amendment be rejected because it does not say anything in itself, it says, "is deleted", and in that part "is deleted" we already have a great experience for these years and a half here in the National Assembly that nothing stands behind it. A good, professional, constructive work is behind the amendment and addition of the Law on Agricultural Land. The law is done thoroughly. The law of many corrections and shortcomings of the previous law has made in every respect, and I cannot understand that if it considers that, with full respect for all agricultural producers that we are doing this and that we have done these changes and because we are, in fact, the target group of our agricultural producers in the Republic of Serbia, and foreign investors are also welcome, as well as in all areas, and in agriculture. We cannot take the opinion of usurpators who were also present on Friday with colleagues from opposition parties, who are on the list of land usurper in the area of the AP Vojvodina legitimate, to be identified as such, we cannot take their opinion into account that they are giving to this law. So it suits them as much as it does -- that's better and let's leave it the way it was. Unfortunately, he can't. Order must be imposed and this law introduces the issue of state agricultural land. As order is introduced, the law is investment and developmental. I suggest that this amendment be rejected once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45703	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a committee on Saturday. I would like the amendment's proposalor to come to the board and defend its amendment. None of the promoters, except SVM, from the ruling coalition showed up at that meeting. The Autonomous province was represented by Mr. Bogorski. What did the Proposer suggest to delete? Article 1(2) — agricultural land is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia which is used for agricultural production and cannot be used for other purposes except in cases and under the conditions laid down by this law. So the promoter suggested that this be deleted. Maybe they're used to it, and we're witnessing that this "of general interest" is of its own interest. Maybe that's why the promoter asked to delete it. Perhaps their friends and former party finances, perhaps the financial directors of their parties, I had to bring a vest today most likely, perhaps they want to be erased and this land for agricultural production of interest to the Republic of Serbia, well of general interest, is good of their interest. In the follow-up session, I will present countless evidences that it was so, and, for God's sake, some evidence is already in the drawer. Therefore, I suggest that this amendment be rejected because I think the proposer proposed it without being fully aware of what he really suggested. I cannot believe that someone suggested that "agricultural land is good for the general interest of the Republic of Serbia used for agricultural production" to erase it from the bill. So, I believe that the MPs, and I assure them that I am not doing bad things, that I have been engaged in this law since this year, that the law has been written by farmers' associations: "Spas" Kraljevo, Association of milk producers of Serbia, "Banatski parori", Association of cattle breeders Shabac, Association of dairy producers of Vojvodina, Association of fruit growers of Leskovac, Association of Serbia, Union of agricultural producers of Sremska Mitrovica and that famous association of farmers of Mr. Kiša from Sutotica, who eventually gave up his own proposal and turned against what was in the course of law making and himself, and we hope that, gentlemen from the Ministry of Agriculture and their guests and fellow Members, my colleagues, will prove it. I suggest that we don't waste too much time, move on to a faster pace, adopt a good and quality law. I hope that in the same quality and good way he will be implemented and that we will not have cases that have happened to us, and these days we are witnessing that because of the uptake of land many responsible persons, and Mrs. Gođevac from the Land Administration knows it, is located on the other side of the lock, I believe that this law will prevent all kinds of usurpations that have been known so far and will be developmental. With that in mind, I have to warn my colleagues that the intensity of this law is that we no longer import, like last year, 708,000 pigs, or 348,540 pieces of live pigs, we imported more than we exported last year and imported 18,726 tonnes of pig meat, which gives 300,000 tolls in Serbia, Milos and Karadjordje, and last year 708,000 more pigs were imported into meat and live pigs than we exported. So it's a shame for Serbia and we have to put an end to that kind of shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45705	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45706	The President-in-Office of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would certainly suggest that such an amendment be not accepted. Why? Because Article 1 paragraph 2 is a key point of view which assumes that the situation in this area, which has so far enabled chaos, a chaotic state, major abuses, usurpation. Further, large areas were unprocessed. This kind of attitude actually assumes a really different system of work in the use of agricultural land and a position that says that agricultural land is good of general interest for the Republic of Serbia which is used for agricultural production and cannot be used for other purposes is actually the attitude or provision of a law that can't really bother anyone, anyone who cares about improving things and fixing things in the area of agricultural production. So by erasing this attitude, it would mean undoing many other assumptions that should be settled by this law. I'm saying, this is a key moment and a stale moment and an attitude that assumes what we want to achieve by this law. So to conclude once again, this amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45707	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45708	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is evident that in the last few decades we have been knowingly or unconsciously destroying our agriculture. We're all saying that agriculture is our future, that it's something that can help Serbia get out of these difficult times, but I think we're trying hard enough for both of us to do it. I think the opposition is in a much better position because it is her job to criticise and improve what the position suggests. But, frankly, can you improve something if you just propose amendments that say - it is deleted. When we took the oath here, we all swore an oath and promised to do everything in the interest of the Serbian citizens. How something can be in the interest of Serbian citizens if each other is an amendment – it is deleted. I expect you to contribute through concrete proposals. If it's not a good member of this bill, make a suggestion on what you're supposed to look like, and we'll try to find a solution together. Is there any law to be made that will be tailored to all citizens of Serbia? Well, of course not, but if the vast majority of Serbian citizens accept that law, we assume it's good. I'm one of the MPs who followed these protests in front of the Assembly. To be honest, there were hundreds of citizens there, I don't even know if they're all farmers. If only a hundred citizens are unhappy with this law, you can't say that the law is really wrong, and that is why I hope for today's day that we are doing it isn't possible, but I hope for the future that there will be concrete proposals on how to fix a legal solution, rather than just -- delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45709	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45710	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests, I did not take part in the debate in principle because here are really people who are extremely professional as Mr. Novakovic, Mr. Risticevic, Mr. Milija who gave the right picture of the need for one of these laws. However, as someone who comes from the city, i.e. from the municipality where the protests of farmers were organized and as someone who had close contact with farmers on a daily basis, i.e. I also received a delegation from the mayor of Zrenjan's delegation of those who staged the protests two weeks ago. In these talks, I can only notice that the requirements of this amendment are exactly the same as the demands of farmers with the fact that there was another member, which is the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture. All this tells me is that it is not about any desire to correct the law or to show concern for agricultural producers, but it is an attempt to destabilise the Serbian government. This is a political action and therefore such amendments should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45711	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45712	Thank you. I would point out something that I think is crucial here when it comes to this amendment, it's about devising something that is the foundation of the law. If it is a definition of agricultural land as good of general interest, then that definition is something which is both the basic principle and the basic principle on which the full structure of this law rests. By eradicating this article, everything that the law seeks to achieve is depreciated, which is to protect agricultural land, to clearly systemise and normify as is the obligation of the promoter in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the needs of those to which this law applies, in order to finally make those lands that are completely parkable and which are completely dysfunctional or dysfunctional back to that function that citizens need, and to those citizens to which they are agricultural producers. Therefore, devising the law itself by eradicating this article is absolutely unacceptable and therefore the amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45713	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45714	Thank you. The honourable MPs have already given a lot of answers on the amendments proposed, and I would just like to add that the proposal for this law defines agricultural land as well of general interest, that it is in accordance with the Constitution and with Article 87. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that the law determines natural wealth as good of general interest. In doing so, I also want to apostrophe the Law on Public Property, which also lists natural resources that can be good of general interest and among these natural resources is agricultural land. So this proposal, in the context of the first article of the Amendments and the addition of the Law, is fully in line with the Constitution and with other relevant laws and gives us the opportunity to continue to do this area in accordance with all relevant laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45715	Thank you. Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45716	President-in-Office, Minister, representatives of the AP Vojvodina, with which the amendment has already been discussed, we too have an amendment, in Article 1. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land is amended by heading 2 and our position 2 which we are changing should be read in paragraph 3 which becomes heading 4 after the word "owner" is added to the words "or the tenant". So we're not just thinking about the owner here, we're thinking about the tenant. The amendment stipulates that not only owners of the existing legal solution but also farmers of agricultural land cannot be foreign natural or legal persons. The law stipulates that only domestic farmers can own the country. We are talking about some legal solutions that may come to foreign investors if they take the country in the arena for 30 years to become the owners of the country, so we added that and the tenants, because the law is still determined that foreigners cannot be the owners of agricultural land in our country but can be tenants. But with this lease, they will, because the law does not predict it and perhaps some sublegal act will predict it, they can eventually as tenants become owners of agricultural land. The law provides that agricultural land is well of general interest but this should be introduced in a referendum in the Constitution, because this Association Agreement of 1 September 2017 will allow foreigners to buy the country. Other EU countries that have joined the constitution have determined that foreigners cannot own their agricultural land, or some good that is of general interest, and we here think of agricultural land. So that LSV collected 100,000 signatures and predicted that, after holding the referendum in the Constitution, the provision was introduced that after accession, after 1 September 2017, foreigners could not be the owners of our agricultural land, but they could be tenants by this law, but in those 30 years, they would eventually become owners.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45717	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45718	Here, this is an example of how some legal proposal is given a solution that may or may not improve that legal solution. I think this is how all MPs should behave, whether the amendment is accepted or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45719	Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45720	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I was not a minor in 2008 and I believe the party represented by the lady was then actively involved in the adoption of the SAA. Not only in adoption, but in its creation. It is an international agreement with 27 EU members. As regards international agreements and the composition of international agreements, parts of international agreements, it is not possible to hold a referendum and this is most likely to be explained by Mr Martinovic as a lawyer in the follow-up session. So, someone who actively adopted the SAA, created it, participated in its creation, is now collecting signatures to knock down the same SAA that can only be shot down if it agrees to 27, and perhaps 28 now, because Croatia has joined, an EU member. The SAA simply wiped out Serbian agriculture, and was brought in because of tycoons that did not own only Serbia, but to trample Serbia, they had to first manage political parties that mainly wrote the SAA and participated in its writing and adoption. Why do I say that? Because the most useful part is the imported tycoon lobby, because the SAA, and as signed, has not signed any EU accession members. So, he was too early to allow excessive liberalisation, and before we joined the European market, eight years earlier he set out the full liberalisation of imports of agricultural food products. It simply cleaned our food and agricultural production. The biggest benefit was the importers who imported the so-called so-called imports. "sacred waste, edible waste" and as they call it, Serbia has become a cafilarium. Instead of farms and slaughterhouses, we left people out of work, philosophy – better introduced than produced; it simply emptyed slaughterhouses and farms, but Serbia was finished becoming a cafilarium. In return, other financialists of the same political parties have exported huge quantities of corn for other people's cattle, for other people's slaughterhouses, for other people's workers to receive wages and for our workers to be out of work. Such an SAA was not signed by anyone, except by Serbia who did it in a way that I already described, that eight years before EU entry, it would completely take off its customs duties. The second part of the SAA that allowed the sale of real estate, and hence the land is even more outrageous because no country that has joined the EU has allowed it before joining the EU. Usually seven, ten, 12 years after joining the EU. They also did so on behalf of the owners, the real owners of their political parties who thought that they were the owners of our fates, that they were the owners of the fate of the people, that the people were ordinary slaves and without any rights, that they were the owners of the state, thought they were God and the beating, and then the people broke down the film, and instead of beatings to kill God in them, they took ballots and decided that they no longer rule this country. They asked to enter the SAA too soon for real estate sales, that what they took with privatisation for 50m euros bought 300,000 hectares of land today worth three billion, so that they could sell it as soon as possible, and it was necessary to enter such a provision as early as 2017, and could have happened before if it hadn't been for Lithuania, which late ratified the agreement, as soon as possible to sell the land. The horse rides whoever has it and the land can sell whoever has it, and the interest of the heads of these political parties was to sell it as soon as possible. Here I have a contract, where the parcels of one party's financial director are, I can't mention the name because I didn't bring a vest, they changed 1,200 acres of land "Agro Union" small parcels of 0.1, 0.2, hectares 0.3, jars, bushes, etc. They traded in for the most fertile, most attractive locations by the highway. It was done by Minister Sasa Dragin and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Here are the evidence that most likely deals with some services that are far more qualified than I am and I hope that will result in the same findings that are in this paper. So the land of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh classes, small parcels, masts and bushes have been changed, private ones taken by state side of the highway are the most attractive, where three hectares have been sold for 700,000 euros. So that's what they did, we don't think of doing it, and this law is trying to prevent it, and it's almost amazing that the proposer who took part in the creation of that SAA that has full philosophy -- better introduced than produced -- is now asking for a referendum to bring down what they signed, what they created. It's just hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45721	The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45722	What they signed didn't exactly believe, because the MP who talked about this was in 2008, when we did, he was there, too, and his party was where it was being signed. Secondly, I want to say that the SAA is not an amen, that's why we've just started doing this before 2017, when it will already come into effect, to change this by 2017, so we've started doing it before, about this referendum. The second thing I'm saying is, the SAA isn't an amen. So all countries negotiate before the entry into force in their countries. Why can Kosovo be negotiated and the country, agricultural land cannot be negotiated? Why is that now? Something can be discussed before the SAA can discuss and negotiate with the EU, and something cannot. It can't only be negotiated on agricultural land and Vojvodina, for instance. So that's why we started doing this earlier to agree with the EU on what to do and how to do it before September 1st 2017. That's why there's time. The people of Vojvodina will certainly show that they are against this sale of their agricultural land, that of their national treasure, and I believe that they will also support it by other citizens in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45723	I'm sorry, I didn't ask, was this a replica? (Olena Papuga, from the place: Yes. ) The word is Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45724	I was hoping my esteemed colleague was following up on the political scene. In 2008, the U.S. The People's Shooting Party was unfortunately not in parliament. Unfortunately, she didn't ask herself anything, unfortunately she didn't write this kind of SAA. If she'd written it, she wouldn't have been like this. And if we had written it, we wouldn't have hypocritically asked for a referendum a few years later if it had changed. I claim that by article 107 and 108. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I say, my colleague Martinovic knows better, international agreements and the SAA is an international agreement with 27 EU members, cannot be changed without their approval, or without the consent of all members, and our Constitution also says that international agreements cannot be struck by a referendum. I understand the need for a political campaign, that local regional elections, I count fear of results, fear of change of government, but I ask – how are pitches of 0.036 acres, that is three acres, eight acres, nine acres, 17 acres, 26 acres, 45 acres, 14 aari, 74 ara, 10 ara, 38 aari, 15 aari, 15 aari, 15 aari, 37 aari, 17 aari, those parcels I spoke about, I can say and what are the numbers of pitch 3203; 322; 8542; 8542; 8552; 8562; 856/2; etc. It's a large list of parcels that were in Agro Union, so somebody's godfather's property. I can't mention the name. You already know about the incident. So, I don't want to put myself in danger, replaced by the most attractive plots by the highway. So someone who worked for the benefit of certain tycoons, etc., someone who worked against the general interest, worked for the benefit of his own interest and his friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45725	Thanks, time. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, there are a few things here that need very clear attention. First of all, I am amazed at the hypocrisy of DS and LSV, and their lamentation over the fate of farmers in Serbia, and above all by farmers in Vojvodina. As for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as Mr Marijan Risticevic said, it is not signed between the Republic of Serbia and the EU, it is signed between the Republic of Serbia and each EU member. As the Serbian parliament had to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, since it is an international contract, it was done by the parliament of each EU member state. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia right behind the Constitution, international agreements have been confirmed by law. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirmed the SAA as an international contract and what LSV is talking about today, what the DS is saying, it is a mere deception of Serbian citizens. You, gentlemen, in the process of negotiating the content of the SAA, should have installed safeguard clauses, not only when it comes to Serbian agriculture, but also when it comes to other branches of the Serbian economy. You didn't do it then. Just to remind the citizens of Serbia, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed on 29 April 2008. The 11 May 2008 elections were held in the Republic of Serbia, and the only reason why the quick application, without any protection clauses, signed by the famous SAA, was to give wind to the back, above all, to the then DS and Boris Tadic, so that they would collect political capital and say to the Serbian citizens -- here, we signed the SAA, we are the only party that can introduce Serbia into the EU. Now it's over. Now you can't do anything, because the negotiating chapters are open. That's what you, as the EU's fire advocates, should know. The state of Serbia is a candidate for EU membership, negotiating chapters have been opened, the SAA has been ratified. The Republic of Serbia is now in an international legal context, a very delicate situation. Now those who lecture us on what we needed to do and how we were supposed to do with agricultural land were supposed to think about it in 2007 and 2008. As for who voted and who didn't vote for the SAA, I am a living witness who voted and who didn't vote for the SAA. I was not a SNS MP at the time, I was not an MP or an MP or a representative group of forwards Serbia, but neither did the Progressive Group of Serbia vote in favour of the SAA. You can check that in the stenographic notes, in the records from the National Assembly. One of the reasons, one of the reasons for the split into the SRS, was whether or not to vote for the SAA. The then unique SRS suffered a large number of so-called SRS. Interpretative amendments to the proposal for a law confirming the SAA, that all those members of the SAA, which mention Kosovo and Metohija, are interpreted as being treated as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. It was a deal within the parliamentary group. When votes were to be cast, a decision was made by the president of the SRS not to vote. In the end, the SSP was not voted by radical MPs or forwarder MPs. The SP was voted by DS MPs, and in that euphoria of Bozidar Djelic, let's go, let's go, everyone in the EU, waved a pen signed by the SAA, LSV, etc. Now, as far as this lamentation is concerned, some evil and corrupt foreigners are going to buy agricultural land, Mrs. Papuga, so they've already bought it. And that's what they bought during your government. You should ask Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic, Mirko Cvetkovic, and your party boss, why they allowed agricultural land to be purchased in Serbia from 2001 to 2012, although it was contrary to the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Privatisation. Who allowed numerous Croatian companies to become owners, not only of Serbian agricultural industrial brands, not only of Serb agricultural combinations, but of agricultural land? I gave you only one in a series of examples, where the Office for the Immobilization Catastrophe registered as the owner, not as the user, as the owner of the company from Croatia in 2009, when the President of the Republic was Boris Tadic, when the Prime Minister of Vojvodina was the same, Bojan Pajtic, the Duke of Heterland. Then in 2009, over 2,000 hectares of land in the municipality of Odzac, in the village of Ratkova, you entered the company "Zito Group" from Osijek. The formal paper owner was Marko Pipunic, and the real owner against whom he was then conducted for war crimes against Serbs in Osijek was Branimir Glavas. Two thousand ten years ago, the same Branimir Glavas was legally convicted of crimes against Serbs. His company bought a combination in Ratkov and 2013 hectares of the country in 2009. Why didn't you then ask yourself how this was possible and who sold the Croatians the land in Vojvodina that you are now so heartily defending. From 2000 to 2012 you ruined not only Serbian agriculture, Serbian foreign trade, foreign trade deficit with Croatia, 195 Croatian companies are present on the Serbian market and only 12 in Croatian. All Serbian agricultural brands purchased by Emil Tedeski, Ivica Todorovic, and several other Croatian businessmen. All of you, and all of you, at the time of your government, DS, LSV, etc. What else did the Croats do? Here's what's done, Miss Jerkov. When EU sanctions were imposed, i.e. when the EU imposed sanctions on Russia, and Russia responded to countermeasures, Croatian agriculture and the Croatian food industry were in a major problem, "Podravka", "Belje", PIK Vrbovac, they can no longer directly import into Russia, but Croats are present on the Russian market. How? Well, by allowing them to do so, by selling them Serbian agricultural combinations, by selling them "Frikom", "Diamant", "Smoki", "Sokostark", and these products are present today on the Serbian market, and they are owned by Croatian companies, and Croatia has embellished both Serbia and the Russian Federation by side to enter the Russian market, because Croatians as old Latin foxes have come to their senses, and they have not changed the names of Serbian brands. It never occurred to anyone to change the name Smokey, the chocolate girl, "Frickom" ice cream. And they are now there on the Russian market, as Serbian products, and owners of people from Zagreb. Now you DS and the LSV league are teaching us how to protect the interests of spring farmers. You who could not gather 100 Protestants in front of the Serbian Parliament, with all province MPs, secretaries, party heads, Sasa Radulovic, etc. Who do you represent? Whose leaders are you? Whose country are you defending? You who sold black under the fingernails, when it comes to the Serbian economy. There's nothing left for us, so now that we're trying to sell something, what do we sell? What do we sell out in the country where you sold it all out? In which you sold out what under the Constitution and by law couldn't sell out, agricultural land. I expect the police to react, to respond to prosecutors and courts, to process those who have allowed foreign companies to register as owners of agricultural land, regardless of which countries they come from. And in doing so, in this unholy business of buying Serbian agricultural land and having fingers and people from the former regime. Therefore, the SNS does not accept that the lessons on the protection of Serbian agriculture are held by those destroyed by Serbian agriculture, who literally handed it over to the hands or domestic tycoons, or to Croatian tycoons, or to some third tycoons, only did not give it to those they were supposed to give it to, Serbian farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45727	Thank you. Here you go. It's just, I have to delete the list for the violations of the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Komic, Snezana Bogosavljevic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Milan Novakovic, Olena Papuga are on the list, remember to give the injury to the Rules of Procedure. I have to delete you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45728	Thank you, Madam President. I am advocating Article 106 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1 says that the speaker can only answer the point of the agenda under investigation. If the previous speaker spoke of an amendment that is on the agenda, here, I will now step out of this room and will not return to an extraordinary parliamentary election. Just because you're pretending not to hear and looking at that screen, and I'm always suggesting that he's not talking about the subject, that's just not my problem. I only hope that soon these extraordinary parliamentary elections and that this shameful session of the National Assembly will go down in history. I'm not asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45729	Thank you for complimenting this on the shameful conduct of the session. What I'm looking at in the screen, I'm looking at who I'm going to give my word to, but I don't want to justify myself to someone who's never run the parliament sessions, so he doesn't know what it looks like. I'm sorry. But I accept everything you said about me. That's even a compliment to me. Minister, come in. You wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45730	I just wanted to point out what this amendment requires. This amendment requires that the term of the tenant is added to the basic text of the bill, therefore, that the owner or tenant of the agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person. A term is added to the tenant in order to protect the possible possibility of a foreign legal person becoming the owner of agricultural land in Serbia. In doing so, I would like to say that we have clearly identified by proposing this law in Article 8 who can be a tenant for both natural and legal persons. When it comes to natural persons, in order for a particular person to appear and participate in a public tender for renting land, he must own his own land. The minimum is 0.5 hectares. For legal persons, it's a minimum of 10 hectares in that catastrian municipality where public competition is being held. So, we have made this proposal clear by law that the tenant cannot be a foreign legal person as proposed by the Proposer of this amendment. I want to refer to fellow MPs who spoke about the SAA agreement and that we are doing nothing to negotiate this agreement. I think that MP Martinovic, as an excellent lawyer, well explained the position in which Serbia is now, but despite these minimum possibilities, the Serbian government and the ministry are really talking and negotiating and hoping to move forward, i.e. to extend the time limit for starting, i.e. to give the possibility that foreign tenants can also buy land in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45731	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45732	Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45734	Thank you. The only thing Mr. Martinovic said to me is that he remained consistent. He was also when the adopted SAA said it was the wind in the back of the DS. He also said that the SNS was created as wind in the back of the DS, and the SSP was so bad that the SNS was made exclusively for that reason to support itself. But, as I said, it's not an SAA topic. The moment you show us where the SAA says that under non-transparent conditions some commission that we don't even know the criteria can give 30% of the land to the chosen tycoon, then we'll agree to discuss the SAA. Until you show us where this is written in the SAA, the SAA is not a topic. The theme here today is that you intend to adopt a law that makes up some people's commission based on some investment plan to be able to give up to 30% of the land in each municipality, leaving 10 to 15 thousand families, farmers, so 50 to 70,000 people without income. It's a topic today, and we can talk about it today. You're talking about some kind of privatisation. You saw in the principle debate that 95% of the combinations were sold according to a report by the Anti-Corruption Council by 2008. The Democratic Party broke up these privatisations, made them green... Companies, which you now give to your Arab friends, which the SNS gives to its friends. So, let's not talk about the SAA. Let's talk about you giving 30% of the land to some people today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45735	Time. Thank you. Olena, just tell me – replica or discussion? (Olena Papuga, from the place: I was mentioned. ) We will give the first word to Olena Papugi to answer your first presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45736	I don't know if it's that easy to change your mind or what, I don't know what it's about, is it now defending the attitude that the SAA is bad? That's what I'm asking, I'm not saying who, I'm not going to mention the name, as my name was mentioned, but I'm saying that chapters 11 and 12, the opening of these chapters is the opportunity to talk about them, these topics, and chapters 11 and 12 are just about this part about agriculture, etc. So, by opening these chapters, these are opportunities for the SAA to change, to talk and negotiate, such as the now-opened chapter on Kosovo, and to discuss, what, not to repeat it again. That way we can also negotiate and talk with the EU chapters 11 and 12. Secondly, you say that all the land, the land of the state, is sold. That's not true. There's still 460,000 acres of state land left. That state land, mostly located in Vojvodina, will be sold. So, don't talk about the state land being sold and the land being gone, that we sold everything to the Croats. That's not true. I'm coming from The Tower, I've already said that. In Sivc, half a year ago, you sold 4.270 hectares to a Serbian-Arab company. So let's not speak unilaterally. We're sticking to this amendment of ours again. We are against the issue of agricultural land to a foreigner and to a leaser. So, even strangers can't be rented land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45737	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45738	I thought I'd pick up, Mrs. Gojkovic, within the line, but I'm afraid it won't be enough for two minutes, so if you'll let me talk within the framework of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45739	You want to get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45740	I have to, because what my distinguished colleagues have brought out of the former regime's party requires a little more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45741	All right, then, according to the amendment, by the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45742	Thank you. As far as the SAA is concerned, the SAA is poorly negotiated and that is the essence of the problems facing the Republic of Serbia. It is not a matter of whether it is for or against the SAA, the SAA is one of the stages of joining each EU country and there is no dilemma that the SAA should have been signed. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was to be introduced, if you want what you are saying, by appropriate safeguard clauses, i.e. some transitional time period of five or ten years, in order for the Serbian legal adaptation to what is said in the SAA. The problem is that you did not do it, or whoever negotiated on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, which was Bozidar Djelic, it was Boris Tadic. They've been misnegotiated by the SAA. As for the comments on how and why the SNS was created, I must repeat, Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic were also for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. During the summer of 2008, the SRS hired a number of experts for international public law, which helped us to write so-called. Interpreting, interpretative amendments to a whole series of members of the SAA, which mentions KIM and in which we MPs interpret these members so that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. So both Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic were for the Stabilisation Association Agreement and for the SAA vote. At one point, Vojislav Seselj changed his mind because Vojislav Kostunica said openly that he would not vote for the SAA and in fear, likely, that Vojislav Kostunica in public did not turn out to be a bigger Serb than he did, Seselj changed his mind. Tomislav Nikolic remained consistent, as he told the assembly speaker that the SRS parliamentary group would vote. Turns out they didn't vote either. So neither the radicals nor the advances voted for the SAA. You voted for the SAA. Come on, what you've voted for, but this SAA is badly negotiated. What Miss Jerkov is saying, find me where she's writing a commission for the tycoons... , so it doesn't say anywhere, but the SAA says the party will be able to become property owners in the Republic of Serbia in 2017. That's what it says, Miss Jerkov, and your property is agricultural land. Now we ask you – if you are against foreigners becoming owners of agricultural land, why in the negotiation process, or why didn't you install some mechanisms for both Serbian agriculture and Serbian economy, so if you want the Serbian real estate market, you were ready for the situation that in a few years, foreigners would be able to buy them both agricultural land and apartments and houses and places, etc.? So this isn't just about agricultural land. This is about real estate, and agricultural land is just one part of real estate in the Republic of Serbia. You didn't think about it then. It was just faster for you then, better to sign the SAA, wait for us to vote in two weeks, and let's do it in that euphoria of Bozidar Djelic, let's go after everyone in the EU, sign what we've been offered there and win another term. In such an atmosphere is signed the SAA, and you look at yourself a little bit, so you'll see if what I'm saying is true or not. It is quite true, as is true that you have already made it possible for foreigners to become owners of agricultural land in Serbia, as well as in Vojvodina. So you made it possible for them. They're already registered, and I don't know what this fear of the people of Vojvodina is about to sell the land to foreigners. You've already done it. You've already done it. The country's already registered. Thousands and thousands of hectares are recorded in the name of Pipunić, Todorovic, Tedeski, ask God what they are called, it is already registered. What may be most important and not to return to the past, the Minister of Agriculture has said to a beautiful woman - by law on agricultural land, changes and additions, it is not possible for foreigners to become owners of agricultural land. I understand that DS is in a panic, that he's in despair, that he's fighting for censorship. The man in despair is ready for anything. He's willing to lie, and he's willing to tell lies, and he's willing to slander, and he's willing to insult, and he's willing to press charges, and he's willing to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45743	Ambassador, just get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45744	What I think no party who wants to be serious has the right to do is to deceive its own citizens. Someone must have voted for DS, though, a small number of 5.86% in Vojvodina in 2014, but I respect those people who voted for DS. Don't deceive them into writing something in the law that doesn't say. So the law says that foreigners won't be able to buy agricultural land. Your entire campaign against this law comes down to the fact that Vukic wants to sell the Dukeland to foreigners, and we don't. You sold it or gave it or sold it at who knows what prices they agreed on in who knows what bar. You're talking about some transparency, some tenders that are legal. Where did you lock up your tenders? Where did you sign the terms for your tenders? According to "Madera", according to "Magestique", by "Moscow", according to the New Sad cafes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45745	Please don't advertise Belgrade cafes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45746	I'm not going back to that. The law is very clear. The law is in the interest of farmers and those in Vojvodina and those in other parts of Serbia. What is important to emphasise, in discussions between the DS and some other parliamentary groups, is once again a very dangerous idea for Serbia to be divided on this issue. It turns out that this law will only apply separately to the territory of Vojvodina, and it will apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The same legal regime will be for the country in Srem, Banat, Bačka, Machvi, Pomoravlja, Ponišavlja, etc. It is not true that this law is a law that applies exclusively to one part of our territory, to Vojvodina. It refers to all of the Republic of Serbia. All under the same conditions will be able to rent agricultural land. No country will be sold to anyone, especially strangers. It is important to say, the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture that people with 30 hectares of land will be able to buy another 20 hectares of state agricultural land for a period of 10 years. It's an extremely important benefit for our agricultural producers. We will also make it possible for young people to live in villages and create their existence in villages. So the law is good and the SNS will support it, because it is in the interest of the Serbian farmer and the one in Subotica, and the one in Mitrovica, and the one in Sapac, and the one in Lapovo and in all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45747	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45748	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I believe, I truly believe, that Mr. Martinovic doesn't understand what we're talking about. So it's not about the SAA. You're the only one who mentions the SAA. It's not an SP topic, it's not a land sale topic. The topic today is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing here, and the ruling majority intends to adopt a proposal whereby 10 or 15 thousand families will be left without the right to rent state agricultural land, because some commission, based on some investment plan, and without any criteria, will assign 30% of the agricultural land to each municipality of selected farmers. It's a topic today, and no SSP. I told you already, if you have a problem with the privatisation process, there's the mayor of Belgrade, there's Sinisa Mali, all the privatisations were conducted during that period, as director of the Privatisation Centre. You were talking about Miletta Jerkovic. Here's a deal on the sale of agricultural land that was concluded with Milet Jerkovic. Do you know who he signed? Your senior SNS official in Vojvodina, Vladimir Galic, and at the time, acting director of the Privatisation Agency in Belgrade. Please, you have more to do with the privatisation process today than anyone else sitting in these benches today than anyone else is in the DS. If you have problems with agricultural land go to your party's circuit board, I apologize, you do not have the country's party committee, talk to your members in Vojvodina, talk to Belgrade Mayor. A man has assigned land to himself agriculturally, and where he will not assign your business partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45749	The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45750	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with his associates, distinguished guests, MPs, colleagues and colleagues, has now made an incorrect claim here, certainly that this amendment should be rejected. The incorrect claim was made in the following, 10 to 15,000 landlords, not true, 360,000 landlords are registered, only about 5. 300 landowners are renters of agricultural land, so that's the exact information. On the other hand, 100,000 hectares in Vojvodina went into private hands from 2000 to 2012, no one then remembered to see how and how. As they were done, some of them passed legally and the largest illegal. The country was then sold from 1,000 to 2,000 euros, how much today is the country's price, how many countries have lost? On the other hand, the same category of land, we are witnessing in this action now, what is happening these days, the arrest, what malversions were made, the categories, the lower categories were given for more categories, everything at the expense of the state was happening again. Furthermore, yes, the commission is formed, a commission that will both be on the local level and on the republican part of the ministry to keep an eye on what investment plans these are, and there will be no godfather-burser or variants in four eyes, which DS has propagated and introduced as a rule for 12 years, that we all have not been able to observe. Why? Because all the levers of government were in the hands of DS and their leaders. All in all, I think that this amendment, which was tabled at the beginning, shows that the proposing did not follow the entire text of amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, where exactly the way in which the land is issued and to which the land is sold is arranged. It's only sold, I repeat, for the public's sake, to domestic agricultural holdings, which have up to 30 hectares of ownership, 20 acres more than just to round up the land. It is not sold to foreign investors or to a hectare of Serbia's land, only domestic. And the lease to be paid – yes, to be leased to foreign investors, who will register companies that will operate under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. According to the laws of the Republic of Serbia and simply those investments are absolutely necessary to introduce new technologies and to speed up agricultural production, not only in the natural part, that we have the lowest form of production, which is that we produce only wheat, corn, soybeans, but is the essence of these investments to raise the processing level of agricultural products to a higher level in order to have as much income per hectare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45751	Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45752	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. In support of the amendments submitted by LSV colleagues, for at least two reasons. If everything is so simple, if it is fully defined in the second term that there is no sale, what is the problem with accepting amendments unequivocally and to all, obviously, that there is no ownership of either the tenant or the owner. The arguments are thin, and that's another reason why we have such a long debate about renting agricultural land. That's the Duke's law. Of the 457,000 hectares, 90% of that is in Vojvodina. This law will apply in Vojvodina, and if we try to put it on clouded to apply to the entire territory of Serbia, it will simply, as I say, be seen tomorrow that it is not clear. Like when a colleague says – coalition DS, LSV etc. It's not so much further, it's the SPS, the URS, the SDS, and so on, it's a coalition, it's not -- and so on. Do you really think that because of what you say – this coalition was, and so on, that we would forget who made the coalition? That was a good coalition. And it's a good thing we ratified an SAA that doesn't normally have anything to do with this law, but I'm asking you to reconsider, and accept the amendment of your colleague, Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45753	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45754	No, replica, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45755	For what? To mention the SPS in connotation that they voted for the SAA? I suppose, yes, I wasn't an MP, but let's hear what MP Jovanovic has to say, may confirm.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45756	May I? So what she's trying to say now is, in the context of what she's talking about, about the SPS, it's probably up to her to explain and probably just she knows. But what is important to point out and to the citizens know, the SPS has not participated in a single one of its actions, when it is signed precisely by that SAA, which, on the one hand, is first denied, is supported, on the other hand, is no longer known how it is interpreted, and the fact is that citizens would be and how well to know, how hypocritical and political hypocrisis is at stake here, is one fact that no one can doubt, and that is that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is a burdensome legal work, that is, because it is a burdensome legal work, implies certain obligations. Those obligations must be respected and not as they were said, it's not amen. And as amen, given that it is precisely on the basis of this legal work that cannot be changed in any way, nor annexed, apart from the consent of all those who signed it, that Serbia, now, wanted, did not want, must go this way, on the one hand, because the government managed to realise, to open the door to Europe through which Serbia would surely pass. On the other hand, to respect what others have signed, which is precisely what they are now pointing to in an extremely incorrect way for the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45757	I have to take two minutes away from your total discussion, because yours is authorized in the O.R., and then it appears on the lines of the SPS, so I'm going to count this as two minutes of discussion per amendment. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45758	Dear Presidents, respected associates, respected minister with associates, Mr President, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group has been talking back for years about how we cannot change the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, unfortunately. What can we do and what does the SAA say about buying agricultural land? The Stabilisation Agreement says EU citizens under the same conditions can buy agricultural land, as can be bought by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So what we all have to do is tighten the conditions in the future. She has just done so, through the amendment, the SVM Parliamentary Group to a member of the 11th law, where it is said -- anyone who wants to buy state agricultural land, for five years must have residence in that local self-government and for at least three years must have ownership registered and active status. So, the SAA can't change, but the conditions through the Agricultural Land Act can always be sharpened, and we all need to do that. Otherwise, I would like to commend the Minister, or the Ministry of Agriculture, that they have accepted this amendment, in the future we must all work to strengthen the conditions. We have now done so through this law, but in the future, so even after 2017, we can do it, yes, we can be in touch with the EU, we can hold talks about it, but the most important thing is that we have now, at present, sharpened these conditions. We can't change the agreement, but through our amendment, we've tightened those conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45759	Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45760	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are indeed the worst of those who are not ashamed of anything. So is it possible that those who have listed the SAA and allowed foreigners to buy the country, four years after becoming a candidate country for EU accession, today are trying to make a story about banning foreigners from taking a lease to invest this country. This amount of manipulation, invention and planting, I do not think it has been seen yet in the Serbian Parliament. It was signed by the SAA, and before that, the country was sold. Eight and a half thousand people bought a combination of Frikom and Diamond Zrenjanin, Ivica Todorić tycoon from Croatia bought eight and a half thousand hectares. Well, you let him do that with the ordinary opinion of a minister, not the laws this country had. You sold the land. Now you're fighting to stop investors from coming to invest in this country. So how many people? Well, the SAA is not a question of chapters 11 and 12. This is not the chapter of the agricultural debate, so this is the question of Chapter 4 on freedom of movement of capital. And you're not going to sign any today, and today you're signing sales, and today you're collecting signatures to prevent what you signed in 2008. That amount of hypocrisy has already exceeded all measures and limits. We can change the laws on agricultural land whenever we want. We can't do anything like that to affect the SAA. We can spoil it, add whatever we want, we simply signed a contract with the EU. The only one who can change that is the prime minister who will, in the interview and on Chapter 4, repeat, by his authority and by the good international foreign policy that we have made possible for them to give us a discount, 28 states, and to retify the extension of the signed agreement. It's the only one and we can hope he can do it. Your referendum, we're talking about what you've done now you want to delete. So don't, people, deceive us more and Serbia's citizens and farmers the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45761	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45762	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable President of the province of Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been traveling for some 13 years to Novi Sad-Belgrade and watching fields on the left and right. They're labor tools from 40 years ago. With such tools, we cannot get any agricultural production at European level. This amendment, which has been submitted, should not be supported for a simple reason because we need an investment. This foreign investor is coming to make some money and do us a favor, to process that agricultural land. These investors have complete machinery, technology, technique. In one year, maybe two, full yields. Our people who buy, who have 30 hectares and buy another 20 hectares, with the mechanism they own, and who have no opportunity to improve the rolling stock, the machinery park, will not be produced at Serbian level. Therefore, this amendment should not be accepted at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45763	The amendment to which Article 1a is added after Article 1a was jointly submitted by MPs of the LSV parliamentary group. On the basis of Article 163 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Anybody want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s Parliament of Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45764	Thank you, Madam President. We suggest that this article be deleted too, because we are against the bill as a whole. It doesn't change things that define certain concepts in the law to this article because we oppose amendments and additions to the law. Far from us believing that the law so far was good, as we had many opportunities to hear. It wasn't good, it was adopted in 2006. He opened up the possibility of various manipulations, I said that some of the officials of the current parties were in power and how they used those holes in the law. So we don't think he was good. However, it is also a fact that he has made some improvements when it comes to the lease of state agricultural land and first sees it in very measurable ways and from there we draw this information from 10,000 households that live right from the lease of state agricultural land. In fact, when you look at the 2007 data, when it first started to rent state agricultural land, you can see that this lease is about 200 million dinars, and this year the part belonging to AP Vojvodina will be over two billion dinars. So it means that people are still renting that state agricultural land. According to the list of farms that we also have at our disposal, it is not true that you are saying that only 5,000 or less than 5,000 families of agricultural households are renting state agricultural land. No, on the contrary, these data show that these households have more than 10 000, and according to our data, almost half of them, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, live exclusively from taking state agricultural land into lease. So we think that this proposal that you're coming with needs to be deleted and that we need to keep the existing solution to make it more serious, much more serious, to work on new changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45765	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45766	Thank you. Here, we're back to the debate in principle, and I'd like to show a few tables for the public, first of all, because of our farmers who are watching this transmission right now. Here, respected farmers and respected MPs, on this graphic depiction of green paint, agricultural land owned by a Serbian state that is rented, about 250,000 acres [250,000 ha]. This red paint is agricultural land offered in public competition, but not leased or unprocessed or partly usurped. This is about 340,000 acres of land that wasn't even auctioned. What are we talking about? If this land that makes up 30% of the land that is now being sold, it processes about 5,000 landowners, how are we going to endanger these landowners if we give them the opportunity to buy one piece of agricultural land that they otherwise asked to be provided as a possibility, when we have 70% of the unacceptable land that is not used in a legally prescribed way. Even if we were to manage to give all the land planned for an investor to investors again about 40%. He didn't even say that any agricultural land would lose its ability to re-occupy state agricultural land because of this law. Don't let anyone scare the farmers. Don't let anyone talk about how they have information that they wanted anything else compared to what we suggested in this law. Please bring me those documents, let's see. As I'm prepared...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45767	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45768	... to show everything we've done together and all the suggestions we've received in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45769	Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45770	Ladies and gentlemen, one more call not to be accepted for the same reason. This is all the way to the limit unserious. We call for something to be deleted, it's about new terms, with what excuses, please? That it put someone at risk, threatened by the owners or the family. Let's get serious. So, if the promoters of these amendments can't explain what's really wrong with the undeniably clear good things or, say, in that information system that I mentioned best, not to be distracted, with all due respect. It is not bad for Serbia to see how some who represent it behave. We draw conclusions from their behaviour and inconclusiveness, both us and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45771	Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45772	I thank the president. I just wanted to say what my colleague Orlic said, but I would just add, it's unserious to ask that this member be deleted, or a proposal for a member, just because they are generally against this law. These amendments introduce two very important concepts, which is a book of fields and fertility, and that is very important, and later the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Land will also talk about it, but it is very important to introduce these concepts because it has not been so far, and it has happened that it is precisely in Vojvodina that land is being exhausted once and for years with the same culture. Those who know and understand themselves and in pedology know how dangerous it is not to keep a book of fields, where to introduce what is done daily, and not to introduce a plethora that implies changing cultures, in order to preserve the fertility of the land. So, then we just get one contradictory information that someone who's fighting for land against taking care of the quality of the land. So, this amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45773	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45774	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic here says that it is not true that the position of farmers will change and that they will not be prevented from taking the land of the state to rent. Tell me, what country will they take? If you give a third of the agricultural land to some of your business partners, a third is certainly the subject of restitution, and a third is unprocessable land, these are some mornings, devastated meadows, desserts, etc., so tell me then, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, which then farmers will be able to rent? Or maybe you think your investors are going to take your fourth and fifth grade land? They will not, they will take the country first, second and third classes, and these farmers will remain the country's fourth and fifth classes both for rent and for purchase later. So, the only one who deceives farmers is you who say their position won't change in any way. I ask you again, if you give a third to selected businessmen and businessmen, if a third is the subject of restitution, which third will remain for them to process, and which third will remain for them to buy? It certainly won't be the country someone wants to process.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45775	The word has a minister, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45776	I disagree with you, and this is another proof that individuals aim to intimidate farmers and tell them information that is not true. It is absolutely not true that the land of bad quality will remain with them, and that it will go well for some investors, with our friends, as you say. I think it's really an unserious approach to interpreting laws and provisions of laws that are extremely serious and which we really came with due attention to. I responsibly claim it's an excellent law, a law that goes in favor of a farmer. You say, "What will become of them?" So it'll be all agricultural land. This law says it is the land and the best quality used for agriculture, as well as what can be used for agriculture. So, that can be brought in for purpose. According to the data, here's how much in Vojvodina land is not used - almost 50%. Fifty percent is leased. If we want to be exactly 100 percent accurate right now, so let's say -- let's say, in central Serbia, the data is a little weaker, or less usury, but here in Vojvodina. Well, please, out of these 50%, 30% on the condition that we give, which is up to a maximum of 30%, there's 20% left. Gentlemen, someone has to pay attention to agricultural land, not always the same at the level of local self-government to get the highest quality, but agricultural land is agricultural land. Even those 12,000 wetlands, the cane in Vojvodina must be processed. We predicted this by this law, the possibility that it could be planted through an extremely favourable approach, or in a favourable way, to be granted to those who would use it for plant planting, for the production of biomass. And we all had our mouths full when we talked about the production of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45777	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45778	The President-in-Office, honourable minister, fellow MPs, this amendment should certainly not be accepted for the reasons set out in the proposal. Because the introduction of new terms will know precisely on every plot that will deal with both agricultural culture and what the plot looks like in the book of the field. Why am I saying this? Because for the first time now, through this law, there will be a defined portion of the land lease that will be used to produce biomass electricity. It is therefore very important to know what kind of plot they will do and what their status is, whether they are leased or owned. On the other hand, it should be repeatedly stressed that 3.2 million hectares of farmland processed in Serbia. Half belong to Vojvodina and half to the rest of Serbia. We have 800,000 hectares of fully unprocessed agricultural land, which is simply poor quality, which can be put into service for the production of biomass. That is why this amendment to Article 2, which will define the field, which will define a book that will keep records of it, is of paramount importance and therefore makes the amendment totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45779	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45780	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question has been raised which country will be handled by farmers? Maybe this one in Shid, leased by the godfather of the former regime's party, and otherwise the owner of two TVs, a sympathiser of the former regime's parties. I understand that someone is opposed to the right of the championship for 30 years. This right under this law, and since the debate is in particular, the promoter already knows that amendments have been adopted and that the price for the right of the lease, regardless of the investment, cannot be lower than the price for the right to short lease for our cattle. So whoever comes to invest, and these can be cooperatives that have been robbed with land, etc., in the previous period, where more than 100,000 hectares of cooperative land that was the property of the United peasants disappeared from 2000 to 2012, and now they get the conditions that this land, which is the object of the lease, can also be those cooperatives as legal persons, the amendment found that there could be more legal entities in those 30%, can be leased, and that the price cannot be lower than the price paid by our cattlemen. So it can only be more. At this point, it's somewhere, let the minister correct me, about 200 euros and the lowest possible price. Now let's see how they got it out for 30 years. The aforementioned person, the godfather of the former Shida regime's party, leased land first on his tractorist in 2007, so that several years later they declare him crazy and that same day break up the contract between the municipality and the ministry with its tractorist and the same day the president of the municipality, of course a member of the former regime's party, decides to issue it to the owner of two televisions. On the same day, the Ministry agreed to such a decision, and three days later, regardless of the 15-day appeal period, the Ministry, may the State Department of Land sign a contract with the godfather of the former regime. Look at the wonders, for 30 years, with the right of a shorter lease. It's the vineyard again. The man presented himself as the owner of the vineyard, although these so far at 101 hectares there was no, which, of course, also found agricultural inspection. When they caught him that there was no vineyard, which was the basis for a short lease for 30 years, but not the price that would be 200 euros. You know what the price was? It was 73 euros a hectare. They now have little 30 years of 200 euros and more, but then they had a lot for the godfather of the former regime party, the owner of the two televisions that tell the most beautiful stories about them – mirrors, mirrors, who is the most beautiful in the world, are the most beautiful ones. So, that was a lot of 73 euros for 30 years as a right to cross the lease, as the owner of wine crops that were not there. When it was established, they gave him an investment agreement, let me be corrected by the Ministry's gentlemen if that's not true, to be apples. I brought a business plan to be apples. Now he's no longer a tractorist, now he's not a wine anymore, he doesn't exist, he's determined. Now he's got a business plan for apples, so he can go back to 30 years. When they caught him with no apples, then business plan to nectarines. Here, it's all in these documents. When there were no nectarines, these days, and let the gentlemen of the ministry's papers mention me, the gentleman, the godfather of the former regime's vice president, demand an investment agreement to plant blueberries, and all for 73 euros per 30 years, without any investment investments, without any employment, without any processing, with one tractorist declared insane, who was initially the contractor of the contract, etc. Now I can talk for days about abuses, and I will continue to talk about, which the authorities and parties of the former regime have allowed their privileged members, godfathers, financial directors of their parties to obtain, under privileged conditions, criminal conditions, at the expense of Serbian citizens, enormous means, to mock the regulations and laws they themselves have passed, to play what they have adopted in this assembly. The amendments have forgotten that there is documentation about it, and I will continue to present more cases, how when you give 200,000 in the election campaign to the party of the former regime, you don't have to be best ranked at the bidding, but you can also be second as well, but it's a condition that in the election campaign, and I'll prove it, well, you pay a few hundred thousand dinars to the former election campaigning regime, and then you certainly get it, and if you're not the first, you can be second. I will further prove that the former regime's party to new technologies also includes the production of coffins, believe it or not, and that whoever gets 24 million for new technologies in the production of coffins has the right to return it to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina in their products. Now, I wish they weren't burying people alive, they'd better bury their own party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45781	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The amendment, which is added after Article 2a, was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. On the basis of Article 163 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the Third Amendment. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we go, back to the same subject. We believe that farmers will be prevented from renting state agricultural land, we know that it lives on, here, you won't say, more than 10,000 or, we can agree, thousands of households. We believe there's a lot more to it and the data we have is talking about it. You know, if you were to deny a man the right to live off something to give that agricultural land to someone under vague criteria, and that would be terrible, so, that's too much. You're saying it's not true that they're going to be left with a bad quality country. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the right of the lease will have selected businessmen. Do you really believe that these selected businessmen who have the right to the lease will take a bad quality land and that they will rent some wetland land, not the best land that the municipality has, since they can choose first? Well, then when a country in the restitution is added to that, it is indeed a fact that farmers will remain the country that no one wanted to take, which your business partners did not want to take. Now, that land will remain for our farmers to rent. You say half the country doesn't give up. Of the 450,000 hectares of state land, 320,000 are oracies, 270,000 of which are issued. How is 270,000 - half of 320,000? Just tell us. And that number is growing year by year, which means that the very setting from which you set out in the Bill's proposal, that there is no interest in renting agricultural land, is not correct. That's why we're against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45783	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Mrs. Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45784	Thank you. It's not nice, as one of our most esteemed national MPs would say, to keep telling lies and to speak casually, to present misinformation. As far as restitution is concerned, here's the data here for every municipality and every county, the Agency's restitution data. So, claims based on this base are 91,370 hectares. Here are the data on the number of agricultural holdings currently renting state agricultural land in Vojvodina – 4.485, in central Serbia – 778, a total of 5,263 hectares. Here you go. Here's the data, for which I don't have time now, given the limited time for amendments, for all of Serbia, therefore, according to municipalities, which say how much state land is on the territory of each municipality, how much land has been issued, how much has been left unissued on public auction and how much is now in the red zone. Here you go, gentlemen. So everyone is at their disposal, as was available to our farmers, especially those who organized the protests, and all the time participated with us in the preparation of this law. Here you go, Miss Jerkov, come back later, please, take a look. This red is the state of use of agricultural land, good for the general interest of the Republic of Serbia. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can we take it? You can, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45785	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been stories of whether there will be land, whether there will be enough land. I think that this Article 3 is a very good institute to suspend the transfer funds of local self-government unless they fulfil their obligations, when it comes to the programme or public ad, enables much more land to be issued and that, in fact, almost all of the land available to local self-governments, which is available to the state of Serbia, is in a position to be issued because local self-governments will find it very difficult to accept that transfer funds are suspended. So, in the next year or two, while this mechanism is in place, I'm sure that instead of this 250-280, I don't know the real data, the different data are coming out here, but in any case, that those 460,000 hectares, how realistic the land is, that most of that land will be issued by itself and the 30% that are in dispute for some of the opposition colleagues, will be covered by the fact that a much larger area of land will be issued in the previous period, so that farmers who are currently renting land have nothing to worry about, have nothing to fear. It's gonna be land, and it's gonna be bigger, especially over the next few years. You know, we're talking about 30% of the agricultural land to be betrayed by investors. Do you think it will be issued overnight, that in every municipality in Serbia, it will be combined at 500, 600, 700 hectares per night? Well, that's one process that will last for decades. Well, we've been building in Tito's Yugoslavia for decades and with the great help of some capital that has come mainly from Western countries and combined decades, so this process will also be created in each of the 200 municipalities or in the largest number of these municipalities in fact by these combinations that will have 500, 600, 700 hectares, which will deal primarily and exclusively, this is the goal of the state, livestock, warfare, fruit production, to just appear overnight. It's a big deal. This is one opportunity for certain municipalities. I am overjoyed if in the following year we have five to ten municipalities that will issue their land and make some more serious investments. For the whole job of issuing these 30% of state land and investment, it takes billions of euros, billions of euros and a really long process. Therefore, in the short term and in the next few years, farmers will certainly have more land to be offered for issue on the one hand, and it is possible that the rent prices will fall, since a larger area of land will be offered, and that is another benefit for farmers, at least for the next ten years, I would say. Therefore, there is no need for any fear. This institution in Article 3 is very good, which forces local self-government units to issue a country compulsoryly and to issue almost all the country at the disposal of the state of Serbia and will be one incentive, above all for farmers who are currently issuing the country within a relatively short period of a year, two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45787	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45788	Here, I would also support my colleague, Mr Antic, because the really institute brought to this Article 3 is binding that local self-government must now call and betray the country. We had experience in the previous period where large areas of local self-government were usurped, where it was for the benefit of individuals who had closer co-operation with these local powers the land was issued to them. Now with this law, the obligation of local self-government is to do so, this article defines it, and every local self-government will have to do so, because otherwise the transfer will be abolished. The suspension of transfers closes, as every local self-government says, because a large number of local self-governments, from what local self-government I come from, cannot function without the transfer of the Republic of Serbia. I think that this law is well-defined, that local self-government must call for land to be issued, and I can only remind all present colleagues that Serbia, north of Serbia, west of Serbia and southeast of Serbia. So I can remind everyone, an example of how much land was issued in the previous period, let's say, the town of Nis has a total of 28,326 hectares of farmland, of which 3,196 hectares is state land, and 74 hectares are sold. The purpose, there are 2,017 hectares of state land, of which 167 hectares are issued. Doljevac, 1,512 hectares of state land, and 42 hectares of land issued, etc. We have 12 municipalities, where it's not issued here near 20,000 acres of state land, which means it's a huge loss for local self-government, especially for that land, because it's not being processed. This member of the local self-government will have to betray. I come from Srlig where we used to publish it, but no one wanted to take it. I would also support Mr. Risticevic, because in the previous speech he repeatedly hinted at some of the negative things that were happening in the previous period that are now being realized. I mean, those negative things about the land issue, where there was also the arrest of those people who did those negative things. Another very important thing is that all local self-government, and here I am talking about this part of Southeast Serbia, will be able to betray, we have interested investors, and now, according to this, there is an amendment that not only needs to be one investor but also a larger number of them. We also reached a conclusion on the Committee on Saturday that we have more land that is not of a state character, but rather a land that leads to local communities where we have defined and initiated in conclusion, that is what I and my colleagues have asked on the Committee, to change the Law on the issuing of land, which will be able to free an even bigger area of land where it can be invested and invested. Once again, I urge all colleagues not to accept the amendment proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45789	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45790	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, Mr. President of the Vojvodina Assembly, with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, our intensity of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – the ZZS-ZS, as well as the rest of the opposition, is not to disable this law and prevent the adoption of such a law, but to help the amendment solutions help the promoter by respecting these amendments to a qualitative correction, i.e. improving the law that will be longer. After all, what we are all here for is to benefit the citizens of Serbia. The amendment we have made is in this regard, in Article 3(4). - it is deleted, so the following means, it – it does not have to be deleted to mean that it is always apriori without ideas, on the contrary, we believe that such a solution is given in the article, i.e. in Article 3 paragraph 4. We believe that in the situation where units of local self-government adopt a programme under Article 2 in accordance with the provisions of this article, the minister in charge of finance affairs is suspended, on a proposal from the Ministry, the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. a corresponding part of the income tax to that local self-government unit until the obligation is implemented. Opposing the Constitution of the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, therefore, the competent ministry when it entrusts certain tasks to local self-government units, it has the right to, where that unit of local self-government does not execute... I'll use the time of my authorised representative, so please let me finish. So when you trust certain jobs, then it means that the funds provided for in these entrusted transactions are transferred to local self-government units. Later, you in law have a solution that if local self-government doesn't bring the program the Ministry brings. Why should it be harmonised for you to deny other sources of income provided for on other grounds. So that's to say, slightly speaking, strictness training. You have another unconstitutional solution and I will talk about it in more detail later, but I am obliged as a MP who has been elected here by the will of the citizens to point out that. It is the following, that second anti-constitutional part is that as a citizen of Serbia, a citizen of Serbia, a future user of national goods, which is a country, I have no right to buy a country outside of the Catastrian municipality where I live or have not spent three years. That's the same thing my producers who live on a local self-government unit like the Svilajnac municipality that has 260 registered cattlemen, where we have 33 people who have over 100 throats, they can't, and there's no country. So it was a completely qualitatively different situation in central Serbia and Vojvodina. The law and any changes that are being made are more appropriate for use in Vojvodina, however, central Serbia is nowhere to be found. So, what's a producer who has 100 head of big cattle and wants to buy a country, a state, as a user of national property, which he has rights to, let's say lives in Svilinco, has a plot on one side of the coast of Velika Morava, in the Great Plana on the other side of the Great Morava coast, has land that he can rent. He has no right to do that. I think we should think about it and that the amendment that we later submitted gives us a more comprehensive solution. So the discrimination in which I, as a Serbian citizen, can buy the apartment of Novi Sad, and I can't buy the land, so it doesn't stand, it can't pass the Constitutional Court. As well as this, you're limiting the transfer of funds. Does that mean that if the local self-government unit doesn't arrange the street lighting tomorrow, the finance minister can ban him from transferring funds until he does. It's literally like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45791	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45792	Dear People's MP, you can see for yourself how difficult it was to come up with a proposal that would be acceptable to everyone. We heard in principle that this is a law for central Serbia from Vojvodina, now you're saying this is a law for Vojvodina. So no one's happy enough, but let's get back to the amendment. First of all, I would like to say that, under the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia has and manages agricultural land in state property, and local self-government is responsible for the adoption of an annual programme for the protection of the organisation and use of agricultural land. So they're practically users. In that chain, it's extremely important that when local self-government does their part of the job, because if they don't do it, we can't follow the law further. In previous years, from practice, we have concluded that despite existing fines, local self-government is often deafened by legal obligation and constitutional obligation. For this reason, we have brought this, this recommendation, to suspend the temporary transfer of funds to local self-government, to update, in time to meet the obligations under the law and to the Constitution, and without that we cannot carry out further land policy. That's when you talk about this amendment of yours. As for this question, why can't you from central Serbia buy a country in Vojvodina, and yet I would go back to what you asked me last time, what are we doing in the September 1, 2017?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45793	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposer has proposed eradicating amendments, part of Article 3 in which another amendment has been adopted for a more precise determination. I must say that this solution and admit that the solution and the amendment that was adopted is part of the AP Vojvodina's solution, and to be even more precise, we could not adopt more amendments on one member, because there is only one possible, and then we have collected and signed the copyrights of all the promoters to cover and enlarge the law with all the solutions that have been offered. It is no problem for me to admit that what you want to erase is from drafts to proposals and amendments, there has been an AP Vojvodina solution that we have accepted, since the AP Vojvodina and the Assembly, we cannot expect it to write an amendment. I don't know exactly who formally signed this amendment, but the whole solution in Article 4 is a very good solution, which was proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and I have no problem admitting it, as I have no problem admitting that it was a valuable role of SVM which showed that it was politically necessary to fight for and for the benefit of farmers, and not to use farmers for the benefit of politics. That's the difference between SVM and other political parties, but we've accepted and signed solutions, as SVM, so other opposition parties, and I have no problem admitting that these are their solutions. As for unconstitutionalness, the previous gentleman said this was not constitutional, especially because it could not be purchased from one municipality in another, from the territory of one catastrian municipality to another catastrian municipality. Just to remind myself that this solution exists in the existing law, therefore, in the first round of the right to participate, they have registered agricultural holdings, whose owner owns a residence on the territory of the cadastrian municipality where the lease or neighbouring property is carried out, if there are land bordered by the parcel that is the subject of the lease. So, it's no newspaper, and if it was unconstitutional, you should have asked Mr Petrovic why they kept such an unconstitutional solution from 2007 to today? I believe that it is constitutional, that the right to lease, above all, should be used by those who have the mechanism, as close as possible to the field, etc., to be as little cost of production as possible, and I believe that this solution that was in the existing law, which will be in the future, is good, no matter what comes today from one opposition party. As for livestock, I must tell you that we have given all the privileges to cattlemen, that in one municipality, they have the right, when their average price is higher than the Republic, the right to choose which price they will accept, and if it is less republican, they have the right to accept the Republic instead of the municipal, if it is far higher, such as the cases in many parts of the Vojvodina. So, everything that was of the privilege, we switched to cattle, and when you talk about livestock, I hope it's not about those in Svilinco imported before the election campaign, 240 cows branded "moving", a variety of who died, 225 of whom were shared with the election campaign, were colorful yellow cows.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45795	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representatives of the Association of Farmers who participated in writing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which are currently following part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, do not worry that this law will be declared unconstitutional, especially Article 3(4), because local self-government has original incomes and we do not touch them. We're touching confidential incomes and we're trusting some business local self-government to do for the state. That is exactly how those who submit such amendments defend the interests of those who for years have exploited agricultural land in the state property, without any compensation to the state, and therefore you have now shown this diagram, how much agricultural land is not leased, and not being leased because it is used unauthorized, because they have connected with the managers in certain local self-governments and were in the interest that there is no plan and programme to rent agricultural land. Now they defend the interests of those same ones who have done it for years unauthorized. When it comes to the question of what will warlords do, so in Central Serbia, I would ask you one more question, I know it's not your fault, and what will cattlemen do in Central Serbia? All the slaughterhouses with Micovic have been closed. They have completely destroyed the slaughterhouse industry in Central Serbia and only one slaughterhouse meets the HCCP export standards. That's right, you're all closed. Why? Again, for the sake of interest, not to have a cattle and meat-processing industry, but to trade grains on markets and looting that peasant, whose interest you're supposed to be defending, so they've destroyed both the nitrogen and the seduction, the institutes, whatever they could reach, just to privatise the state and now they're taking care of the agricultural producer, the peasant, and during their government, the maltenes are extinct, gone. I'm talking because I come from Braničevsky County, villages that were rich 20 years ago, and today in the poor, just because you ran and made yourself available to the state. Don't let anyone else blame you. It's time for some things to change. You can defend the interests of Miskovic and other tycuns that have exploited decades and a half of agricultural land, but you're free of it. The state of Serbia will be arranged and will take advantage of its agricultural benefits, not as in 2014, to give us an opportunity to export, and we have nothing to export, because you have ruined everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45797	The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45798	In my address, I am not talking to the Minister of Agriculture, but I would like to give the public the correct information. As far as the Svilian municipality is concerned, there is no land, there are 90 acres of land that can be rented and you can see it. As for those breeding throats you're worried about, and you're not in that speciality, you're probably a warrior, but I want to tell you that you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45799	Mr. Marinkovic, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can only speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45800	I am speaking to you, Mr. Chairman, on the discussion of the previous one, I ask you to take note of the factual state that exists. Of the 250 imported heifers, there are 442 breeding throats, which for these, for the last five years, of those 250, so 442, and that programme I offered to the ministry, the previous minister, who was, Mr. Glamočić, and that's a great thing. You need to accept what's good. As for the closure of slaughterhouses, I thought I wasn't talking, but I would have to say, in September 15th, I signed five solutions for five export slaughterhouses for export to the EU market. In 2003, I negotiated a quota of ten thousand tonnes of meat with the gentleman, Dr. Vlasimir Jovanovic, who was a gift from the Association of Cattle Breeders of the Symental Race, Bavarian and that quota can still be used by the country today. This was agreed by the Bavarac Breeder's Association, the Bavarian Ministry. Therefore, conditions exist for work. If I, I haven't closed a single slaughterhouse, I've opened five that can be exported to the European market and please keep that in mind, it would be useful to use those capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45801	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: I answer the word. You must have Mr. Risticevic, you've called again and in the meantime Mrs. Tomic has had an earlier application, and you have no more time for an authorised head of the parliamentary group, so you must regularly like the others. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45802	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, well, first of all, to define is a proposalary's explanation. The argument is that an anti-constitutional solution that abolishs the part that applies to transfers for purposes of any kind that have local self-government, so it doesn't stand. So that's what we've solved. The second part, which relates at all to the proponents' arguments that this is a rigid attitude towards local self-government under this law, also does not stand, because in earlier practice we had certain transfers that were entrusted by the state in most cases were spent on certain projects that had nothing to do with agriculture and agricultural production at all. As a result, such legal solutions are introduced, increased financial discipline, but also organisational discipline in local self-government, that they simply have to organise their own business to start agricultural activities on certain parcels in their local self-government and thus ensure that they are really doing the work for which the leases of agricultural land have been carried out. Why are we saying that? We know that in earlier leases, although he is small, only 248 thousand hectares, so about 30% of the rents exist, 70% of the agricultural land is unrenowned. More than half of it can be said to be usurped. What does that mean? This means that illegal agricultural producers use the country and simply use it for their own purposes. Well, there are even those who are not even registered as agricultural holdings, so the state loses 100m euros annually in the budget, precisely because there is no lease. Agricultural activities that are determined by local self-government, of course, depend on local self-government itself as well as on how it organises an economic environment, i.e. when we talk about agriculture, the environment that needs to be co-operated with agricultural producers. And we, as the Forum for Energy Policy, really held a debate in which we wanted to talk together with agricultural producers about how all ways agricultural land can be used in certain local self-governments, because we are not just talking about Vojvodina. So we're talking more than half of the agricultural land belongs to another part of Serbia, meaning that it's not Vojvodina, that simply all local self-governments that have certain opportunities to place agricultural land in the function of economic development. Whether it's going to be primary agricultural production or it's going to be secondary, when we talk about the food industry is a very important factor. As a result, what is given by this bill to introduce into local self-government a system of discipline and certain solutions to even suspend temporary transfers, until they do their part of the job, is a completely correct legal solution. That is why this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45803	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45804	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honored guests, Mr. Chairman, have here been told a lie about 240 June, worth about 300,000 euros, which were imported and distributed to supporters and members of the former regime's party. It's been less than four years since then. Of those 240 throats today, three years later, he didn't even survive 20. So, I'm responsible for claiming that the forced slaughter or the death of more than 200 throats imported by 600,000 euros instead of 300,000 eras. And it's easy, there's a database, it's easy to establish an import contingent, and the Ministry can do that, and if there's more than 50 surviving throats, I'll resign. If not, that fellow who proudly presents some other data here, to do the same because he participated in the import of 240 heifers, of which in three or four years he survived barely 20 pieces. That is true and can be confirmed by those who provided the cattle, and there is a database and exactly what is imported, and you know exactly how many living throats from 2012 are now shared in the election campaign, and that is why you called them – colorful yellow cows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45805	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45806	I'd like to start by explaining the amendments, so I'll look back on these incorrect findings later. So our goal wasn't to not betray the country and the constant comments in the sense that local self-government are bad guys who will deliberately not betray the country, and there are actually some con men, corrupters, etc. It doesn't stand. So that's where the responsible people who have also elected citizens work, and this is not the kind of repression you need because in a later solution you have. If units of local self-government don't bring in a program, you have the right to give him a warrant to bring in a certain period. If not, you're setting a program, so that money force is not necessary because it doesn't apply to a trusted job at all. This unconstitutionalness stems from the depriving of money that is not for a trusted job, but is money for transfers. I don't want to argue, I won't answer on this amendment anymore because I think it's enough, we're all smart, once I say it. As for this offer by Mr. Risticevic, I accept the offer and expect that tomorrow, I will bring the number of these throats, to resign tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45807	Thank you. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45808	I'm no expert in interpreting whether something is constitutional or not constitutional, after all there are institutions that are responsible for it, but something bothers me a little here in these terms, when we're talking kind of steaming ears. Some say, “We want to betray the earth; and others say, “We will not betray the earth.” I'd like to ask my colleagues if they can give a different term to rent or sell, because it turns out to be something he says -- we're betraying the country, we want to betray the country; so that's all I wanted to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45809	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45810	Of course, according to the amendment. I'll be happy to accept the offer, but my offer applies to imported throats and the bus says "Lasta", but it doesn't fly. So, the numbers that my colleague will bring, I don't care, I'm interested in the official import database numbers and today the official database of how many of these imported throats still exist in the database as surviving throats compared to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45811	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Bečić, the Honorable Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, and I think for the first time in this meeting the respected guests of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the province government, the amendment to Article 3 submitted by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic is one of the 12 amendments that we tabled on two draft laws, which today, in the amendment debate, is defended by Minister Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic. I mean, of these 12 amendments submitted, gentlemen, that four amendments were accepted. Of course, it is my turn to announce at the beginning of these words at the National Assembly in the discussion of the draft law in the opening amendment that we have submitted 1884 amendments for these years and eight months. Since the submission of the 1884 amendments, gentlemen, 166 amendments have been accepted. When we transfer it to some percentages, it means that we are the People's MPs of the New Party in this assembly, in this National Assembly, of the total number of amendments submitted, we have also submitted those that were accepted at 8.81%. For me, according to certain analogies, it means that for a year and eight months of persistent, dedicated, legislative work, the New Party today is in favour of the voter section at 8.81%, and that is now a stable support, gentlemen. It repeats itself from month to month, and I think it was appropriate for the team to announce one of my pleasures to the Ministers and to all our guests and guests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45813	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Mrs. Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45814	Dear People's MP, it is true that we have accepted four of your amendments, but to this other law - the Law on the Protection of Land. This showed our desire to consider all amendments well. As for the amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, it may be an opportunity to say that after the debate in principle, we accepted 13 amendments, that the amendments were carefully considered and that, based on what they contained in the reasoning and on the basis of the parliamentary debate, many of the issues that were then opened through these amendments, we responded positively. I also want to take this opportunity to welcome all of our representatives of the Association of Farmers who are following us from the gallery and to say that they are part of those who participated in the preparation of this law, and to repeat once again that a law has really been passed in accordance with the highest principles, that it is in the interest of agriculture and that it is in the interest of our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45815	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go, Professor. Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45816	Thank you. I was expecting with my fellow counterpart Pavicevic to perform, and I was very interested in how he would explain his amendment. In the discussion, however, there was nothing to do with the amendment, only those successes were heard about the influence in the electoral body. Statistics is a strange science and everyone interprets it in their own way. I assume that now, colleagues Pavicevic and his party will go to the polls on their own. It'll do a lot of damage to DS, whose list they were on, but I believe with these 8 or something percent, well, now, I don't know if it's per party member, if it's per party member, then you're almost 17, and I wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45817	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45818	Mr. Chairman, a few more seconds in the spirit of discussion of the distinguished professor. I certainly won't deal with the amendment itself too much. I don't think there's any need to support him, because he doesn't even represent him anymore. So about this argument we've heard, let's call it argumentation, I'm from this data that we've just heard doing a certain analogy. I conclude that in the overall Eskimo population, 8.81% are millionaires. This is just as serious and equally related to logic as the other analogy we've heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45819	Thank you. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted the amendment in the same text. Does one of the amendment's proposings want a word? The word is made by the President of the Duke's Parliament, Mr. Istvan Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45820	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on 17 November this year discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land and established a total of six amendments that we have sent to this respected home within the legal and business period. I thank you for the possibility that today we can be able to make two minutes available and give a brief explanation of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45821	Mr. Pastor, I apologize. You can speak for more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45822	Thank you very much. As far as our approach is concerned in general regarding the examination of amendments and additions to the law and the definition of amendments, we have taken care of two very important elements at the same time. One element is the question of responsibility or the moral right of this generation to have agricultural land that represents a basis for the sustainable development of the next generations, and, on the other hand, at the same time, at least such a significant moment in considering the amendment and supplementation of the law was the need to follow steps to amend and supplement the existing law, so that our agrarian would be more prepared, in order to be more developed, in order to deal with the agrarian economies of other countries. As regards defined amendments, the first amendment concerns Article 3 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. With this amendment, we propose that a new member be added after Article 6, and we base the addition of this new member on one experience, and this experience tells us that there are equal and equal laws between local self-government and local self-government. In fact, we saw in previous years that a significant number of local self-governments that failed to produce their annual programmes and thus a significant part of the agricultural land remained in the parlogum. According to our data, in 2011 and 2012, in the Republic of Serbia, 43 units of local self-government did not implement the procedure. As for Vojvodina, it was in Sremski Karlovci and Odzac, and in 41 local self-government in central Serbia's territory. In this way, according to our assessment, we conclude that around 170,000 hectares of state-owned agricultural land were left unrenowned, with budgets from the local self-government of the AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia damaged in 2012, at a free estimate, for some 11m euros. For this reason, with this amendment, the addition of a seventh-guest member, we want to tighten the responsibility of local self-government and we want to define a very firm commitment by the Secretary-General to automatically signal this to the Ministry of Finance through the suspension of payment from the Republic budget simply consents, sanctioning such a single failure, so that the land we have is put into operation. I'm glad that at least copyright has been recognised, although it would be preferable if someone else's copyright had been recognised and our amendment adopted. All that matters is that the essence is there, and if this substance is incorporated into the law, we think that we will all benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45823	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go, Mr. Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to join Mr. Pastor in his grades. We also believe that the relationship between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance must be regulated more precisely. When it comes to consequences, unless someone brings a programme to local self-government, unfortunately, there have been cases, too, that there have been failures by the ministry in approving the local self-government programme. So this way I would also like to appeal to you from the ministry to, as far as possible, train people who, or sectors dealing with this, because one of the reasons why some of the land remained out of use, or is not excluded for the reasons that once the programmes were slowly approved, or not approved, and there were certain problems in relation to the Ministry of Agriculture and some local self-government. You certainly know better what this was about, but when we talk about the guilt of people in municipalities, I also think that there are competent people sitting there and it is not true that most people in municipalities don't know how to manage agricultural land, as an important state resource, especially what a good part of the income of local self-government is just coming from the issue of state land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45825	Thank you, Mr. Stojsic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Mrs. Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45826	President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, I want to thank you and I want to thank your associates for taking part in the work of today's session, but not only that, but also for working with us together within the days scheduled for a public debate. So organized and round table. The organiser was the Secretariat of the province and the round table discussed the bill's proposals. One of the proposals, which took place by the Secretariat's representatives, was to establish the obligations of the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Finance, when it comes to the need to take additional measures, and in order to make local self-government more serious and to make it known to them that they have to work towards the adoption of the annual programme. You have also come up with the idea that this law should also be precise and that is why it is then proposed to add the provision "without delay". So, the minister responsible for agricultural affairs without delay informs the finance minister of the need to suspend the transfer of funds. We accepted it, but in the meantime we had one amendment that accepted this, and it defines the time limit more precisely, so it said, without delay, and no later than 15 days. We accepted that amendment, which means acceptance and what you suggested within the round table that was August 7th and later through the amendments. I want to thank you for this proposal, as well as to say that this is how we accepted the Agency's suggestion to fight corruption. As for the LSV MPs who say the ministry should take on the obligation in case local self-government does not bring in an annual programme, that this same programme prepares and brings in the ministry, I must say that under the applicable law, Article 64 of Article 5, is scheduled to do so right now by the AP Vojvodina. So far, this inability has not been used. The province did not respond and did not bring in a program for the account of local self-government. Just enough to know the exact information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45827	National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. I would like to thank the president of the AP Vojvodina for his contribution to the work of today's session. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45828	Thank you. Our amendment focuses on an idea that exists in the member – if local self-government does not bring in an annual plan of planning, protecting and using agricultural land, then it should be denied transfer funds. What was the idea and MPs of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, a colleague within our Assembly, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency, is that this provision in the original text of the law represents a very, very wide field of corruption because of discretionary powers. Therefore, there is no time limit for the Ministry of Agriculture and Finance's Minister for Temporary Termination of Transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The minister shared with us that they accepted the amendment, part of the amendment, we had the same idea, "without delay", you add 15 days, within 15 days. He can't do both. It is either "without delay" or "in 15 days", but well, your will. If it's such a formulation not to accept the amendment to the Assembly, okay, but if it isn't, then it's not good. If it is "in 15 days" at the latest, it is something else, but the problem is that such an accepted amendment, which improves this solution, in several narrows, is good that you accepted it, whoever signed it, but there are situations where no annual programme of regulation, protection and use of agricultural land can help. It is an example of you from 16 November 2015 when land of 1,500 hectares in Zrenjanin is registered under the Agreement of the Government of Serbia, the City of Belgrade and the Republic Property Directorate on the PKK. This land was exported because Zrenjanin had an annual land use plan. So, you have people who paid for the land, and one of them is called Jovan Drakulić, a farmer from Centa, you have people who paid for the rent and use, you have the City of Zrenjanin, and I like to be well managed, and the government, the Property Directorate, and the City of Belgrade have entered that land on the PKK. Unfortunately, there may be no direct responsibility for you and the trouble is that you will be held responsible for something that is making decisions in a completely different place, but this example shows how important it is to clearly define what happens when a city or municipality makes an annual programme. How is it possible, then, if the city, as the City of Zrenjanin did, is all correct, that 1,500 hectares are still registered as the property of the PKK due to a decision in the Serbian government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45829	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45830	Just for a little while. The amendment, which reads as follows: "A moment and no later than 15 days", has been accepted, so there is no misunderstanding. It is an amendment submitted by several MPs, and the essence of the amendment is such that it covers the interest of most other MPs, and above all MEPs of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. As for these transactions relating to PKK agricultural land, etc., I will remind you that the 2008-2009 agreements, agreements concluded between the Government, the Property Directorate, the PKK. So, so much for this part that concerns the attribution of agricultural land, the PKK Corporation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45831	Thank you. Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic and MPs Djordje Milicevic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45832	I thank the president. Dear Madam Minister, the respected representatives of the ministry, representatives of the province's parliament, we fully accept what Mr. Pastor just said. So we accept that this is our common amendment, right, the initiative was launched by the province's parliament. We have in just one way further specified what was intended to be achieved by the province's parliament's initiative, and it is about harmonising the Ministry of Agriculture's obligations towards the Ministry of Finance. So, the amendment that we are talking about and which has been accepted further specifies the goal that is to be achieved will enable better application of the law and will enable what is also very important and serious and responsibility in the work of local self-government. We, of course, thank the representatives of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, for accepting this amendment, as well as for accepting a number of other amendments that we will also talk about today, and submitted by the MP group of the SPS, but the very fact that the Resoring Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have accepted a number of amendments, not only of the positions, but also of the opposition, confirms and demonstrates the clear intention and resolute ministry and government that through the debate, through dialogue in the Republic of Serbia, we come to a more high quality legal framework that will be in the interest of our citizens, but above all in the interest of farmers. So, after a quality debate, a public debate, after quality talks, which are conducted with representatives, with farmers, with associations, with associations, this debate continues in the previous days and today in the Republic's parliament, and not everything is said at the beginning of the debate in principle, that everything is over and that it is all bad, and it is not all bad, but we will have a quality legal framework and, in addition to the amendments that will be accepted during today's debate, we will be able to further specify certain provisions and improve this legal framework. So we fully agree. It is necessary to reach a compromise, to achieve the broad consensus of all stakeholders, when we are talking specifically about this system law and it is good that you have respected most of the suggestions and proposals that could be heard during the public debate. If there are open issues, we are for these open issues to be resolved through dialogue, through conversation. If it didn't work out during the public debate, it could be here in the Republic Parliament, here today, during a debate on amendments, not on street protests. It is not a way to reach a better legal framework, and that is not how the interests of farmers are represented, but, I think, some other interests, but I wouldn't talk about it. It is very important that you have seen all the suggestions and suggestions, that most of these suggestions and suggestions are accepted, that everything that could have been accepted is accepted and that it does not mean classification on one side, on the side of one of the branches of agriculture. Not all wishes can be fulfilled, it's not realistic, it's not logical, but I repeat, most of the suggestions and the proposal are respected and it's accepted. Today, during the debate in particular, the thesis that the law will not fit and will not be good for Vojvodina will not be good for central Serbia. To be clear, we are adopting a quality legal framework and we will adopt a quality law that will also apply in the northern part of Serbia, i.e. Vojvodina and central Serbia. The problem is that someone wants to take away land from farmers, that is, small farmers will lose land and land for cultivation. Unfortunately, the facts say that, to the most extent, they still do not have, because of the poor practice of the previous period, which you, Madam Minister, spoke about in the opening statement, the discussions in principle, where we had one practice that local self-government, a certain part of the highest quality land, remained unequivocal, and then somehow by silent consent, always appear the same persons who process the country without compensation and collect income only for their known reasons. This law is just about to introduce order and land policy, and it needs to give us an answer to that key question, and the key question for us is, who is usurping, and who is legally using the agricultural land? When we get an answer to that question, we will also get an answer to the other question, which is – who and why does the adoption of this legislative proposal bother us? At the very end, therefore, this law does not deal with the sale of agricultural land to foreign natural and legal persons, this law deals exclusively with the sale of agricultural land to small agricultural producers, but this is something agreed with associations, associations, farmers, which was precise and clearly defined. It is our pleasure that another amendment was adopted in this context, I think, by colleagues Risticevic and the SPS Parliament Club, that the payment deadline should not be five years. We want to adopt a law that will be in the interest of Serbian farmers, which will strengthen and strengthen small agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45833	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the session of the 14th extraordinary session in 2015, chose Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor. Article 83(1) The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is scheduled for the Republic Public Prosecutor to take an oath before the National Assembly. Accordingly, I call on Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac of the Republic Public Prosecutor to approach for the purpose of taking an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the Republic Public Prosecutor repeats. I swear to my glass that I will protect the public prosecutor's office with loyalty, conscience and unbiased protection of the constitution and lawfulness, human rights and civil liberties. “ Thank you. I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor to sign and hand over the text of the oath. I thank you both on my own behalf and on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to congratulate you on your choice and wish you a great deal of success in your work. The amendment is proposed by Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45834	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already said this is just a little bit of an updated amendment to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. It only provides that the deadline that the ministry is without delay, as they have suggested, but no later than 15 days that the ministry must sanction the non-provision of the programme on local self-government territory, i.e. the decision to call a public ad. So that's where we figured out wanting to avoid the situation that the circuit assembly had to make a correction to its amendment, we just added that it was 15 and that there had to be an ad. So local self-government doesn't bring in the program, and then it doesn't call out an ad, and then it doesn't make any sense to us, and then it doesn't make any sense. That was the only reason we had to correct their amendment a little bit. Otherwise, I must tell you that the creators of this bill are not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She only transferred it, that the real creators of "Spas Kraljeno" Association, Association of milk producers of Serbia, Banatski paori, Association of cattle breeders "Shabac", Association of milk producers "Vojvodine", Association "Voćar" Leskovac, Association of growers of Serbia, Union of agricultural producers "Sremska Mitrovica", Alliance of peasants and other associations. We have a total of 14 corrections of 17 members. In these 14 amendments, at least 50 amendments were contained, making individuals, which associations, which party of opposition rulings. Since only one amendment can be submitted to one member, we have taken the right to bring all these good ideas together and to have 14 corrections to 17 members, and thus to enrich the bill that was submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of a draft by the associations I spoke about, and the processing also, the Government has only accepted amendments that also provided associations, political parties, individuals, individual MPs, etc. No matter who is author of the amendment, I want to thank all those who have contributed at least one letter of thanks to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45835	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Thank you. National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45836	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with fellow Members, honored guests and respected fellow Members, I am deeply convinced that this member is unconstitutional, and this has been spoken of by my colleagues, and I urge you once again to consider how harmful it is to adopt such a bill, that is, this article. Namely, my amendment refers to that in Article 3 you have predicted that if units of local self-government do not bring in the programme in time, etc., it says - temporarily suspends the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. My amendment and proposal is that if the local self-government unit does not adopt a programme, the ministry's proposal will initiate the procedure for determining the responsibility of the competent person and giving the penalty measure for not passing the programme. Why did I suggest this? Dear Minister, I think that in this Assembly, we've passed maybe 10 laws that predict the possibility for local administrations to abolish transfers in the case, so then, the Law on Spatial Planning tells some of their reasons, the Law on the Law on the Legislation of Some of Their Reasons, etc. So I'm absolutely certain and aware that you have a big problem, and that's what the ministers themselves are saying in this room, that 90% of the president of the municipality and the mayor in the last three years has done his job badly. If you were to lift the transfers to local administrations according to your model as planned, the damage would be to the citizens of local administrations. So, removing transfer funds on some basis means that kindergarten teachers won't get paid. So if you have incompetent presidents of municipalities and mayors, start proceedings against them, replace them, replace the responsible persons, but don't let the citizens of a certain local administration suffer the consequences of their incompetence. So, this proposal is extremely unconstitutional, and it is to the detriment of the citizens of the local administration, and I believe that my amendment should be accepted. You, Your Honor, were probably going to impress us with this information that you brought in in this table. We probably have a special impression that everything here is red on this table. When we analyzed it a little bit better, we saw what the problem was. A little help here, and Mr. Arsic helped us. According to Mr. Arsic, the presidents of the municipalities, probably again from 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, meant 150 of the presidents of the municipality and of the mayor of SNS, worked by, as he said, connecting with tycoons and businessmen and that it was appropriate for them not to do their job and that we have so many red fields here. So gentlemen, here's the report that says, analyzed 2012, 2013. 2014 and 2015, around land leases at local level. This report directly states in favour of this claim, that you and this Article 3 were actually planning to punish citizens of local administrations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45837	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. Please, just let me see the order, 'cause I've got a lot of reports. Mr. Orlic by amendment, Milija Miletic by amendment. You'll get Mr. Arsic, but I have to... Mrs. Boskovic, you after the amendment, too. So Mr. Arsic has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45838	Well, there's another question now. If these are local self-governments that need to be disbanded because of this, it's a violation of constitutionally designed norms. And why would we from the SNS, if this were true, be passing a law like this? Let's count how many municipalities there are in Serbia, where is the DS still in power or some of its surrogates? This is about this being a trendy, more than 1.5 decades, more than 1.5 decades, and these commissions that make up the plan and the lease programme, the commissions that were established in the largest number of cases before 2012. And when you want a member of the commission to switch, right now jump DS and say, "That's political rematchism." You know well, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as well as my previous speaker, are making these plans and programmes to rent agricultural land, but they use what the citizens of Serbia don't know, so they tell the truth here. Agricultural production in Serbia was not destroyed in 2013, but destroyed in 2002, 2003, 2004 and here. Now it needs to be restarted. And all who are against this law must be clear to them, against the fact that Serbian agriculture is developing, is that Serbia has developed agriculture so that speculators who are close to DS can buy grains and sell on world markets, not to export finished products, but to export raw materials to earn them. And the whole story about someone losing land and being prevented from farming is stories for small children. The moment this law goes into service...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45839	Time, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45840	I'm finishing up Mr. Becic. ... The buyers will no longer be able to buy grains, but will be sold to farmers at much better prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45841	Thirty-three seconds will be taken away from your MP's time. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45842	Thank you. Dear People's MP, first in this section concerning the suspension of the transfer of funds to local self-governments that do not respect the obligation to adopt an annual programme and to conduct a public competition, I must say that this is a proposal that has been made by several MPs, by the association, and we want this proposal never to live in the sense that it is necessary to make that decision at all to suspend the funds. We expect this measure to be enough warning for the authorities in local self-government. As for the table you showed, i.e. which I have shown, and you have watched, in any case, for me it is encouraging that you agree with these data that are unequivocal and that clearly state on the ground. This situation is thanks to the current law, a law that has not established a system in land policy, a law that we now want to change, because we are no longer rich enough, nor have we enough time to wait for some authorities in some local self-governments, that those who have usurped land years ago, those who have been privileged now finally come to their senses and that picture changes. So, we don't have time anymore, we don't want to wait, we change the law and we introduce sharper penalties that will certainly put each of us in a position to think about their actions, so there aren't any mistakes as they have been so far, that there are no mistakes from 2002, 2003, 2005, 2011, 2012, 2013. It doesn't matter when, but the situation must finally and definitely change.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45843	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr. Markovicu, you mentioned Mr. Arsic by name and last name, and therefore he had the opportunity for replication, i.e. the right to replication. Mr. Arsic did not mention you in his presentation, so you can only speak according to the amendment. I can only give you over a line of words. Do you want to follow the amendment? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: He spoke directly to me. That's what I thought. But, Mr. Markovic, he must mention your name and name. I can't interpret every MP and his discussion, whether in that discussion he meant exposure to someone. So, the terms of the replica must be mentioned, and the terms of your name and last name or parliamentary group must be mentioned. That's how I estimate, Miss Jovanovic, as the chairman who has the right to do so. I can tell you for a short while - by this article I consider you do not have the right to reply, but I explain to you that you would know for what reason. So, like I gave Mr. Arsic, I'd give it to you if your name was mentioned. Do you want to follow the amendment? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I will follow the amendment later. All right. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45844	Thank you. I call for the amendment not to be accepted, and I declare why. Ladies and gentlemen, to be criticised widely, it must sound a little serious. In order to sound at least a little serious, a proposal that meets at least a minimum of seriousness must be made. I really don't know if there were any amendments to the original text of the amendment. I don't see them. I see this text in the material for today's session corresponds to the original one. It literally reads -- the finance minister, on a proposal from the ministry, is initiating the process of determination. Who now? Minister, the competent authority? As two thoughts joined together, one was to replace one another. So now, what do we get? Both. What does that mean? Well, practically nothing. All that and a spelling mistake. To all this, the opinion of the amendment's proposing that it is not a good proposal from the AP Vojvodina. Well, this already sounds like that model of behavior-- now I won't do what I want. It's gotta be more serious. It's the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45845	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45846	Here, once again according to this amendment. My predecessor colleague, who was already mayor and responsible person in the local parliament, knows the responsibilities. For the first time, let me say, the law now defines itself and puts an accent, primate on agriculture. This article, i.e. this amendment, obliges local self-governments to implement the programme and to issue a public call, i.e. an ad for the registration of that state land. For the first time, it is binding that it does not suffer damage and local self-government, that the land can be processed and the land is put into operation. The most important thing to me is that this law defines that agriculture is now put first. I always speak, as president of the United Peasants' Party, and as a man who comes from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is the municipality of Svrlig, that this is a good law because it obliges local self-government to issue an ad, i.e. an invitation to issue state land. For the first time, agriculture is put first and foremost. We all know how it used to work. We all know that it was binding on local self-government just to get the budget, to have the Assembly held once in three months, and now we have to call a competition and to issue land. This is a big deal for our farmers, because this law allows agriculture and agriculture to be put first in local self-government. I hope that, in the next few laws, we will have an obligation for local self-government to allocate at least 7% to 8% of the budget for villages and agriculture, not as some municipalities that single out 1% to 2% for agriculture, and everything else is set aside for other things. I call again on fellow Members of Parliament not to accept the amendment, the amendment, because I think that the existing bill and amendments that she has even supported and proposed to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is in the proposal. So I'm calling on everyone not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45847	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45848	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm reporting to support the amendment made by my distinguished colleague. I find it inadmissible, Madam Minister, that because of someone's irresponsibility and inadequacy, who has won the citizens' trust in the elections, you punish the entire local self-government and prevent money transfer. That's inadmissible. So, you have the possibility, you are a member of the Serbian government, and you have the possibility of communicating with a leading minister and is responsible for local self-government. I suppose you're talking to the government and you can look as a ministry, you could have brought here into the law to introduce temporary measures, to change the president of the municipality, the mayor, whatever. But to prevent money transfer, to punish an entire municipality, I don't see how stimulating it is for someone who wants to break the law, or not capable, or knows, or can't. So, because of someone's incompetence, you're punishing the entire county for transfer. I think it's extremely dangerous what you're proposing, that it's not good, and I think it's deeply unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45849	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45850	Thank you. Dear People's MP, we in the Government are really talking about all the problems, including the issues of agriculture. You asked me if we were talking? Of course we are talking, together we make decisions and decisions that are in the interest of Serbian citizens. This part about whether or not the decision is constitutional or unconstitutional, I want to comment on only one way that may not have been heard by now, but it is unique. Is anyone also asking whether there is a question of responsibility to the agro-ecological year, the agro-economic year and farmers who, because of someone's unsustainableness, irresponsibility, and because of waiting for problems to be solved elsewhere and on another level, will be left without sown parcels, without contributions and without income for life?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45851	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45852	Dear Minister, what you just said is our key argument. I know you can't initiate a procedure to change over a hundred presidents of the municipality and mayors because they don't do their job, but the Budget Law in seven places mentions the abolition of the transfer to local administrations if the president of the municipality didn't do it. In the laws, ten laws, not to list them here, it's the same thing. So you're in a position where some president of the municipality doesn't call the program all year, that the ministry can't make its decisions and consent, and that all year round at the Centre for Social Work doesn't get paid or kindergartens in some local administration. I'm just about to tell you - if someone is incompetent and has not done their job, change it, punish it, give them a chance to have someone under it removed, fired from work, etc., not put the entire local administrations at risk. The colleagues who declare this law in this way simply don't speak seriously about themselves and I think they should consider their own statement today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45853	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45854	Just a few words. Thank you. It's clear to me, Mrs. Bogosavljevic, that this is your policy. What I'm saying, I'm telling the citizens who are watching this transmission, I'm telling the Nislims, to see that they have an alternative to your policy. You're punishing the entire local self-government because someone didn't create a plan and program. You mean Nishu, if Nis doesn't, you'll deny 650 million dinar transfers. Why? Because someone who worked in the agriculture department didn't make a plan and a program. That's a lot. Now, that's the difference between your policy and ours. We're going to be responsible for whoever made the mistake, and you're punishing the entire local self-government and that's the fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45855	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45856	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected viewers, respected citizens, now I have to show you what the Serbian Parliament looks like when it is - now I won't do what I want to do. Let's take it in a row. On August 17th, the Regional Government, the regional secretary, the secretary of agriculture, water and forestry, say this, in a draft to add – unless the unit of local self-government adopts a programme under Article 2, in accordance with the provisions of this article, the finance minister will suspend, on a proposal from the Ministry, the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. a corresponding part of the income tax to that local self-government unit, until he does so, according to the AP Vojvodina, or the Regional Secretariat of the Regional Government. Let's move on. Amendments to the bill. The Parliament of the Republic of Serbia shall submit an amendment to the AP Vojvodina, following Article 6, a new position 7 which reads: "if the unit of local self-government does not adopt the programme referred to in Article 2, in accordance with the provisions of this article, the Ministry shall without delay inform the Minister of Finance's tasks, which temporarily suspends the transfer of the transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, or the corresponding part of the income tax to that local self-government unit, until the obligation has been implemented. We only added - within 15 days. Come on, guys, make a deal. Did you split up into two parties? A little thing like that can't be torn apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45857	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Marjana Maraš. Here you go, Miss Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45858	Thank you, Chairman. I look at this Article 3 from another angle, and I think it will just contribute to bringing local self-governments in time to an annual programme of planning and use of agricultural land because one mechanism is being created for mayors and presidents of municipalities who will use this legal solution, so that they do not come into a situation so as not to bring an annual programme of planning and use of agricultural land. Transfers are something that is very important for the functioning of every local self-government and will use all its competences to bring the program in time and public advertising, so we will not get into a situation that has been so far and in my local self-government, not to bring the program in time. This is a legal measure that will certainly speed up and improve the adoption of an annual programme for the planning and use of agricultural land and will certainly benefit both the mayors and the presidents of municipalities and those who decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45859	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 3, that position 3 is disputed, or it is denied. Some more amendments predict its erasure. But actually, it's the simplest mechanism that this programme has to be done and based on further lease procedures and fund-raising on that basis. The whole local self-government needs to suffer now because someone doesn't bring in the program, and it's not a policy that can pass and that there are illogicalities, it's absolutely unfounded and it can't be accepted. In fact, both the president of the municipality and all authorities in that local self-government must respect certain obligations because by failing to meet these obligations, they personally contribute to the failure of the system. If a certain local self-government on this or on some other basis doesn't get the transfers it needs to get, they're responsible for it, they need to account for the citizens. They are incompetent and they should suffer certain political and other consequences. We can't replace the thesis. So, because of the failure of certain obligations by the authorities of local self-government, responsibility is borne by the ministry or perhaps, if you will, by the Prime Minister or by the President of the Republic. Let's not turn things upside down. These are quite simple things and quite one mechanism that makes sense. The thing is, we have to turn to the obligations we have to carry out if we want to function and if we want the order of things to be in that place suitable for citizens in every local self-government. That's what the presidents of the municipalities and all those below are responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45861	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Markovic, do you want to go back to the amendment? You have no right. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have the right to reply.]] (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I was misread. You have no right. I couldn't express Mr. Miletic that I had the opportunity and the assessment that you had the right to the replica. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: But he didn't speak at all about my amendment.) Well, then why are you answering if he hasn't spoken about your amendment? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I was misread in the discussion. You can't, Mr. Markovic, you can't have a word. If you follow the debate, you can see that MPs only get the word if their name and last name are mentioned. I can even tolerate that it is not in a negative context, but it must be a condition to mention their name and name, that it is directly communicated with that MP. I cannot interpret the presentation of every MP and discussion and seek in this discussion the possibility of someone being misread. Each of you in the National Assembly could say that he was misread. Here, ask any MPs that at this point, they might not be able to say that their exposure was misread. So if we establish that rule, then there's no end. So it has to be something drastic so we can have the conditions for replication. Thank you. Mr. Mihajlović has the word. Why did you call again? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the Fourth Amendment. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45862	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Article 4 is one of these very problematic corrupt members of the law where it is said that agricultural land in state property can be given for use without payment of compensation, and it is agricultural land which has not been used in previous years. What's missing in this article and why we don't even agree with this member is that you have no obligation at all that agricultural land was leased, so no one took it, and then you give it to zero dinars. No, but you're talking here, simply, agricultural land that couldn't have been leased for a variety of reasons, maybe because no one offered it, so no one could have hired it, so we're not talking about some kind of fair procedure where maybe it was a bid, so no one offered it, so we're giving it up for zero dinars now. No, we're giving your discretional right again, we're talking about your discretionary right to simply offer some land for zero dinars, although there's no evidence that nobody wanted to rent that land. It's just that maybe that land couldn't be rented sooner. You are, ma'am, Bogosavljevic Boskovic, here we are now talking about your data. In 2012, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, according to your presentation with a public debate, about 289,613 hectares were issued, almost 270,000 hectares on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, or 85% of the total farmland on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. According to the same team of your data from the public debate, it was leased 240,000 hectares in 2014. It is an obvious inability for the government of the Republic of Serbia to have its own resources. Have you done any analysis of why this land was not leased in 2014? What are the reasons why this happened? Well, it's only then that you're offering for zero dinars. No, we're simply, now you're saying, or some land isn't leased, it's a property perhaps not even offered and you're simply deciding without any criteria to give it to zero dinars another of these very corrupt members of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45863	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45864	Dear People's MPs, it is true that we have proposed that agricultural land which is not used for agricultural production, at least three agro-economic years we offer to give for free use. It is true that in the course of public debates as a suggestion from the negotiators, we have been given the opportunity of public competition, regardless of the land that has not been used in the previous three years, and we have adopted and accepted it. The land that will be given for free use will be given through public competition with the starting price of zero dinars. What does that mean? This means that that land that was not used for agriculture three years ago will be reused, and in case it is more interested there will be a public competition with the starting price of zero dinars. This is usually a formulation that was accepted by participants in a public debate, first of all, by the regional secretariat. We have, through this explanation of the amendments that have been submitted in the context of this article, shown that we have also accepted objections, or suggestions from the Anti-Corruption Agency, so that there is virtually nothing that is indisputable, and that you are now mentioning data which, of course, data about renting land from year to year are changing. That's true, but the fact is that back a few years around 30% of available surfaces are being issued. So one year is 240 thousand, the second year is 250, the third year is 270. Basically, accurate data in a hectare doesn't matter here. It is important how much of the total part of the land available is the subject of agricultural use. We want the agricultural land that is in state property, which is good of general interest to be exploited much, much more than the existing 30%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45865	Time. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45866	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well, I urge that we do not accept this amendment for all of those reasons that the Government has delivered to us in the opinion, but also all of those reasons that the minister has just explained to us. In order not to repeat all these reasons, I must explain, or ask a question, to you, Mr. Chairman, well, you pass on the question. So, from our oral explanation, we've heard that the member is corrupt, a proposed member who's scheduled to delete. I have to ask, what is this corruption looking at? Where do you see this corruption? We have in no way heard a single argument of what a corrupt member actually means. Whether this corruption is reflected in the fact that for years and years only large producers, large ones, not to say tycoons, Croatian tycoons, which thousands and thousands of hectares of exclusively the best countries had the opportunity to rent under very suspicious conditions. Now, that's corruption we're talking about. This law prevents corruption. We increase transparency, we offer better conditions to small producers, ordinary producers and everything the minister just said that I would not repeat. It is indeed a classic replacement of thesis and I appeal to all to reject this and all similar, very irresponsible amendments that come from the ranks of the party of the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45867	Thank you. Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45868	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on article 4, which reads in the text as suggested by the province's secretary of the province's government on 17 August, almost as the amendment they submitted to item 4. is the only difference between the initial price. They have proposed one dinar, and colleagues who will deal with biomass problems will explain why the abandoned agricultural land is 830 hectares with the lease issue of only 248,000 531 thousand in Serbia's territory subject or usurpation. For me, what's worse than usurping is that it's abandoned, it's not processed, for that reason it's the provisions of Article 4. What I have endured and my colleagues referred to energy and other colleagues will explain this, but I am obliged to say again that members of the party of the former regime agree whether they were one party in Vojvodina, in the Vojvodjan Assembly because they proposed – If the agricultural land covered by the annual programme for the protection of the organisation and use of agricultural land was not the subject of the lease of at least the last three agro-economic years, nor was it the subject of use on another permitted basis, left and not issued after the end of the lease of certain units of local self-government, this agricultural land can be used for agricultural production of natural and legal persons for a period of up to five years after the reopening of public competition at the starting price of one dinar. There's only one difference between zero and one dinar. So once again, I show that they won't even do what they wanted. I've already said that I don't know whether it's a single party or not anymore, but in any case, it's a sinking ship, and there's no salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45869	Thank you. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. The word is Branislav Bogkoski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45870	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow ministers, MPs, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina adopted Amendment 2 on November 17th concerning Article 4. The bill and I must begin to say that this amendment does not seem to be properly understood. In fact, the difference between the solution proposed in the bill and the solutions proposed by the AP Vojvodina Assembly is not the fact that the initial bid price is zero dinars or one dinar, but the difference in something else entirely. and we have tried this amendment to ensure that the land offered under privileged conditions, and these are definitely privileged conditions, and there is a basis for some amount of land to be offered under privileged conditions because so far it has not been the subject of interest for farmers, therefore, that this land is certainly established as a land for which farmers were not interested. So that it must first be in the annual programme, offered for public competition, so that farmers do not show interest in this land in public competition, and only then can we talk about opportunities to be offered under privileged conditions. This is how it is currently formulated in the law, which is that it is a land that was not subject to use leaves the possibility that the land that has been usurped or used in some gray zone that is formally managed as unused land, and in fact the illegal way is offered in this privileged procedure and started with the bidding, that even from zero or one dinar essentially does not matter. So, the meaning of what we suggest that the first all land must go through the annual protection and regulation programme of agricultural land, be offered for public competition, so that when clearly and doubtless through three attempts to prove that there are no interested in this land, then the possibility of preferential treatment and the issue of that land at a price of zero or one dinar, or how much interest has already been shown. It is stated in the explanation why the amendment submitted by the Regional Assembly was rejected, in this way allowing for public competition at the starting price of zero dinars and that land...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45871	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45872	... which was in the annual programme, which the local self-government didn't bring, so that's exactly not supposed to happen, if local self-government doesn't bring in an annual programme, we can't believe that this land isn't interesting to farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45873	Thank you, Mr. Bogorski, you have the same time as the minister, two minutes per amendment. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go. Come in again. Here you go, Mrs. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45874	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues from the ministry, gentlemen from the province and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would not repeat the content of this amendment, I would just like to emphasise what has been given and, in the light of the LSD Vojvodina Group, that this solution, which we have proposed, is being warned that, possibly, some land for speculative reasons is exempt from the annual programme and thus, under more favourable conditions, to be used. Also, the conditions that land was not subject to use are added on a second permitted basis, thus ensuring that under a more favourable condition the right to use land that has been illegally used, since, according to the draft law, the lease of such land is disabled under more favourable conditions. I stress this illegal use. We are constantly facing the failure of our inspections, not only when it comes to agricultural land, but we have a problem with it at all. I ask the question, how can illegal use of hundreds of acres of land be possible and that no one can see it and that it is generally known who is using it and that the inspection does not respond, do we not have enough inspectors, or do they not do their job? As far as I know, there are only three inspectors set up by the Republic of Vojvodina. The province has no jurisdiction over inspection, no locals either. I'm sorry. My colleague's filling me in. He's got me. But everything in everything somewhere there is a problem in function, and I'm listening to that story from Srem, because there's a family there and I hear that it's absolutely known who's been usurping back the land for years, and that's why they're now showing up at thousands of acres in your calculations that it's just not the land that's being used adequately. That's why I'm asking for inspections to work the way they're supposed to. Secondly, as far as I know in the answer that you gave your colleague to the question of functioning inspections maybe a month or two ago, it was said that due to its validity, the Law on the Prohibit of Employment in the Public Sector will not yet be employed by inspectors. It's unacceptable that in Vojvodina, which has thousands of acres of land, we've heard about 450 thousand here, it doesn't matter, two million acres, we've only got three inspectors and nothing's going on on that plan, it doesn't happen, it just turns out that the one who doesn't work by law is going to meet him, and the one who works by law has a problem. And simply in that sense, we gave this amendment just to sort of specify, define, that these things don't happen. The more detailed the law, the more secure it is, as soon as it provides a possibility for different interpretations, we will have problems on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45875	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Mrs. Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45876	Thank you. I think it's a misunderstanding. So when it comes to land to free use, the first condition is that it is not leased, it means that it is not leased and unused. That includes this case of usurping that you're talking about. If it's usurped in one of the previous three years, then it's no longer for the purpose that we're predicting this member, but it's going into a regular lease program. So all the land that is in state property for the area of one municipality, the Catastrian municipality, must enter the annual programme. So our formulation is broader than the formula you're proposing and the Regional Secretariat. In that regard, I want to say on the subject of speculation. I think that they are completely excluded by the fact that this land will be placed on public competition, there will be no third round, as proposed by the Regional Secretariat, for purely practical technical reasons, because it is necessary to organise two rounds, in order for the land to be leased and to be able to be processed according to agro-ecological deadlines. If we let it be the third round, we would, in practice, waste valuable time. This way with public competition, with a starting price of zero dinars, we simply provide one transparency in this process, practically not giving us the opportunity to speculate and solve the problem. On the subject of inspection services, 18 inspectors are involved in agricultural land. Inspectors have been deployed throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, they are efficient, I think they are effective enough when it comes to how many infringements have been filed, about 111 at present we have an initiative to translate agricultural holdings into passive status, right on the Vojvodina municipality, that is enough to say that they are effective, of course we will try to further strengthen these capacities and organise them well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45877	Mr. Nikolic, have you responded to this amendment? Here you go, then. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45878	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and members of the Government, I am a man of the nature of the business, as an entrepreneur of an industrialist, very rarely commend something, because my rule is, everything you can do today, don't leave for tomorrow. But I really must commend this law, I have participated actively in all the committees, and this is the law by me, for the first time in 25 years, that someone is bringing something smart, that we can start what we can do, what can make Serbia richer, more employed and increase the gross standard of our citizens. All politicians, let's remind ourselves since 1999, so here, talking, we have no quality, so quantity. It's true we don't. What did anyone do to have him? Here's the government headed by the Vucima Minister, who I kind of criticize and praise, but when something's good, it should be commended, so I'm doing it now. This law is really real, because every inch of the country needs to be employed, and we have nothing to look for in electronics, because that's where we've been late and lost, we've ruined everything through the globalisation of the Serbian economy since 2000, and here, so our only option and hope for a large number of unemployed to return to jobs is to organize...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45879	Mr. Nikolic, you have to speak for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45880	I'm done. I'm on my way to the amendment. Here, we will put every inch of the country into office and thus solve Serbia's gross product, and thus, what farmers with small possessions could not have so far, will have a great chance of adding up their property and thus reducing the cost of production.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45881	The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45882	Thank you very much, I just wanted to ask a question, practically as a replica of the Minister's office, will each lease have to be attended and the inspector, given that it's big surfaces, and is there an inspector present, when the bidding is conducted, and can he wash everything out? I'm going back on the subject of the number of inspectors, and can they do all that is set before them? I'm not starting to assume that they're not doing their job well, but that they're going to be able to do whatever they have to do, so to speak, bids, and not take time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45883	You have no basis, you must follow the next amendment, Madam Minister. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Marjana Maras and Milan Latkovic. Do you want it now, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45884	Here's to taking this opportunity, to remind you of Article 9. The Agricultural Land Act, which clearly speaks of how it is introduced into the possession of a new tenant, and I will remind you of the agricultural service, within the framework of local self-government, which has the purpose and the obligation to establish, record the plot and place it in possession, and our competent inspection controls the implementation of the law, so that local self-government, agricultural service, agricultural inspection, us in the Ministry and the competent services, local self-government can certainly respond to the task provided for by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45885	The word is proposed by the amendment, National MP Marjana Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45886	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I, along with fellow Members of Parliament from the Parliament Club, have proposed that this deadline for appeal be extended for 30 days. The reasons for the refusal of the amendment states that the general deadline for appeal is 15 days in the administrative procedure, so as not to accept this amendment. We accept your argument for refusing the amendment, but I want here as an authorised applicant for the amendment, to point out that in this article, as you said, the land which was not the subject of the lease and was not used, can be given at zero dinars, by public competition. It is also a very important provision under this law that will help us to have as few countries as possible that are not being processed. In the reasons for certain amendments, I came across the fact that as many as 330,000 ha were not the subject of a lease or an annual programme to regulate the use of agricultural land, which is about 40%. It was one of the motives that these 30% of state land could be given to legal persons. I am also pleased that the submission of the amendment will not only be one legal person, but more legal persons, can be given to use with investment plans. Of course, this law also contains provisions that allow small farmers and medium-sized people for the first time to buy state agricultural land, under certain conditions to buy it, and if they have up to 30 ha, to buy no more than 20 ha. I think fellow MP Marijan Risticevic has proposed the amendment that the same purchase could not exceed 400,000 ha, and thus we will strengthen our small and medium-sized agricultural producers. They will have more quality production and will be more competitive on the market. Of course, those amendments that were submitted by others, by introducing that they had to live for five years and that they had to be in active status three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45887	Thank you, Miss Marash. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45888	Thank you. In order to comply with the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency which had objections to Article 4. For all those who do not know what this article is, which may be a source of corruption, it is an extension of up to 25 years of lease if the agricultural inspector finds that the user handles this land, and for areas over 10 ha, the period of use of agricultural land can only be extended if the investment user gets the consent of the ministry. That's how it was in the basic text. We change it completely, Article 4, and the Anti-Corruption Agency believes that the proposed legislative solution to the ministry and units of local self-government is given broad discretion when deciding on an extension of use. The result is an amendment that has been accepted. Now it's quite unfortunate to explain the amendment to a member who practically doesn't exist. Whether the majority of votes will be adopted during the vote or has already been adopted, if both the proposal and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives have agreed, it is less important. However, it is important to note, then, that our amendment is not envisaged, but the amendment adopted provides that agricultural land, which is now no longer a provision as in the basic text, is more specifically explained how the leases occur and why public competition can, therefore, be granted under the same conditions to persons involved in the production of energy from renewable sources of biomass and livestock, with the use period being up to 30 years, with the approval of investment works. There will be a misapplication of the Land Protection Act here, since you have annual programs on the planning, use and purpose of land run by local self-government. You've been given the law here for just one kind of purpose that will be a possible lease. I understand, the intention is good, I'm inclined to have serious dialogue and, in the future, serious land plans for renewable energy sources. I understand this intention, I just express concern that it will be as the way to hell is paved with good intentions, because it can happen to you that municipalities, so it's written like this, gives you the opportunity to have municipalities say now – yeah, here it will allow me to give it at least 25 years old and then make their annual plans to use the arrangements and purposes of agricultural land, which is not quite good, because not every municipality can do that if it's about biomass and livestock. So, our amendment less, it doesn't make sense anymore, because it's adopted, but the procedure for the debate in particular is such that it has to be discussed even though the amendment has been adopted in the meantime. What remains unclear in this proposed amendment is that if there is an investment, then for a surface area of more than 10 ha and this amendment adopted, it may be extended if the user is granted investment works. So he's already, what's this member doing to you? It's not good in the basic text, it's not good in the amendment either. This is interpreted as just coming to you, anyway, with an investment and you say – okay, I have this member, not ten or 15, but this can also be for someone who's already got five or ten, so the attitude is written when you read it. So, when it comes to investment work, what's he gonna invest? He's either gonna build something on that land or he's gonna irrigate or he's gonna build, I don't know, halls, plants, whatever, or he's gonna do glass gardens. So he's going to build something on that land, it's an investment. Agricultural production is not an investment, it only sows so it works, that we all do what country we know, but this is written so it remains a doubt and a doubt when applied. I do not insist now on the re-debate on the amendment that has been adopted, I just think it would be good to exchange the observations we see in the application of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45889	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45890	Just for a little while. First of all, when it comes to biomass, the land that's supposed to produce biomass, I want to say that we've predicted special reliefs and they're related from the first year of the next 30 years. Biomass in terms of plant cultivation that will ensure continuous supply of bioenergy production plant. These plantations must, of course, comply with the rules of the Environmental Protection Act. This is provided for by the current and valid Agricultural Land Act, and as regards investments that a potential tenant on a given agricultural land could carry out for all investment works that exceed the usual activities on the agricultural land purchased, a potential tenant, an investor, must be given consent from the competent ministry, and, of course, the decision itself shall be made by the local self-government units. So, prior consent, and then final decision by local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45891	Thank you. National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45892	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, in this article, I have proposed a few details about the amendments, and first of all I will start with this item 5, I did not know the moment I wrote the amendment's position of the Anti-Corruption Agency, but it entirely coincides with the thoughts I had at that time when I wrote this amendment. So you're saying in Section 5 that public competition at the starting price of zero dinars, a certain land that hasn't been used for three years, etc., will be leased for a period of five years, and we agree that that's good and that's okay. However, in point 8. you say the following – the period of use of agricultural land under Article 5 may be extended to 25 years, so it goes further – if the agricultural inspector determines that the user is processing this land, etc., etc. So, you have one condition and you have a five-year contract that's signed with a particular person, and then based only on the opinion of one man, in this case it's an agricultural inspector, you can extend that term to 25 years and you don't say anything by what conditions and criteria. So that's something that's a source of corruption and I think in this case the amendment I've proposed can be a solution, which is that for five years you can re-issue that land to that man who worked the land. If you had a five-year contract, I think it's okay to have the extension on the same deadline. The following remark refers to paragraph 3 in this Article where I asked that if the agricultural inspector finds in the record that an unknown person uses agricultural land in state property without legal basis, the competent authority and local self-government units shall make a decision and initiate a criminal application, i.e. liability. Since you've been talking about how much land today is on use in the gray zone, I thought it was a good idea to run through this kind of responsibility and to ask who's using it, why and why the local administration and the ministry aren't responding on this issue, and I later cited it in several other members. However, in light of today's statement by Mr Arsic, who said that most of the presidents of municipalities and mayors in the last three years have found some dealings with investors, with businessmen, with tycoons, then we have, of course, the consequence that the amendment has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45893	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45894	Madam Minister, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will not vote for this amendment. I think the law on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land is a law that applies, even though the dominant debate applied to Vojvodina, that still applies to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. I come from a region where unfortunately the large areas of agricultural land are in a state that is not being processed, which is not being used and I think that such a legal proposal that you have foreseen, which the Government of Aleksandra Vukic adopted, is the chance that the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Serbia will get those people who want to invest, who want to invest, who want to raise orchards, who want to have their income primarily from that agricultural land, but that we also increase the income of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, it is somewhat hypocritical to refer to agricultural land and to the citizens of Vojvodina those who are concerned about agriculture, but also to many other things in Serbia, a policy that could fit into one sentence. The one sentence is that the pastures were converted into city building land, and the city’s building land was traded for agricultural land. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Is this an amendment? I don't know, Mr. Becic, why someone's nervous, and he talked about the presidents of the municipality and everything and everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45895	Please, Mr. Granny, link it to the amendment. Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45896	I know that some things hurt and that some things don't answer and that they don't want to hear them, but I still listened carefully to everyone, including the amendment promoter. I would ask you not to talk about it this way. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: In what way? The pastures were transformed into city-building land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45897	Don't throw it away, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45898	... So I learned that at the age of 30 and a few, as I was then, I realized that, in addition to the temple of St. Sava, in the 21st century, there were still pastures, so that these pastures were later made through the will of the former regimes and parties and individuals from the former regime turned into city-building land, and then housing complexes were built on them, but not for our society, not for the citizens of Belgrade or Serbia, but for them personally and individually. What conditions were they looking for then? What were the conditions then that this agricultural land would likely, as soon as it was a pasture and what made it a city-building land? No, they didn't care, because that's how they came home, got bored, and got a roof over the head of a minister in the government of the DS. What we're also hearing about these days is how city-building land changes for agricultural land, so I'm very interested in what conditions they've asked for, and if any conditions have been granted when land in state property, worth 1.54 billion dinars, one billion dinars and 540 million dinars have changed... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: What conditions? Mr. Markovic, you asked me about the terms. Don't be nervous. I don't do that. He's in the DA's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45899	Please, Mr. Markovic, no one has interrupted your exposure. Be parliamentary and listen to your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45900	There's no reason to be nervous. When you have the right to talk about the ability or incompetence of anyone, you say what conditions you've asked for to change construction land worth 1.54 billion dinars for agricultural land of the same area, but unfortunately, worth 13 million dinars. What conditions did you seek when you damaged the state of Serbia by a billion and 400 million dinars? Did you ask then? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Me? Well, that was... Those who excavate, say: "I, then you voted for the Serbian government, then voted for the minister who, by one signature, damaged more than 1.4 billion dinars. Did you then stand up and say – what are the conditions? Well, why would building land, which is more expensive per difolt, change for the same area of agricultural land? Did that protection of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia occur to you at the time, or did it occur to you only to protect the interests and interests of certain companies? Did you then ask what would be invested? Did you ask for opinions then, who, whose? Perhaps tax administrations, so the tax administration would tell you -- you can't, gentlemen, change construction land owned by the state of Serbia worth 1.54 billion dinars for agricultural land who knows where worth 13 million dinars. Would they do that if it was your property? Would you trade something that has 100 times less value? Is that a protection of goods? Is that keeping the land? Is that a state-guarding thing? Is that keeping our society safe? Who benefited from this, agricultural producers or ministers in the government of the DS, privileged companies, privileged companies? Who benefited? Now you and those, whose signature may not have been on such a contract, but they voted for those ministers whose signature was on such a contract now care for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are now taking care of agricultural producers, now worry about whether something will be transparent, are now being appointed as lawyers of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and they too have disputes with the Anti-Corruption Agency, right around these pastures, behold, miracles, unreported, forgotten, upgraded. Just those, who are now representing themselves as lawyers of steam and agricultural producers, put in their pockets more than 500,000 euros and in some magical way donated by the state just ran over the vineyards, just passed and ended up again in Vrakar, in apartments, in bars, in old-timers. Just not where it was meant to be. There's a lot of cases like that. We're ready. The Serbian Progressive Party is ready to conduct dialogue and accept amendments and say – well, this is better, we will go after what is better, but don't, please, let us have you and those in disputes both with the state and with the agencies, in disputes with both laws and human and God, now respect and care for the fate of agricultural producers. Because so many examples of humiliation and humiliation as well as agricultural producers, as well as all other people in our country, have experienced in the past 15, 16 years, that it is a small session to read each one of these examples. On every such amendment and every swearing of honesty, I'm going to open another example like this. (Jovan Markovic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45901	Mr. Markovic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45902	This is a law that gives people a chance to stay in the country, to get land, to expand production. This is a chance for some new people...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45903	Mr. Markovic, I'm going to have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45904	Mr. Becic, it's no problem... (Jovan Markovic, from the city: He throws me Risticevic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45905	I'm only asking you to listen to the debate officer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45906	Mr. Becic, it's not a problem. I'm used to that hate that's been showering on SNS every day. I was used to doing much worse, and I wasn't afraid of them when they were much stronger, stronger, and much more ossious. Now all they have is haughtiness, so it's not a problem, you don't have to protect me. This amendment is not acceptable to the SNS. The law will be voted upon by the amendments the government has adopted, and this law will be passed, because I think this law gives a chance and gives an opportunity to the largest number of people in Serbia to deal with agricultural production, and therefore not only to strengthen their finances and their economy, but to finance and the economy of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45907	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. ) You will receive the right to reply, Mr Markovic, no matter what you throw during Mr Babic's presentation. What you don't understand, and every time I try to explain to you, Mr Babic is the head of the parliamentary group, as well as your head of the parliamentary group, as well as some of the other heads of parliament, they, in contrast, carry from the MPs political decisions and the position of their parliamentary group. We must also understand that, after the presentation of the MPs, after the presentation of the amendment's submitors, occasionally the head of the parliamentary group shall state its political position or the position of its parliamentary group on amendments, on the law. You must understand that, Mr. Markovic. As I tolerate your head of Parliament or any of the heads of Parliament, I must also be in charge of the majority. You also have to understand, because a large number of citizens voted for that majority, Mr. Markovic, and you have no patience to listen to your colleague, I cannot help you there. Here you go. You have a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45908	Why are you giving me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45909	Because Mr. Babic mentioned you by name and last name. Do you understand that now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45910	So your attempt, Mr. Becic, to insult me, all the time with that understanding, is rude. Give me time to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45911	I can't give it to you, because you don't use that time. I've given you time, and you're replicating with me. So, Mr. Markovic, you must read the Rules of Procedure and you must comply with this Rules of Procedure to behave in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. I'm just asking you to do it and nothing more. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45912	In line with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic, it took one or two sentences to say about the amendment I submitted. In the second or third sentence you said – Mr Markovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45913	Now you're gonna say again that I'm telling you something, Mr. Markovic, which you shouldn't. According to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman is obliged to warn the People's MP that he cannot address the MP directly. You can replicate to Mr. Babic, to speak to me, but you can't directly speak to Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45914	Mr. Becic, Mr. Babic said at one point -- Mr. Markovic, so he said, when you damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia, he began to talk about some figures. You've kept your mouth shut. So, you kept your mouth shut, and the man kept talking for the next five minutes in the context that I damaged the budget, and that's fine with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45915	I'll answer you in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45916	When I ask what amendment he's talking about, you're interrupting me too. The word didn't say about the amendment that says the following, where I asked to honour the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, where I asked that if citizens, businessmen, close their contracts at five years to rent some land, don't allow that only by the opinion of the building inspector, that deadline for the extension of the contract can be 25 years. So Mr. Babic talked about everything, but not about the amendment. Mr. Babic brutally insulted me and the party members. We've been hearing for three years that people from the DS are criminals, thieves, and now you're trying with this debate, which is very rude, to justify the arrest of a dozen people, and based on very superficial arguments. For three years, Mr. Babic, Serbian citizens have listened to your accusations. Hundreds of people from the DS have been arrested unjustly. Now you're trying, because of this debate in parliament, to cover up everything you're doing through this poor bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45917	Mr Markovic, the answer to the first question, when you say that Mr Babic spoke to you and said – you, Mr Markovic, must understand that you are a member of DS, a member of the DS parliamentary group and, when someone is speaking, does not refer to you personally, most often, but refers to your MP group or party. I'm sure Mr. Babic, all he said, didn't say that you did it. He was talking about this political option, about the DS, about the former government. You should understand that, Mr. Markovic. I've already given the second answer. So Mr. Babic is the head of the parliamentary group. You have to understand that. I don't want to give you the answer I just gave you again. Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr Markovic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45918	Mr. Becicu, I am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture, but according to what I heard from the representative of the Anti-Corruption Agency, they have, after the amendment, declared themselves in a very positive context. I don't think there's any need for the Anti-Corruption Agency to have its representatives here in the High House, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one needs to be called to the Anti-Corruption Agency. I don't know which, Mr. Becic, the Anti-Corruption Agency is being called on. I don't know which one. Is it to the one who initiated the proceedings against Mr. Sutanovac for the undeclared pasture in Vracar or perhaps the Anti-Corruption Agency, which the state sold for a million and 200 thousand euros, without tender, bought, too, without tender, but for four and a half million, without the building being changed by either one floor, nothing has changed, but the price has changed? Did they mean this Anti-Corruption Agency? However, whatever replica it is from the former regime MPs, whatever justification they don't know, it's some others, who, imagine they just voted to do that thing at the Anti-Corruption Agency, but also to change the City Building Land owned by the Republic of Serbia worth a billion and 540 million dinars to trade for agricultural land of the same area, did not see exactly this reciprocity as with the agency building, but it was worth 13 million and thus damaged all citizens of the Republic of Serbia by more than a billion and 485 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45919	Thank you. These 20 seconds will be taken away from the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45920	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. So the subject is the amendment and the position which remained the same in the amendment that was adopted, thus changing the basic text of the law, which concerns the submission of an appeal to the ministry and that is the provision which the Anti-Corruption Agency has objected to. Therefore, the opinion on the assessment of the risk of corruption in the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land was given to all MPs, as such is the procedure. The Anti-Corruption Agency called on the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the proposal of the MPs, to consider these recommendations in order to address the perceived shortcomings and risks of corruption and to improve the proposed legal solutions. What have they done in one good part and the proposer and the committee, however, remains to be seen as an objection by the Anti-Corruption Agency, as the appeal is made to the ministry, and to make the above-mentioned decisions, which the appeal is made, the agreement of the ministry is necessary, the Agency asks - how effective is the intended remedy? I don't think the Agency has been able to review any regulations since this appears in other laws. So now the same position of the 5th member remains, if you are dissatisfied, you will make a complaint to the ministry that you are making with the decision to appeal gives consent. That's the procedure. Can this solution be defined by a sublegal act, can it be changed now? I doubt it, except for the board's idea and what's left of us is to remain in honor of every case of appeal, regardless of the dual role of the ministry, will be carefully considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45921	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45922	When it comes to your interpretation of this amendment, I would like to say that on Saturday, the Committee was attended by representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We greatly respect the work of independent state authorities and were glad to have followed our activities in preparing this law. So, all that they put out as suggestions and as their doubts about whether the law would be transparent enough, we were on the board and presented publicly. We have accepted amendments where there could have been some kind of abuse, and when it comes to the time limit for filing complaints, we have also indicated that these have been amended and complemented by the applicable law, and that the current law, Article 64, paragraph 3, already provides for two-stage application, which they have been satisfied with our reasoning and in general with our approach, when it comes to the desire to pass as much better law as possible, a law that will be transparent, a law that will leave a minimum chance of corruption, for speculative actions. That's why we were ready to listen to everyone's opinions, especially theirs. Once again, to underline that they left this session satisfied, because they received answers to everything that was not clear enough for them at the first moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45923	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 5 of the amendment, which is also a collection of ideas that we have received, I have submitted an amendment that strengthens the issues of abuses that are obviously happening, because of the 830,000 hectares of land, 248,000 are the subject of leases, and 581 thousand and some hectares are subject to usurpation and non-treatment. Irregularities are numerous and Article 5 has been well removed from these regulations. So in future those who break these rules, and under Article 5, they will no longer have the right to rent agricultural land. It is mainly criminal provisions, but we have added that legal persons who exercise the right to lease on any basis, legal persons who exercise the right to rent agricultural land on state property, will ensure the employment of unemployed persons. The Minister responsible for work in agreement with the Minister responsible for Agriculture Affairs prescribes closer conditions for security, employment of unemployed persons under Article 9. If, after the leased land, the owner of the property rights on agricultural land is changed, the new owner enters the place of the tenant, and the lease rights and obligations arise between him and the secure tenant. We added this just in case if there is a match and a restitution case, a plot is accidentally issued, the owner of that plot becomes the one whose restitution has achieved it. So, a legal follower of a former owner whose land was taken from 1945 to 1953 in various ways. In such situations, one to whom the right is granted under the restitution shall not be damaged and these amendments shall therefore be made in Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45925	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45926	In Article 5, I will read the form we have proposed – the right of hire does not have persons with a maturity, not those with obligations for PIO and other taxes relating to agriculture. We simply consider this amendment to protect all those who are diligently fulfilling their duties towards the state and fulfilling all the obligations and obligations of financial character, while on the other hand we do not think that others should be put into the same race, because I fear that those who have the opportunity to meet all obligations to lose that race with others who fulfil it and leave financial resources for other things. I think it's very logical for this amendment to be adopted, because that's where we're going to protect those farmers who respect the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45927	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45928	Thank you. I suggested that paragraphs 1 and 2 be deleted in Article 6 of the Law, which the agricultural land is leased by public competition in two circles. We believe that in this way it will primarily be in a subordinate position for those who have so far had the right to use this land, and the land of the first, second and third categories as the best in Serbia, it is only of the great assets that Serbia still has, since there is no oil, there is no gas, we believe that we are the most valuable resource of the Buddha why we give to those who are financially advantageous of the citizens who live out of this. We will take away Serbia's most fertile country from Serbian peasants, take away agricultural land and assign the most fertile and best country to those to whom the Commission of the Republic, or the Ministry of Agriculture, determines who the conditions are, on the basis of which projects and on which potential financial resources are invested. Citizens here are in a certain position, 70,000 families of this life, 70,000 families won't be able to laugh, Madam Minister, because bread crusts are earned right on that ground. Who knows how many people depend on these and these kinds of murky jobs that the Anti-Corruption Agency has declared very corrupt with a high risk of corruption. We believe this is a criminal and robbery law and the DS will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45929	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45930	As long as these laws are given these epithets, I will ask those who invent such epithets, which laws, and may not have these laws been looting and corrupt on the basis of which the city-building land in Novi Sad is owned by the Republic of Serbia, owned by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and worth a billion and 540 million dinars, were traded for agricultural land and the same area only far less valuable and worth 13 million and 612 thousand dinars? What corrupt and criminal law has allowed all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be damaged by more than a billion and 400 million dinars, one pen move, and therefore our citizens make it clear? That's why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina are still talking today about how they robbed us and how they robbed us -- we're well-lived and well survived. Now these are the hands full of work, not only for the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is also the same building, the same area, first sold for a million and 200,000 euros, and then bought it for 4.5m euros, and further damaged all citizens of the Republic of Serbia for more than threem euros. We have survived well and well-preserved citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina with the authority of DS Bojan Pajtic and his Camaril.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45931	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45932	Thank you. Dear People's MP, I laughed, but not because of your story, but because of the fact that we all really expect that when we talk about serious things, we get ready. You mentioned 70,000 agricultural landowners who would be threatened by this law, the family, this number I don't know how you are and how you came to it, even if none of the existing tenants used the possibility of renting land that is 4,400 landowners in Vojvodina, 770 landowners in Serbia, which is simply impossible and which is not going to happen, because our goal is not to rent only about 5,000 land plots of state land but to use it much, much more land. Our goal is to pass laws that won't be corrupt. The government and the ministry are fighting corruption, and we will certainly win that battle. How much we want to help agriculture speaks enough of this information that we are really through concrete actions, through concrete measures helping farmers. For these very reasons, we were able to get consent from the government to take part in the state's resources to agriculture. Do you know what it means to a Serbian farmer, the average small, medium-sized farmer, and you're now saying it's a corrupt law. Please, I really expect of you as well as of the other MPs, as we prepare ourselves seriously, that you too should prepare seriously, not for us, but for these farmers who listen and who follow what we say and what we do and who do not deserve to be misinformed and confused and be carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45933	Time. Thank you. On Article 6 of the amendment, the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted. Thank you. The 6th Amendment with amendments to the same text was submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic, Milan Novakovic and together by Djordje Milicevic, Marjana Maras and Dr Milan Latkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45934	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with Associates, Honorable Guests, People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, in this amendment, Article 6 is amended and it is said that the initial price of the lease of land under Article 1 of this Article in the first round cannot be lower than the 80th average price of the lease per hectare, i.e. in the second round cannot be lower than 60% of the average price of the lease per hectare. Also, Article 6 adds a new position 7 which reads – if agricultural land is not leased after the procedure laid down in Article 2 has been implemented, the ministry may carry out a public competition procedure. Item six is deleted. In any case, I would like to thank you for accepting this amendment, and this amendment has avoided the possibility of us coming into a trap, as is the case under the applicable law, whether agricultural land should not be leased. Thank you for accepting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45935	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45936	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Kolega Novakovic said what was the objective of the proposed amendment, and we think it is very important and important that the ministry has rightly seen and accepted the proposed amendment. The goal is to betray the country, to make revenues from issuing the country, because unless it is betrayed, there is no income. On the other hand, this proposed amendment makes it impossible and reduces the space for corruption and abuse. What I also want to say is that I fully agree with the Minister of Agriculture and we talked about it during the debate in the principle that the situation in agriculture is so that it requires urgent and rapid solutions and that this law encourages and attracts investments in agricultural production and what we expect from investments is on the one hand faster and better development, and on the other hand, investments themselves provide one guarantee and security for the placement of agricultural products when we talk about small agricultural producers. Of course, absolutely no one has any intention in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give anything to anyone, or to give something that is a state resource, or absolutely anyone who intends to favor anyone when we talk about renting agricultural land. All details, all important issues will be later arranged and done in the RS government regulations. As for the specific issue of agricultural land in lease, we said in principle during the debate, and I will repeat it today, for us it is a very important and clear investment plan, for us a very clear business plan that must be in line with the needs of local self-government. It is very important for us that there is a clear cooperation plan with small agricultural producers from local backgrounds. It is very important for us to look at the number of new jobs that are being opened. It is very important for us to finally see how it contributes to increasing and improving agricultural production in Serbia. When we talk about renting and talking about small farmers, you know how, nobody absolutely allows small farmers to participate in the competition themselves. Small farmers can participate through associations, join and participate and be potential tenants of a particular agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45937	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45938	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to thank you for your correct conduct, given the situation that has been in place for the last month in public. I think now our viewers can see that this is not about any secret plot against farmers in the Republic of Serbia or other levels of government. This amendment is proof of that. So he respected the intensity shown by the province. Because of the overly expensive lease in previous periods, we did not start with 100% starting price, which was demand and province, but in the first round it was 80%, and in the second 60% of the average price on the territory of local self-government in the previous bidding. In this way, we wanted to respect the AP Vojvodina, and therefore farmers can go on leases at a lower price, because it can happen, let's say, that interest is a little bit weaker and we want them to rent that agricultural land as soon as possible in the first round, or in the second round. But we added another position, which is that if it doesn't work out, then the Ministry can re-implement the public competition procedure if there's time. We also have what is around renewable energy, I think that Mrs. Tomic will say it a little bit more, and the goal is that as much land as possible is processed, that if it is not qualified, three years goes by and the Ministry fails to rent it, that we can then issue that abandoned land with a starting price of 0 dinars and that in such situations, biomass producers for renewable energy have the advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45939	Thank you. On the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and together by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word has a representative of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, Branislav Bogorovski. Here you go, Mr. Bogorski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45940	Thank you. Therefore, it is already said that the initiative of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is to define in a different way the initial price of bid. In fact, it has been observed in practice so far that after poor agri-economic years, about a dozen percent fall interest in renting state agricultural land. In this way, by establishing the initial bid price of 80% of last year's price, we are practically giving room to our farmers so that they can take a step back when bidding. Because every year it's not as good, and the current solutions buy prices from year to year from year. So she gets bigger and bigger every year. I am sorry that no other part of our amendment has been accepted, as regards deadlines in which a decision on the lease of land can be declared. In fact, through the practice of the regional secretariat in these nearly 10 years, as far as the law applies, we have noticed that farmers simply in a large number of cases are not informed in time when a decision on their right is made. In fact, there are 30% of cases where they do not receive timely information when a decision is made, and deadlines run from the day of the decision. As a result, we have proposed that deadlines continue from the day of publication of the decision on the first-degree advertising board, because in this way we allow all interested people to become aware of the decision-making and that they can exercise their right to appeal. So, if the solution remains so far, we will still have a situation where 30% of those interested, who feel that their rights are in some way compromised, will not be able to respond in time and benefit from the protection of their rights by means of a legal remedy. I do not agree with the government's argument that, in any way, the Ministry has been excluded from the process of leased agricultural land, or that two rounds of bid have been compromised. I don't know why it's listed in the explanation, because I don't think it's even about the subject. Someone wasn't focused when he was considering our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45941	I would like to thank the circuit secretary, Mr. Bogkoski. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this amendment, although it does not come from representatives of the ruling majority, could have been accepted precisely for the reason I cited Mr. Bognoski, which is that a good part of the land remains out of use solely for the reason that the initial price of the issue is formed. The other problem is that complaints made by those participating in these bids are rejected solely for the reasons why the deadlines for appeal have expired. In this direction was the amendment, that deadlines should be calculated from the day of publication on the notice board. I think it's a technical correction that would contribute greatly to allowing people equal treatment, and to those who bid and to those who later complain about the process. Forming the starting price in the second round. I don't see why the government, or why you haven't adopted this amendment, because 80%, or 50% of the average price achieved, is quite a reasonable amount if it goes into the second round. Especially in the sense that when given under the law of cross-referencing, the second archeologists apply, or the price at that time cannot be higher than the average price reached in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is significantly lower than what farmers bid on auctions organised by local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45943	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45944	Thank you. Dear Representative of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and the honourable MPs who have intervened on the bill to this member, I would like to state that we have partly accepted the amendment of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, your amendment, that is, to the price of the lease in the first, or second round of public competition. However, what has not been accepted in general in the amendments concerns the part concerning advertising after the public competition has been carried out. Your suggestion is that advertising be on the advertising board. We didn't accept that. We believe that one better, safer and more precise way is when every participant in the auction gets a decision through the official mail, with a returnee who guarantees us that he has received the decision himself. If we were to accept the very proposal to run a deadline from the moment of advertising on the advertising board, the question is how many of our farmers would know when the result would be published on the advertising board, how many would be able to come, how many would be able to see it. Simply, there is another open possibility for major abuses in that case. That is why we have proposed and we believe that this is one more correct procedure, a more correct way, and advertising on the advertising board is not ruled out as a possibility, but it is another additional option. In any case, the official memo, which was officially sent, officially served to anyone involved in a public competition, is the first and mandatory option, and the second option can also be the advertising board.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45945	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45946	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, Minister, when I wrote this article, I did not have in mind at that time these arguments that you later accepted when adopting this amendment. In principle, the intention was similar to that of the other amendments, because it was illogical for me to reduce one price that failed at the bidding by 100% and to create a great opportunity for corruption again. We have repeatedly in the principle debate and today we have shown that this whole law is subject to corruption and that you have opened the space to introduce corruption to a small or large door in the application of this law. So my proposal was to cut the starting price to 50% in the first round, and in the second round to be 30%. Given that this member, as well as the whole law, is very imprecise and that the procedure for the application of this law is not in line, we felt that, through this opening of the possibilities for a reduction of 100%, you are really creating a problem in application. What was even more logical to me was that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am referring in particular to Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia respects the applicable regulations and laws and that, in accordance with those procedures that exist in the Property Directorate that are previously provided for the availability of state resources, state property, sale of state property, etc., it also acts in this article. In that case, you would have to make your presidents of municipalities, various commissions, mayors and others who deal with this issue and who are building a programme far more engaged and that they make little effort to make these programmes that are being explored better and better, and not that precisely because of their unhappiness comes into the situation that the programmes are not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45947	Thank you. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45948	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representative of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, so what we've been saying is the right to a lease and the right to a more frequent lease, which is one of the most promising members in this bill. That's why we suggested erasing him. We have suggested erasing because it is not in line with the interests of the people who in the area of the AP Vojvodina are processing this land. And you're constantly trying to spin with this law being in the interest of some peasants, just not telling us which. That is why we have criticised your way of leading agricultural policy, because you cannot apply the same to Vojvodina and to the narrow part of Serbia. To return to the subject, that this member is not in line with those agricultural producers who came before the Assembly a few days ago, visibly dissatisfied, with a letter sent to all the parliamentary groups in this house saying that in the most brutal way their interests were neglected and that you and your commission are giving the right, to this member of the law, and you are giving the possibility to assign to a foreigner the land most fertile in the Republic of Serbia, in which someone has so far been able to earn their bread crust. And you, in the most brutal way possible, as they say, exclude them from agricultural production in 30 years, Madam Minister. What happens in 2045? Who among us will be able to answer these questions to them and their children? Now, that's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45949	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, I didn't interrupt you, even though you weren't talking about the subject. I expected Mr. Markovic to do it. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Me? ) Well, since you just reacted to some of the other colleagues you think you didn't talk about, and now you don't do the same when it comes to your fellow MPs. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45950	I thank you, Chairman. Article 106 has been injured. You, truth be told, have reacted because of the violation of this article, bearing in mind that the agenda we are discussing has been discussed in the first place and that the topic has been completely out of the box, especially the legal framework, which is the topic of today's discussion. At the same time, at the same time, Article 107, honourable fellow MPs, because there is a very clear tendency here, a tendency to intimidate citizens and agricultural producers in Vojvodina, intimidation in one way that is inadmissible. Our citizens did not choose to use such means, to defuse the value systems, to make fun of the systems, to serve the truths to spread panic. Every MP is obliged to give facts for his reasons. We haven't heard a single fact here, no single argument based on which any of the agricultural producers, not only in Vojvodina but throughout Serbia, should be concerned about the application of this law. We haven't heard one single fact about the alleged social disaster, as many as 70,000 agricultural producers. All this is destroying Parliament's reputation. We're not here to tell citizens what's causing them to fear. We're not here to spread panic. We're not here to undermine value systems. We're here to fight for quality laws, facts and to believe that what we're saying is true. This isn't about persuasion, this is about a thought-out and tending initiative to destabilise a system, or to scare the citizens of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45951	Time. I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) ) Before I tell you that I apologize for not interrupting Mr Bozovic, but as I said before, I expected that some MPs who are always responding would react, and I take two minutes away from you, because you have misused the application of the Rules of Procedure and have not spoken of... Mr. Jovanovic, don't be convinced now that you are now in your explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the scene: I absolutely believe I was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. ) Now, I, as chairman, believe that you are not and I am taking two minutes from your parliamentary group. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45952	I use two plus five minutes per amendment. The amendment asks that point 64a, the essence of the problem of this law, be deleted because some new categories are being introduced that are completely unnecessary, and some of the old ones are also out of time and space. What's the new category? The new category is the right championship. We had the right to double the lease, which could have some justification primarily for legal certainty and for market security, but this right across the championship where investors appear, imagine, in the lease of agricultural land, investors appear. What does that have to do with renting agricultural land? These are determined by them writing an investment programme, so the investment programme is approved by some commission formed by the minister, by the criteria God preserves me or we will see or be valid, and then the final decision on it is made by local self-government. It's called, how can I tell you, the perfect place for corruption. Maybe you didn't mean to. You may have come up with such a proposal, but it's a disaster. It has nothing to do with agricultural land, nor with the protection of the state's interest, nor with social policy, nor with preventing foreigners from buying our country, nor with the fight against the tycoon. It's one galaxy of everything and everything that has a lot more to do with self-management or some systems of the agreed economy, and nothing to do with the 21st century. What's going on? This is what we need to understand that agricultural land is one of the most important resources of the state, each and every one of them. If you could just ask, the chairman, colleagues, to speak with you. That resource is not a topic for...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45953	Mr. Zivkovic, I'll calm down my colleagues, but I suppose they resent because you're not talking about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45954	No, I'm just saying, just that you were listening, since you were on the phone, but it doesn't matter. You'll hear it later. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45955	Mr. Zivkovic, don't, please. I'll also interrupt you every time and tell you to talk to your colleague. Don't make up that I made up the phone. I listened carefully to what you were saying and don't talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45956	Mr. Becic, this is the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45957	Don't take your manners, Mr. Zivkovic, to reintroduce the Great Hall of the National Assembly. I ask you to return to the subject and speak and take your time until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45958	You were in the shot when you made the phone call, that's what everyone who was watching saw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45959	I was half an hour ago, Mr. Zivkovic, and now while I'm...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45960	I'm asking you to give me back the minute you spent on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45961	I won't give you a minute back. I don't want to give you back your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45962	You don't want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45963	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45964	Of course, then we'll talk about how we're going to move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45965	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45966	Therefore, Article 64 has nothing to do with the idea of better issuing agricultural land. Like I said, agricultural land is a resource. It must be used in an efficient way. It must be leased at the best prices, what an investment programme, what a commission, what a miracle, is that an adequate starting price and then starts with a public auction. It can be attended by qualified bidders. It's winning who gets the highest price. Social policy is being run elsewhere, protecting the domestic market, if it has to be run, is being run elsewhere, not through this law. What is the essence of this bill? The bottom line is that through this process of investing in the lease of agricultural land, the impossible construction is impossible. This land gives tycoons who are at the best of the current government, that they take it for 30 years and that in five, six, seven years when the state will start selling this land to foreigners, they will sell it to foreigners, not the state. It's an inadmissible thing. That's why I'm asking you to understand that aspect of this story. You may not have that intention, you may have come from the best intentions, but with this kind of solution, you're going to make room for some future government or this same government in the future to abuse it in the worst possible way. Therefore, it says 200,000 hectares are out of lease, it is a country that is not being processed. Why? The state must process the country, if not in the lease of states, should process it or local self-government. How? By having one man in the municipality who will organize production on that land that is not leased. So, he can buy seeds, he can rent machinery or a company that's gonna do it, he can find a shopping house that sells products. You're boasting that 200,000 acres or you're complaining, so the thing doesn't work out, let's make a state agency that's going to deal with a state-owned land that's not being leased, or let's do it by municipalities, and then solve everything, let's produce from what the state does, let's make it products that go into state reserves, stock reserves. These are ways to solve this question that we're talking about now, not to create one galathium of everything and everything, and it's being solved and the sociale, where it's being solved and leased and by foreigners and domestic and tycoons, it's chaos, it's the 21st century. What it says in this law that you inherited, the law should change completely. The state must say - state land is issued under these and these conditions, without commissions, without sublegal acts, to know how. If you need to protect domestic small farmers, put it in the law, say, they can get 15% or 10% lower price, at less than the bid. It's a way to hire all that land, not to catch on to people being honest and there won't be any abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45967	Thank you. You didn't talk about the amendment until the end, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45968	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45969	As I understand it, I'll give you back the time of your return to the vineyard subsidies. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45970	Thank you. Your Honor, you've made more interesting ideas, I don't know why you didn't bring them up before, why you didn't find them before to apply them to practice. When it comes to this law, we have seriously approached responsible and difficult jobs, and the fact that we have indeed consulted with EU countries, the countries of the environment, the region and asked for support and solutions for some of the issues that have been open and controversial to us. Of course, there were some things we could have taken over, but we had to adapt a good part of it to Serbia's agriculture, and our agriculture is what it is. Small and medium-sized land mainly and a large part of the unprocessed country, both in state and private ownership and a dozen problems inherited. You're asking the question, what is the right of the championship, or what we need the right of the championship. We are introducing this provision because we have little investment in agriculture, because we have destroyed agricultural goods, because we have destroyed agricultural combinations. We want what is available to us to put into office, to offer for investment. In doing so, it's not about any of my friends or anyone else's, it's about legal faces. We expect that through this favourable investment environment we will motivate companies to invest, to raise processing capacity, to connect our domestic small farmers. They drew it up as their wish, as their view of the possibility of solving their current problems. So we won't reduce the available area to a domestic farmer we just want to help him and base Serbia's agriculture over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45971	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, you are not mentioned to Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who Zoran Zivkovic was talking about in agriculture. Dobrivoje Sudjum, then assistant minister of agriculture who claims to have misused his official position from 7 August 2007 to 8 February 2008. Among other things, the winery "Zivkovic" enabled illegal acquisition...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45973	Mr. Markovicu, just as Mr. Bozovic respected Mr. Zivkovic, when you mention them, you can also free Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45974	So he made it possible for Vinarija "Zivkovic" to illegally receive 41 million dinars and for the winery of a certain Mr. Djordjevic to be more than 77 million dinars. All that my esteemed colleague Marijan Risticevic said about the crime directed by Zoran Zivkovic turned out to be true. On the basis of the provisions of the Regulation on common criteria for organisation and standards and methodological guidance for the conduct of internal audit in the public sector and the annual work plan of the Internal Audit Group since 9 February 2015, an audit was carried out at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. The internal audit was the process of issuing Decision No 320-05-4572/2007-06 of 15 November 2007 on the allocation of incentive funds under the Regulation on the use of incentive funds to raise multi-annual production plantations with the back of vines and hops for 2007, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", Nos. 64/2007 and 97/2007 in the text of the Regulations. Now not to ask everything, since there are many, among other things it is said, - based on an insight into the Register of Agricultural Lands, it has been found that the registration of agricultural land is number 801747002642, the winery "Zivković" d.o.o. Not until July 2007. According to the above, this ownership had no basis for obtaining the right to incentive funds in 2007, i.e. that it has not complied with the basic conditions for the submission of applications. Given that the application refers to the area of the country which at the time of application is not owned by this legal person, and the entry of this land into the Register of Agricultural Lands had to be made in the period from January to March of the current year, or in 2007. In accordance with the above mentioned Article 13(1) of the Regulation on the Register of Agricultural Lands, as set out in that request, it had to be rejected as unfounded. So, Mr. Zivkovic illegally took over 41 million dinars and is now giving us lessons on how agricultural production should be arranged in the Republic of Serbia. The minister asked him why he didn't change the Agricultural Land Act. Well, because he was not concerned with law enforcement and law enforcement, but with breaking the law and obtaining illegal property benefit in a way contrary to all applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia. What Mr. Zivkovic doesn't understand or doesn't understand is that this law is trying to raise the level of agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia in a way that we stop being exporters of raw materials. So, let's stop being exporters of wheat and corn to Slovenia, and then we import from them the products packaged for sale in our shops, our supermarkets, our shops. That's why the law mentions investments, business plans. That's why there's a commission forming. I understand the representatives of the former regime. They're afraid of all these procedures where something decides by some procedure where some business plans are submitted where someone's looking at your papers, etc. It's best under the grain. The best secret is that no one knows, you deal there with some assistant minister, you're supposed to register by March 2007, you register in November, it doesn't matter, you don't get paid an incentive fund of 41 million dinars, and then we wonder why the situation in agriculture is the way it is, and because our agriculture has been systematically robbed. Because she was robbed by people from the former regime, because she was first robbed by DS. That's what I was talking about in principle. The people of the DS in all their aggregate states of the current Democrats, former Democrats, the New Party, the Social Democratic Party, ask God what they're called. So, since 2002-2008 the government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45975	Mr. Martinovic, you must bring an end to the debate or return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45976	I bring in, I bring in the end. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and Mr. Zivkovic was, unfortunately, the president of the country. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia has paid nearly four billion dinars to the consulting houses for the services of privatisation advisers through the privatisation agency since 2002-2008. And then they had, like, exclusive privatisation consultants, they were four firms. First, “Sitadel Finlsel Edvizeri”; the tobacco industry “Nish”, the tobacco industry “Vranje”, JAT erviz, were their customers. The company "Zravlje", "Palet", "Cementara" and "Jelen d.o.o.", "Mobi 063", "Mobi 063", "Belgrade", Vojvodjanska banka, Niška banka, Pannonian banka, Elektroprivreda Serbia and the famous "CesMekon", Mirko Cvetkovic, "Telecom Serbia", "Knjaz Milos", "Frikom", "Smaj", "Somboled", Pira "Pelarevo", "Sabac" bought what was called, Mr. Bečiću, Miroslav Bogicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45977	Please, Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45978	... "Serbian", "Traal", PI Pancevo, "Danubius", and then DDO "BC Excel", RTB BOR, "Geneks", "Robbic Houses Belgrade", Serbian Glass Factory "Paracin", BIP, "Hisar" Prokuplje, "Beopetrol", JU banka.d... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45979	Mr. Martinovic, you don't have enough time to read all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45980	Here I finish, DDOR Novi Sad, three cements "Kosjeric", "Novi Popovac", "Beocin", Institute for the Construction of Belgrade. Be careful and they wanted to privatize it. Radiator Zrenjanin, and then Raiffeisen Investment, NIS, BPI, Frikom, Pollet, Jelen Dol, Kolubara, Gas concrete, Veterinary Institute, Vršački Vineyards, Mitros Srem, Litas, and as all these privatisations were completed by 2008, Serbia's citizens know best, and in the pockets of people who were close to the then-run Serbian governments, all led by the DS, more than 4 billion dinars of Serbian citizens ended. When underlining the line, who is responsible, the same ones who are criticising the Agricultural Land Act today, who are giving us the sense of how they know everything, in their time alone, have failed to apply any of their brains, to make it better for the citizens of Serbia, but have put everything in their pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45981	The word has a National MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica, at the presentation of Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45982	Yeah, I heard that my name and name were mentioned, a sequel to this salad of words, inactions, falseness, I couldn't quite grasp, completely, but of course none of it was true. The last time for subsidies, for this winery, everything is regulated by law and the gentleman is in custody, just because someone heals his complexes or some treats his complexes, if I am not mistaken, the predecessor said, some agricultural land registration only in July, 2007, and that is not true, because it was done in 2006, but that is true, the application was filed at the 8th month, which means August of the month. It's a hundred times a question, and this harangus is one of the many that have passed, and I have nothing to be afraid of. It's all by law and it's all about morals and respect, all human and legal norms. I have nothing to be afraid of. But the question is, why didn't I suggest earlier what the minister said as interesting ideas to solve problems in this area, so that's because there wasn't such an inspirational agriculture minister, who I was convinced she could understand these ideas of mine, and that with her team, she was going over the bill, which would be an adequate replacement for this bad law. That invitation to what I was doing in 2003. In the years when I was able to suggest something, it was a question for everyone here, for all those present -- and what you were doing in 1992,1993, 1996, 1997,1999, when you were getting apartments before the bombing, when you took what you took, those questions could be asked by anyone. What were you doing without a diploma?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45983	Time. On what basis, Mr. Pavicevic? Your five minutes? You have to wait for order. Mr. Martinovic, you? You have no right. He didn't mention you. Minister, so you'll have the amendment. [[Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Short replica, said – previous speaker.]] Here you go, Mrs. Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45984	Just a quick question, what's with all the cynicism? I tried to answer the question correctly, what do we need the law championship right to do, and I said that we have to rebuild the agricultural combinations, return the agricultural goods, that we have to have processing capacities, that we have to have a column of agricultural production, primary agricultural production, we return. You mention it in the '90s, and we all know what was in the '90s, but please, no agricultural combinations were destroyed, then no agricultural goods were destroyed, the sunbeam of agriculture began, it was true that it was difficult in the 1990s, but the drastic sunbeam had begun since 2000. And when it comes to primary production that has lost support and support, and when it comes to processing capacity, and we are now in a position to work, to have some results, we are not satisfied with them, they are better than they were in previous years, and we want them to be even better and even bigger, and we want what the state has, to put into the function of agriculture. So, from there, our proposal for the championship, the right of the championship, and in no way do we want to endanger, small and medium-sized farmers, they remain at the focus of our agrarian policy, it's also adopted by the strategy of the agricultural policy over the next ten years. It respects the government, the concrete measures that I believe I will have time to talk about today and to mention them again and remind you and our farmers of them. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45985	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. You're not in the show, ma'am. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Asked a question. ) There is no right for Mrs. Minister to ask the question at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45986	I thank Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I reiterate that this amendment should not be accepted. He absolutely doesn't make any sense. What the bill says is good, because Serbian agriculture should be improved, transparent procedures should be introduced and competition should be introduced into Serbian agriculture. That's why concepts like investment, business plan and how they make sense. This was about what who did it in 1992, 1993, 1997. In 1992 and 1993, I was a high school student. In 1997, I was in the third year of law school. In 1992, Mr. Zivkovic, if I am not mistaken, became a member of the DS, in 1997 he was mayor of Nis and burned electricity bills in a barrel and thus showed how he behaves according to European standards. In 2000, he hugged and kissed the Legion, Milet Lukovic, the Mutative Djur, as they were already called, so that in 2003, after the murder of Zoran Djindjic, he would become a great opponent of the said gentlemen. Before that, he took pictures with them in Kula, sang and danced at the Red Beretka concert at the headquarters of the Special Operations Unit. So, who's been where and who's been doing what he's done in the 1990s and 20s, I think it's better not to mention Zoran Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45987	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Do you want a word per article 7? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45989	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, already everyone here knows that we MPs of the New Party have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and that amendment is not one of those four accepted amendments. I am sorry that this amendment has not been adopted because this amendment was necessary, as Article 7 amending Article 64 of the existing law defines the character of this bill, i.e. this legislative project. I really listened with terrible attention to the debate and in principle to the amendments now. I noticed that Mrs Bogosavljević Boskovic, therefore you, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, primarily return to one argument here during the debate, which is an argument concerning the intention. You say - our intention is good, we want something good. I then understand it this way – so you as a key argument for content and this article 7 which changes Article 64, you justify the principle of ethics of intent. I'm thinking like this now. Let's say that we agree on that, let's say that I understand and accept that your intention is the best possible and in that place, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, we, through our amendment to Article 7, introduce a new argument and a new principle. You have introduced the principle of ethics of intent, and we are introducing a new principle. It's the principle of ethics of responsibility. This principle as a key issue contains the following question – and what will be the consequences of this article's proposal? Let's say we accept that your intention is best, I'm consensual, you also think that, and I'm going forward, so I wonder, and what will be the consequences of what is, say, a good intention, when we want to interpret the contents of this article of the law? Dear Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, I think, I have consulted a little, and I have spoken to people who are interested in this topic, I think the consequences will be next, and to say the harmful. One consequence of being -- more favourable conditions for corruption, I will now show in what way. The second consequence, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, will be favouring not market solutions. Be careful, when these two consequences, if we really accept that this is so, therefore, more favourable conditions for corruption and favouring non-market solutions, when we collect these two consequences, if we read carefully the contents of this article of the bill, then as a MP here and the citizens of our Republic, I can conclude that the direction of the Government is not reformal, because it would be reformable if we were to put content in the members of the law of a legislative project that would create more favourable conditions for anti-corruption orientation or if the content were market-oriented. Here Article 7, I find these two consequences – more favourable conditions for corruption and favouring non-market solutions. Here's an example, a commission educated by a minister or minister giving consent to an investment plan by a legal person that has the right to a lease. Well, what is this, distinguished gentlemen, rather than naked arbitration? The naked arbitration necessarily creates more favourable conditions for corruption. The naked arbitration distances from market solutions. We now want to formally focus on some market solutions. I think, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that we MPs of the New Party have won, and I think very well deserved, the status of objective interpreters of the bill, or legislative projects. I want to remind you here that the last time you visited our National Assembly to defend the bill on strong alcoholic beverages, we very precisely said that it was a good bill, we submitted amendments. Some amendments have been accepted and we have decided to send a message that such a legislative project should be voted on. I believe that this status, which we have earned here by acting in the National Assembly, should serve you today as an additional species, let me say, notice, that we may once again imagine this solution that stands in Article 7, since Article 7 is obviously the most problematic member in terms of a large number of interested actors for the content of this bill, respected gentlemen and respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45990	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45991	Thank you. Dear People's MP, I would like to say that it is absolutely not true that this member is creating a basis for illegal or corrupt actions, as you say, for the simple reason why this member implies and the exercise of the right of the championship and the exercise of the right to cross. The article clearly defines the conditions, ways and procedures to achieve, let's start with the right of the championship. So it's absolutely not true that this right will be obtained by non-transparent procedures. If I'm sure that's how it is, here, I'll illustrate it. So, to exercise the right of the championship, the starting point is the annual programme. The annual program is made by local self-government. It is tasked to include in the annual programme all state land located on the territory of its cadastrian municipality. The local self-government then separates from the available land up to 30% that will be offered for the right of the championship. It is already transparent because the document is being published in the local self-government, but in the means of public information. Thereafter, part of the land that can be acquired by tenants under the right to cross. These are the tenants who have built irrigation channels, some agricultural facilities, which have several years of orchards, vineyards that are related, etc. So this part that applies to the right of the championship is given as a possibility. If interested investors report, that part will also be realised. In case we don't have interested investors, or their programmes and plans don't match our idea, or the Commission's idea of assessing the investment plan, assessing new jobs and investment heights, that part goes to the part that's intended for public competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45992	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45993	I'll move on, since it's a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45994	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45995	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I'm using the time of the authorized representative of the parliamentary group. This is really a member who caused the most controversy. I'm sorry my colleagues weren't able to hear the farmers who were at our door on Friday, and they just said that. Indeed, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, there are municipalities in Vojvodina that are surrounded by state agricultural land. These people in these municipalities, when you give someone 30 years' rent of state agricultural land, they have nothing to hope for. One of the people who spoke there said that their children would grow up with the fact that they would become farmers on agricultural land held by your business partners, which you gave based on some meeting at the Ministry and based on your assessment that their investment plan was good. It's simply an injustice that affects them and hurts them and that's what it's all about. It doesn't bother anyone to invest in the country, etc. It bothers them that only legal persons, based solely on the business plan, are given 30% of the land in one municipality based solely on your estimate for 30 years, which is the age of farmers. First, why does it have to be just a legal person, why can't it be someone who wants to do it? If it's a guarantee, I guess someone can guarantee their property. I, as a farmer, want to invest, think I have a good investment plan, which is why I couldn't guarantee my assets for my investment? What is this way of even bringing legal and physical persons into an unequal position? Which is why the right is guaranteed only by legal persons. We believe that this member of this law, not only is the basis for corruption, because indeed your Ministry and some of your commissions are giving absolute arbitraryness to whom they will assign the country, and then to local self-governments for 30 days to decide to rent tens of thousands of hectares, which local self-governments can't work in 30 days, but also because you intend to have a state-owned property and to have it in the possession of state property governed by some kind of sublegal act, not by law. Why is there no law under what conditions will these people be leased? Why doesn't the law say who's going to be the commission? On what criteria will they decide? How will prices be determined at which these people will receive? Which is why, ultimately, if you care so much about farmers, you don't offer first to farmers, and then the country that stays, you say it's a great country, the one that's going to stay after the restitution, after the lease, so let's offer those business partners the country that stays, not the farmers that you're offering the country that stays?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45996	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45997	Thank you. It's not nice to disavow things and preach to someone that has some ultimate intentions and that they have business partners there. That's one. Two, why can't physical faces? Physical persons have been able to be investors so far, but we, I am in the opening statement, in 109 municipalities of Serbia, we have no investment, so that no farmer, nor agricultural land, can achieve the right thing. As far as this piece relating to the right of the championship provided for by this law is concerned, it is not true that it is not transparent. Everything will be transparent and this law simply determines the conditions, ways and procedures. The law says the government will specify in detail those conditions provided for in the law. I'll read some of these terms and ways. Therefore, the right of the championship can be exercised by a legal person entered in the register of agricultural holdings in the active status provided by the investment plan. The investment plan is agreed by the committee. The Commission is educated by the Ministry of Agriculture. Representatives of the government, the economy, finance and agriculture ministry, representatives of local self-government in whose territory investment, representatives of scientific and professional institutions will be realised. The composition of the commission will be published in the Official Messenger, which officially voted with the composition, mandate and competence of the commission. So one of the conditions is that up to 30% of the available agricultural land can be issued, and the decision is made by the local self-government unit. The same person cannot exercise the right of the championship, the right to cross, etc., etc. These are all terms and conditions prescribed by law. The regulation will only elaborate on all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45998	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u45999	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article has been governed by the right to a cross-referencing lease that our cattlemen now have under more favourable conditions. Our goal is to make as much revenue per unit of the surface as possible. Instead of wartime 1200 to 1500 euros, which is legitimate, which is what the colleague advocated, we want through livestock industry to make 2,500 to 3,000 euros per unit of surface. The land is not the property of those who cultivate it. State agricultural land is the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all those who watch this transmission and all who do not watch this transmission. We who process it are subject to the requirement of citizens to make as much income per unit of surface, where the owners are all citizens, and not us who process it, they require us to make as much income as possible per unit of surface and to deal with processing on the way. With this we have the right to the lease and the right to a shorter lease. Right across the lease are cattlemen, fruit farmers, vegetables, greenhouses, plastics, etc. The right of the championship is just an upgrade. On the one hand, the upgrade, and on the other hand, the disarmament of agricultural land for 30 years. Now I'm gonna say why it's an upgrade. If as cattlemen, we make 2,500 to 3,000 euros per hectare, because we have a cow, a cow has a calf, we have a calf, we drown a bull, we have 3,000 euros a year, which means double income. Since meat, milk and eggs, fruits and vegetables have to be processed, the least we can do is six thousand euros. The difference between six thousand and 1,200 or 1,500 euros is 4,500 euros. These are taxes, contributions, salaries to employees, etc. That money comes to pensioners, to the public sector. That money affects the increase in wages and pensions from real sources. So, that production is going to be the engine that's going to drive this country forward. I don't mind the warlords. This law may not suit me as a warrior, but warlords can become cattlemen, and they can join in. Why legal faces? Because physical faces can't hire other people. That's very difficult. It's very hard to get a loan from the Development Fund. Together with the IPARD Fund, there are conditions for them to create a stock company, a cooperative. It could be more legal to a local self-government. I would like these tenants, the warlords to be also cattlemen, to make their cooperatives, agricultural processing, to make what they produce in the field of processing in their processing capacity, to supplement their incomes, to employ their family members, and hence the right of the 30-year championship for investments guaranteeing employment, and such an amendment has already been adopted. Why do I say it's an engagement? If they hadn't, they'd have taken 30 years to rent this land that they sold for 50 million acres, and 100 thousand of which are cooperative, and 200 thousand are state-owned, because at the moment of sale it was turned into state, we would have a lease of 1.8 billion euros for 30 years today and land would be worth three billion today, and they sold it for 50 million, and for 15 years it would be worth six billion, which would be a third of our debt, and thus we could serve our debt. So, it's a disappointment, you get income that can't be less than 200 euros per hectare, because that's the average price for our cattlemen, and on the other hand, that land increases the value of time. If they did, and they didn't, we were richer by three billion today, and in 15 years they'd have six billion in land. How did they do? I'll read it. The contract with the winery "Zivkovic" says "The Land of Article 1 of this Treaty is leased for a period of 40 years". By 2052, without any commission, without any employment, without any investment plan, without any programme, without the bottom price of the 200-euro lease, the lease was 60 euros per hectare. Those who did this to us, those who did this to Serbian citizens today have the courage to complain here to those who want to correct all these anomalies. Such a policy, and I apologize to the citizens, can only be described with one sentence – whatever happens to the buttocks, doesn't bother the cheek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46000	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, together with the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr. Dejan Chapo. The word is made by the circuit secretary Branislav Bogaroski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46001	Thank you. This is exactly, as has already been said, the most controversial part of the law. Namely, by discharging 30% of the total national land fund that is intended exclusively for legal persons from which those who have so far leased this land are excluded, I fear we are coming to a serious problem, as regards agriculture in the Republic of Serbia, especially in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We have a situation that in the territory of the AP Vojvodina we have 450 thousand hectares of state land of which some 137, almost 140 thousand hectares of land are lower-class, urinal and pastures, which have never been of interest to our farmers before. So somewhere around 320,000 acres of oracics, 1/3 out of 450 thousand acres is 150 thousand acres. So, half of the total ora fund, and the land's users so far have been 80% of the cases registered agricultural holdings. Through a procedure which, in my opinion, is unconstitutional, contrary to Article 87. The constitution, because there are no detailed conditions under which the investment plan is approved, we are listening here to the fact that it will produce this and that, but it does not say in the law. In law, there are preconditions for who can submit an investment plan, but not criteria for how an investment plan will be approved. So, I can't physically, our farmers can't rent that state land, and so far they've been tenants. In fact, they will be excluded from the best part of state land for a period of 30 years, which is a working century, and for most of those who deal with agriculture today, it is a lifetime. So we're guessing directly one, and probably two generations that will have serious problems with their existence. We can bid on the number of people who are at risk, we can say that in this year it's six thousand, but we can say that in 2012, there were over 10,000 family owners who were renting state land, which are now left without the main source of existence. That is why this solution, one - unconstitutional, two - is certainly bad for those who have been land users so far. I want to believe that it can produce good effects, but I can't be sure of it like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46002	Thank you, Mr. Bogorski. The word has an amendment by Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46003	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would agree with some of the assessments we've heard here by the people of the Ministry that productivity has just been in large systems that have been destroyed in the near 1990s. The previous law was not good because, if you want to deal with seed production, if you want to deal with some higher level of farming processing, it is not possible if you do not have organized systems like former PICs, which we had at some point, which are often mentioned today. In particular, in the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, there was a PIK Sirmium, which was one of the larger agricultural combinations. You know about PIC Vienna, who paid a great price for the last Land Act, and we also fought against the previous Agricultural Land Act, because we felt that it would not do any good. When we talk about long-term lease, we can agree that much of the land should be leased in the long term. What we can't agree on is the way it happens. What's the most controversial thing for us is, which is why it's not exactly allowed for those who are renting that land to do their own analysis, an investment plan, so let's bid, how much they want to pay for that land, which would be a completely transparent way to come, practically to the same result. The second thing, we think there's a basis for, say, the Constitutional Court to challenge this law tomorrow. You say: investment is needed. A foreign investor when he comes to Serbia one of the first things he will do is legal, financial and tax "deligent", a process based on which they are absolutely certain that their investment tomorrow will not be in trouble for some legal reasons. If there is a minimum doubt that the Constitutional Court can say – you cannot give good of general interest in long-term leases based on sublegal acts, as provided for now by this law, the law may fall before the Constitutional Court. In this case, investors themselves who are due to come will certainly feel uncomfortable, or will withdraw that investment. I think there's room to not exclude the individuals from the process, to be both legal and physical, we suggested it. There's no need to be just one legal person, it can be a few investors, and I don't know why it insists on a 30% figure. That percentage could have been much smaller, where then it would have given our farmers a chance to buy that land for a long time. First of all, I think of domestic cattlemen and people who have already had some leases under the current law. These are all the things we predicted in our amendment, and I think there was room to make some compromises. I don't know why it is so hard for the ministry to insist on a solution that a commission based on some investment plan itself decides whether to give a person land for 30 years, because there are a number of problems that can arise in such a non-transparent process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46004	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46005	Up to 30% right of the championship. Here, I've been answering my remarks about this member for a while, now to pick up where I left off. Let me refer to the issue of constitutionality. We have consulted the Constitution, members of the Constitution 87, paragraphs 2 and 3, and I just said that this member of nature's wealth is good of general importance in accordance with the law. That's what's meant by this law. Also, conditions, way and process of exercising the right of the agricultural land championship are foreseen, again by law. I just pointed out that these are the basic rules, the basic way and the procedures, and I said that transparency will be provided through the annual programme, adopted at the level of local self-government, through a committee that will be public, which will be advertised in "the Official Messenger", through a regulation that is also binding a legal act, which is also subject to the assessment of constitutionality, which will also be published in "the Official Messenger". By the way, be riverside, the suggestion of the AP Assembly is - the public and more legal tenants. We've provided the public, and we don't run away from the public, because we don't have any personal friends, we're just creating an ambience to attract investors. In doing so, we think of investors as foreign investors, we also think of domestic investors, we also think of those individuals that you mention. Why wouldn't our farmers, especially those stronger, who are economically stronger, join together, so they bought a share, 10%, 20% or 30% in the area of some local self-government. We want them to show that they too are willing to take loans, to invest their own resources and to benefit the state, because we do not forget, this is a resource of general interest. So this is a resource all citizens have the right to have, regardless of agriculture, health care or any work in a factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46006	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, each party has the right to its own political campaign. I wonder, and ask you, who guarantees the current tenants that next year they will be renters of this agricultural land? Why do we keep talking only about 5,400 warriors, or 4,300 farmers, because 1,100 of the 5,400 cattle farmers seem to be, and they already have privileges under the bill? Let's see what kind of grudges come in. What kind of comings we can appreciate by what parties they come from. Article 3, which Mr. Martinovic knows, the Privatisation Act says -- it is said that natural goods cannot be the subject of privatisation, and then the opinion of Aleksandr Vlahovic, who was a member of the party of the former regime, was older than the law and the Constitution, and that was the subject of privatisation. Well, I'll say that, for example, in Secera "Kovačica", whose capital was worth 20 million, which was sold for three euros, and capital estimated at 20 million euros, agricultural land which was also built from 181 hectares, 84 acres, 65 square meters sold for three euros with sugar, sugar, machinery of the economy. When you share it to rule out sugarcane, you get 20 euros a cent, less than 20 euros per hectare. Also, other things should be appreciated when the promoter asks something that it is almost inconceivable to call on the Constitution those who want to be subject to a referendum they conduct, a party, to be an international agreement called the SAA that they have signed and that they have done and signed in agreements with people from the EU. So they're asking the subject of the referendum to be a 20-seven-time international agreement, that if someone is talking about constitutionality they should say so. There's one saying that the promoter is often called on, and I'm holding here, this is the financial director of the party of the former regime, otherwise the godfather and friend of the other leader, I'm holding here and that 1,200 acres of the best land in the state property is replaced by thorns, canals, etc. In the Indji municipality. It is the company "Agrounia" and thus we can see that it was the region and the government of the Republic of Serbia before the change was managed by agricultural land. We have no intention of doing so, and I'm afraid their doubts are based on the abuses they've committed while they've had power and held such power. It doesn't occur to us to do that. We think that this member, a great opportunity for farmers to really join together, to create apart from the farming of livestock, to process, and to be one modern processing cooperative who will have the right to up to 30% of the land in the territory of their local self-government to rent and thus to supplement their income, to employ their own households, to stay in the country, not to go to town, to not fill overcrowded cities that do not have industrial support, and that the money they earn comes to all of us to have a real cover for salaries and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46008	Thank you. Replication of Ms. Minister's presentation, Regional Secretary Branislav Bogorovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46009	Thank you. I don't think you understood me very well. The main objection of the AP is not that one is a legal person. It was also corrected by the amendment. The main observation is that natural persons who have been tenants have been excluded so far. We are constantly in the debate that has been happening in the last few weeks, in the last few months we have a story of usurpation. We don't target usurperers with this solution. We target those who regularly and legally made their way to agricultural land and paid the rent of state agricultural land in orderly and legally. These people are really going to lose that country's finest land. I'm going back to the AP Vojvodina account again because as the provincial secretary, I am obliged to take care of the interests of agriculture in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So, 150,000 hectares to assume is the best countries will be destined for investors, because the investor will not come to take either swamp, nor the morning, nor the pasture, but will be in line with the economic interests of investors to be interesting what is best. It is expected that within 24 hours, our farmers start joining together for 48 hours, and they have not joined together for 20 years, and through this legal or legal form of organization, it is simply not real. We will punish people who made market surpluses, which are the most advanced part of Serbian agriculture and the most advanced part of agriculture in Vojvodina. These are the people who have invested serious money in improving their landowners, made a mistake and invested in the machinery, and now they will be in a situation where if they are not able to rent that state-owned land fund they have so far that banks will come to take away what they took from them on loan. It's a fact that needs to be taken care of. No one is against investment, but a fundamental question is raised – whether the investment should be carried out in such a way that the investor for processing capacity...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46010	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46011	... to give the investor for the processing capacity and the land fund along the way and to enable it to create a closed system where there is no room for those who have so far engaged in primary production and have been able to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46012	Thank you. Replica, Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46013	Mr Bogoroški received a word on my understanding of the objections, i.e. suggestions that have reached the Parliament of the AP, and in the light of the amendments they have submitted clearly writes – there is no public security in the allocation of land. I explained how I think the public has just been provided. The second observation is that the bill provides for the possibility of only one legal person being an investor. I referred to these two suggestions when I took my word and responded to the amendment of the previous MP. What I'm trying to say is that you're saying that we're now going to give the best land for some investors. Based on what do you base that assumption of yours? We have tried to prepare this law as seriously and responsibly as possible. We've been working, believe me, for a year intensively, and before me, I've started making this bill, and we have all the relevant data, and we're ready to put each of this information to your attention. You say, our farmers will be left without being able to process the land. I say, they will not stay. This one's been leased. This is all unprocessed. He can be available to them. You say -- they bought the machinery, now they're out of land. They don't run out of land, and I'm asking you -- how could someone base their business policy on state resources? That means they've always won the same at the bidding. They were always sure that they would win, rent land, and we know that there were always bigger, more powerful and stronger land at the expense of those small, tiny ones. They have no opportunity to take the land, and if they take it, they take the land that remains for them from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46014	Thank you. Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, here's why they were safe. You don't have to be the first to bid to get agricultural land into lease. You may be second, but subject to the payment of 200,000 in accordance with Articles 10(3) and 4 prior to the bid on 13 April 2012. The law on funding political activities of the DS, party to the former regime. This is their report, official. The owners of that company, you can see for yourself, not to mention names, people here can't defend themselves, I took it all out of the APR, whoever wants to check, say GP. in code 72, he was given the right to lease, but in the record of the bid of the GP. has another offer of value. Anyone who wants can see for themselves. I've got a few decisions like this. This is from the Indji municipality territory. Here you go, G.P. He's got 25,400 dinars less than the first, but by decision he gets that land, and G.P. is also the owner of that company that donated 200,000 dinars. I also cited examples that in 2052 the famous "Wine House" was issued for 60 euros and it is not true that 2.7 agricultural land in India was founded, that is, exactly 2.7 hours from now. Why do I say it in a few hours? If someone can register agricultural land, which is complicated, submits a request on the basis of parcels on July 2nd, like Krajkovac Merošin in Indjia, and checks all of this for a few hours and registers it, why don't these farmers register a legal person, which is less complicated, participate in the law of the charter championship, individually form a cooperative, use this right, make use of the production of livestock food, packaging of fruits, vegetables, meat production, milk, processing and thus supplementing their income? It is only up to us to try to initiate changes in the laws that will bring more revenue to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have already stated here that this has been done for the financial director of the former regime's party, and since these province's proposings are often used in the words of Baltazar Bogisic, the famous lawyer, Mr Martinovic knows this, I am obliged to say his next sentence. He says: "The worst is when one of his evil deeds is of the benefit of another." I think that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46016	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46017	Ladies and gentlemen, I think too much politics has entered this institute. The intention is certainly good. If you look at the situation with the size of parcels and agricultural holdings in Serbia, you realize how uncompetitive we really are with Europe. We want to do a job, go to the European market, and 2.6 times our agricultural holdings are smaller than they are in the EU. Can we now gather our private agricultural holdings overnight, or only through state land can we increase the average agricultural parcels in Serbia? I think the answer is pretty clear. Today, in Europe, it is understood that you are a competitor, that you can achieve a certain income that you can compete with these countries of Europe if you have a agricultural land of more than 10 hectares. It's ours at 5.4 acres. We have over 48% of the owners who have two acres. So, this institute, first and foremost with the right of the lease, but then we'll have the opportunity for farmers to buy agricultural land, state agricultural land, which is intended to increase agricultural possessions and thus reach intensive agriculture. This intensive agriculture is the only way for our farmers to make more serious income and to survive when we enter the EU. So there's no reason to disrespect this institute. This institute doesn't mean that one person, the amendment is adopted, I think it's clear to everyone, some colleagues ignore it knowingly or unconsciously, that even more persons, more legal persons. What's the problem with legal faces? Is it a problem for a natural person to become a legal person? Well, the legal face is easier to control, the tax authorities have better insight. If you've already leased state land to someone, and it's a serious area, why wouldn't it be a legal face? So, all this is designed by this institute, I think it's in favour of domestic agriculture, that if we can't already increase subsidies and that we have not nearly as much subsidies as the EU has, if we can't provide adequate interest in agriculture, if we don't have a defined market, let us at least increase the parcels. Give with these larger parcels, which are early Serbian agriculture cancers, means 10, 20 and 30 hectares, to try to make our agriculture more competitive than it is now. So let us have a little bit more understanding, because this law in general, and this institute has first and foremost that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46018	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46019	Thank you very much. I just want to make a contribution to this amendment of ours. In fact, another aspect that no one sees, at this point we have between 50 and 150,000 entrepreneurs, or people who work during the period of agricultural work in the fields that are completely invisible to the Ministry of Labour and in general to this country. Their diaries range from 700 to 1300 dinars, working from eight to ten hours a day. Of these couples, they have to pay for transport to the field and they have to pay for food, and some employers, especially the big ones, as they say, they have to bring even water. So that's the other side of this whole story. What people for a reason are afraid of, we already have rural proletaries, people who have virtually nothing to live on. In particular, mothers, or women who even write children out of school, are affected because they cannot simply define their schooling. It's the current situation on the ground. One more thing that is particularly characteristic, employers reject the Law on Temporary Timely Jobs. In fact, they happen to report their work to those under the age of 25. An example of a 47-year-old mother who was registered to her son's ID card who was a student under the age of 26. They're very happy when they get the chance to work for that money. There are employers who even blackmail them -- if they don't work for such a small amount, there's someone who'll work for less. It is from April of the month or already when agricultural work starts, from the tearing of brooms to picking cherry, apples, etc., until autumn. It's a momentary situation. Unfortunately, these people are nowhere in the system visible, and that should be dealt with by the Ministry of Labour. I just want to show that these people, for a reason, are afraid, who don't have a country, that they've been living off the lease, that they have a problem now, if something like that happens, that their families will live on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46020	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. You want from the group? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46021	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm just going to make a point on Ms. Secretary's exposure. We think you're going to have a big problem inside the Ministry tracking down investment plans based on which someone won the lease championship. We've already had an example because in order to carry out control of these investment plans, you need an entire institution of people who will be able to do this job. That's why we insisted - why shouldn't the price at the auction be the only one who decides who's going to rent the land in question? We already have a control problem. You yourself said there are 18 inspectors in all of Serbia who work in very poor conditions. You already have a shortage of people to monitor the control of the implementation of this and this law. We also have a shortage of people at the Agrarian Payments Authority. We're going to meet the European funds. Croatia had some 700-800 employees only there, so they failed to implement all the funds based on EU funds, so I fear that you will have to make another whole institution of people who will follow only the implementation of investment projects, and you yourself have been instructed that there are a lot of problems in matters of arbitration, that is, when such matters are decided on by some committees, without clearly laid down rules, or what are the criteria on which investment plans will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46022	Your task force has wasted its time, we've moved on to power. On Article 7 of the amendment, with corrections, the same text was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic and the MPs of the parliamentary group, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46023	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 7 is dedicated to a larger gross domestic product per hectare per unit of surface area than it has ever been before. We do not enter private agricultural land, although many countries do. We give cattlemen the advantage for a simple reason – come on, when we want to join the EU, to see 104 million hectares of farmland as much as the EU has cows? I'll tell you - 89 million. So 0.8, per hectare, almost one cow, not cattle. Serbia has less than 300,000 pieces per four million hectares of farmland, less 0.1, nine times less than in the EU. This is one of the reasons why cattlemen have the right to more than one lease, but cattlemen are also warlords. I want the warlords to become cattlemen, to take some cattle. Yes, the SSP problem, we have a lot of problems, but together, hand in hand, we can go forward. We didn't adopt the SAA, but we inherited it. What's inherited - we have to rock. Hence, we must look together with others for solutions that are better. Also, I have to tell you, as far as employment is concerned, this is where your superiors are mentioned. One warrior, one steamer, and I've done it, hires a tractor worker at 100 to 200 acres with a modern machine, a month to two a year, and a couple of sugar pickers. State agricultural land has not harvested fruit, so far it has grown. In three years, there'll be corn-tail tails. In five years, there will be a turnip-tail-rope, at least three years. Agricultural land was being destroyed, and Europe is therefore overusing mineral fertilisers to 7% of its land. When it loses its fertility, it will take us 150 years to restore the fertility of some ruined, degraded land. These are the reasons why we gave the cattlemen the right to the lease, for the simple reason that if we want to irrigate or water, as someone says, we have to have a cattle fund. So, for organic manure, we get the conditions that this land is irrigated because otherwise it cannot be irrigated, because it is being implanted, degraded, erosion, etc. Experts, and here they are, they know it anyway. Europe has every 10.7 hectares of one employee, but it has a processing industry, and we are dealing with philosophy – better introduced than produced. The intention of this government, the intention of those who participated in the writing of this law, the association, the intention of fellow Members who participated in the processing of this law, is to turn it around, to make it – better produced than introduced. It's better to hire than fire. Because philosophy – better introduced than produced – leads to that philosophy – better fired than hired. We're going the other way around. Better to hire than fire. Better to hire than fire. If Europe has 10.7 employees, we don't. Why don't we? Because we don't have livestock, we don't have a processing industry, because we'd have to be on our surface if we had 400,000 employees in agriculture, and we don't even have 40,000. Now, precisely because the colleague said it was necessary to work, and that amendment was adopted, Madam Minister, for new employment, therefore, in the previous members, which is why, because of the employment of the workforce, because of the income of a larger GDP per unit of surface, we are changing this law, not only to make it better for the millions, but to make it better for millions. If there's no livestock, ladies and gentlemen, political contemplators and non-existants, if we don't go into the development of livestock, there won't be cows, they'll think the peasants have evacuated them, there won't be any cows in a few years. You won't have anything in the election campaign to pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46024	The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46025	Dear President, I want to use the time of the parliamentary group. Dear Minister, honourable associates, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group has accepted three amendments to this bill, and this one to the draft law on Article 7. I'd just like to say some things about this amendment of ours. What is extremely important, regarding this Article 7, is that the right of the lease is able to achieve more legal persons in the territory of a local self-government, which is extremely significant. I should point out that not only legal persons, but cooperatives and all others, after all, as the Minister of Agriculture said, are also natural persons, in a way, or larger producers can participate in the competition, or they can get state agricultural land for use through the right of the lease. This is extremely important, for example, for fruit growing. It's also important if someone wants to make a pond or something. It is also extremely important that you have accepted our amendment and related to the fact that the right of the lease from this member can also be achieved on catastrian parcels that have not been leased and used in the previous three agro-economic years. So, that agricultural land that hasn't been used can be offered to various investors in the future. We have another amendment to Article 8 that has been accepted. It is related to the fact that all producers participating in a public competition, i.e. bidding, for agricultural land, for at least three years must have their residence in that catastrian municipality, or in the territory of local self-government in order to exercise that right. It is extremely important that you have accepted this amendment as well. The third amendment applies to Article 11, through which we want to tighten the conditions - if someone wants to buy state agricultural land it is at least five years must have a place of residence in the local self-government and must have ownership in active status for three years, which is also extremely significant. It is extremely important that you accept this to enable farmers and ten kilometers from the border, so in that part, the same possibility of buying state agricultural land. Yes, the government of the Republic of Serbia needs consent to do so, but in the end it is possible. Why does it matter? Because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and EU citizens under the same conditions can buy agricultural land as can be done by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What can we do? We can't change the SAA, that's for sure. Today in the previous debate it is detailed why, but we can tighten the conditions of how to get to the state agricultural land, how to purchase. It is extremely important that this amendment of ours is accepted. I would like to commend all the co-workers of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as you, dear Minister. We've had correct cooperation. Talks have lasted the last few days, so every day we've been in touch and really, after all, we've been able to make a deal. We are extremely grateful that you have accepted these amendments. I'm sure by accepting our amendments in some way this law will be better, we've contributed something to that as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46026	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46027	I thank you, dear People's Parliament, to you and to all the other MPs who have submitted the amendments, who really wanted to make a real contribution to making this law even better and better. Thank you very much. I am using this possibility to point out, in the context of the talks on land giving, based on the right of the championship, what we have foreseen, which is employment. Why legal faces? Because it is those who can also invest large funds, to start production in a given area, to invest in processing capacity and to employ the unemployed. I would remind all of us here that the data says that 108 agricultural goods and 91 agricultural combinations have been destroyed since 2001, that between 300 and 500 000 employees have remained in the jobless process. We want not only to start agricultural production, but also to provide jobs. In Article 6, we added the view that legal persons entitled to rent agricultural land in state property will ensure the employment of unemployed persons. The Minister responsible for Labour Affairs, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of Agriculture Affairs, prescribes closer conditions for ensuring the employment of unemployed persons under Article 9. So that's another extremely important reason for bringing these changes and additions. The amendments we accepted and our work on the ground and the talks with the agricultural associations are now in support of how much we have done our best to bring as good and quality a review as possible before the MPs of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46028	Thank you. Ambassador Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46029	According to some forecasts, we'll close the chapters in four years. When are we going to join the EU? Well, make it ten years from now. Do we have the opportunity to prepare to be competitive and compete with EU members? If we're going to be honest, it's very difficult, and that's why it really has to go with the maximum power to fix what's been destroyed so far and what's not right. It won't do us any good to fight all the time, if we keep hitting on each other who did what and who didn't do what. So, mind your head and let's try our best to help farmers and rebuild what we've ruined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46030	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46031	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister, members of the province's Assembly, or the Secretary of Agriculture of the province of Vojvodina and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the best interest of making a legal, as modern as possible today, project us to make use of within as long a time as possible and that it is primarily for the benefit of Serbian citizens. With regard to the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which said for Article 7 that these provisions are not sufficiently precise and subject to different interpretations in practice, giving public authorities broad discretion when deciding on the right of the lease. In this respect, it is necessary to specify precisely the conditions and criteria for making a decision on the right of the championship and to provide for the possibility that more persons, not just one in the territory of local self-government, can exercise this right. In addition, conditions and criteria should be laid down for the selection of members of the commission educated by the minister. I wouldn't read any further. We all got this. We've been looking for a full change in article 64 to make this whole procedure more transparent, better, in our opinion, which is not binding for anyone. It reads – The right of the lease is realised in a procedure conducted by the unit of local self-government by making a public call. A public call from Article 1 of this Article shall be issued by 30 June of the current year, and a public call with the necessary documentation of the investment plan and a proposal for a measure for the realization of the lease shall be submitted by 31 October of the current year to the unit of local self-government. I'll use the time of the authorised representative, Madam Chairman. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. So I wouldn't read the whole thing. The bottom line of this is that, for example, agreement, on an investment plan and a proposal for a lease implementation measure, they give up by 20 November of the current year at the latest and that the commission which the minister is trained in agricultural affairs, with the total area cannot be greater than 30%, etc. The essence of this amendment that I want to say now is that it respects the importance and the functionality of the local self-government that we have seen here. First you can't rent land from one unit of local self-government on the second unit of local self-government, and then we took away the right to make public calls and commissions, etc., with the consent of the ministry. So we tried to do this degree here in solving this problem not to bypass the ministry, but to make it clear that whoever is supposed to be doing it, the local self-government unit whose territory is the country, and that the ministry is controlling it and that what we wrote in the explanation and writing means doing what his job is, that the Republic can suspend, excuse me, that the ministry can handle only the process and the necessary documentation, and that the conditions and criteria must be in law. I would use it in context of this, given that I have pointed out in the previous statement that the producers in the territory of the municipality from which I originate in a serious problem, because there is no country that can be leased, in that quantity they need and I have allowed myself and I want to apologize to my fellow Members and the chairman for accepting an inappropriate settlement that is suitable for some other place than the Assembly, to condition the mandates of fellow Members and I, fellow MP and myself unless one of us is telling the truth. I was aware that he wasn't telling the truth because I had an actual state and data and here I have a list of all the throats with the names of the owner and their place. I want to give it to the Ministry because there are numbers, to check it out and give the following information. So today there are 202 throats, of which 709 offspring, 250 are imported. A total of 911 throats, 210 heifers, 220 champions and 270 male and female calves. As far as quality is concerned, I am obliged to insult the very manufacturer who is 31 years old, Mr. Todorovic, the owner of the neck DE0944517840, who is the absolute champion of the Resav agricultural fair in 2015, which has a 67-year tradition, so that's the throat that's imported. I pray that this truthfulness of radioactivity means, I'm not asking him to resign as he said. He apologized himself because it wasn't the place or the time or I could afford to talk to myself like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46032	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46033	The Honorable Chairman, respected Members of Parliament, and for the sake of truth first, the Committee's amendment, with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was accepted in that form as defined by the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and as proposed by Mr Marijan Risticevic. After that, the Anti-Corruption Agency was satisfied with such solutions and that all obstacles could be removed from the rule of law when we talk about the Anti-Corruption Act. And when we talk about cattle throats, the stock fund, we should be honest with each other and say that over 500 throats were slaughtered just so Mr. Miskovic could import milk powder through Imlek. The Commission for Competition Protection in the Court lost the procedure where 750m euros were given out of the budget precisely because of such a capable agriculture policy run by the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46034	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46035	Thank you. Dear People's MP, you are clearly proposing a new organisation of agricultural land management in public property, and I must tell you that this matter has been arranged by the Constitution and it says well, it also says that the state agricultural land is managed by the state of Serbia, managed and available, and that units of local self-government are responsible for the adoption and implementation of annual programmes for the protection and use of agricultural land. Furthermore, I would like to mention that, mentioned today by our MPs, a long-term lease of up to 30 years. It is said to be a long period, and I must say that this is the period for which experts said it was optimal for the investment, i.e. the funds invested in livestock production, to be returned to fruit production in some way to the investee. In order for us to achieve the objective of this law, in order to have greater agricultural production, in order to have greater agricultural production, in order to have processing capacities, we have to make investors either domestic or foreign, to all those who want to invest in the means to provide recognizable good conditions, a favourable business environment. You say, you mention again the Anti-Corruption Agency, it's an extremely important state institution that has given well-intentioned suggestions. We have answered all these suggestions because we want the law to be as good as possible. On Saturday, at the Committee meetings, they were personally present, representatives of the agency and thanked them and said that we had responded well to their suggestions, and they also aim to make the law as good as possible. You're saying that you've proposed that several persons, or several legal entities, be potential tenants based on the right of the championship in the territory of a municipality. We adopted that, too. The bill contained one legal person, but it did not mean that one legal person would be as one who participates in the approval process, but it did refer to a legal person who, among several candidates, would qualify to invest in a particular area. We wanted more municipalities in Serbia to eventually get investors to raise certain cities and areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46036	Thank you, Minister. The 7th Amendment was filed by Lasslo Varg.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46037	Madam President, Madam Minister, honored guests, fellow MPs, the purpose of my amendment is not to create an opportunity in the 30-year law, 30% of state agricultural land in the lease of workers. I've had the opportunity to hear countless arguments about and against this solution, and I have to say that more or less all these arguments are in place. So, all these arguments stand. On the other hand, what's crucial is the question of interest, so the question of which interest, what argument do we want to support? I think the Ministry of Interest, the interest of the budget, has the interest of all citizens, has investors, and has the interest of small agricultural producers. What I am convinced is that members of the Hungarian community, farmers who are small farmers, are not interested in this solution and given that fact, I as someone who thanks to their votes is an MP here in the Serbian Parliament, cannot support this solution in any way. What's the problem with this solution? The problem is that the land that will remain at their disposal will be reduced. Somewhere it will be completely abolished and disabled, but the area will be reduced. What's that gonna have to do with it? On the one hand, they will close down their land, sell their land, and become practically seasonal land workers who will receive and process legal persons in this way. I think it's one big injustice, because it's a land in many places practically taken from these people, or from their parents or grandfathers, and it's now being taken away from them again. They become seasonal workers again. For that reason, this solution is unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46038	Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlović, Marjana Maras and Milan Latkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Jovan Markovic and together by Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46039	Thank you. The amendment to Article 7 deals with the essence of this law, i.e. the idea that a legal person by direct contract, on the basis of his investment plan, should be leased up to 30% of the land. I will have three remarks on both my amendment and the state of the law at this point. At this point, the law is nothing like the law that entered the congregation procedure. So, Articles 3, 4, 6 and 7 have been amended without our vote, with the consent of the Members of Parliament, the applicants for the amendments and the committees in charge, and that's the good news. Good news, because the promoter gave up the original idea. What's left in the law as a bad message to apply this law? The right of the championship, it doesn't exist, it's made up for this law to have the right of the championship, if you're a legal person. The right to prevent shopping is another thing and all the criteria you set in the Law for a natural person, they are still elaborated, for a legal person there are no criteria and they are said to have the right to the championship. The idea is that the right of the championship, if two apply, has one that's better, which I know by what's better, we don't know now, because all the criteria will be set by the government. I can point out my suspicion that two will apply to anything, and yet you have two news in the law. The first is that more legal entities can propose an investment plan, is that what you've adopted now? Not one, but more legal faces. The second is that the intention can be production for renewable energy resources. Since I think that every law should be watched by trying to imagine what it looks like, what happens if you have 2,000 acres for a country in Kickinda and you have one legal face that says - I want a pig farm, it's an investment and you have like the other, four small legal entities that aren't connected, and they've made up and they want those 2,000 acres, but for renewable energy sources, and how are you going to decide? You can tell me, it's hypothetical, it's not gonna happen. If it's not gonna happen, what do you need the right of the championship? If it's always going to be just one? Why am I saying that? In yesterday's newspaper, the title was that land was issued for Tenis, according to "Politice". I have against such a title, because it cannot stand that the land is intended, and the article calls for there to be a memorandum between the German pigmeat producer, the industrial and government of the Republic of Serbia, and that now the municipality of Kikind has issued 2,000 hectares intended for tennis. You had nothing to do with it. I describe the information I saw in the article in "Politice" and link it to the idea of the right championship you introduced. It's not a problem if I criticize it and it's not a problem if I don't understand the right of the championship, but the problem is that we all get a clear answer together, what does that mean now that the law is changed in relation to the basic text that we got in the procedure? I think it's a common benefit. I remain on the stand that the decision, that there are no legal criteria in the law, is not constitutional, and the motion says that it is constitutional, legitimate, but I think that only the Constitutional Court, based on our constitutional appeal and the assessment of constitutionality, can decide whether or not it is constitutional, that you have, for the natural persons, all the criteria in the law, as it should, and for the legal persons, those criteria will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have to understand that it produces doubts, doubts, with the hope that we will all clarify what the right of the championship is and what will happen in case two, or two, one plus four appear, it is my request that you consider our amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46040	Jovan Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46041	Dear Minister, let me start with what Mr Risticevic said, so he says the land is the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which I fully agree with, of course, like everyone else. Then in the second part of our exposure, we have come to the motive of passing this law, where he says we need to make as many incomes as possible, which is a legitimate thing again. What we've been trying to open here as a topic is whether this law is compatible with the Constitution, and we're saying that in Article 87, that's not true, and in your answer you gave us confirmed our claims, and a few minutes ago you say that you're interpreting the Constitution, that same Article of Article 2 and 3 have come to the conclusion that it's unlawfully available to general natural resources, without laws. We've been saying that all along, you've had to predict all these procedures, conditions, criteria in the application of this law, before we discuss it, not leave it to some commissions or sublaws there, that sort of thing. Secondly, we tell you, without a job, the income will be over 10,000 people, and you tell us it's not true, there will be four and a half thousand in Vojvodina, and 700 in Serbia, it means 5,000. So is the topic of whether it's 50 or 500, we can't let people stay out of work and income and become rent workers, with some investors, who you bring to Serbia at a small door. We say, the serious problem is that people who have so far used this land, who have taken loans to mechanize, who have had their own family plans, etc., for future investment, etc., now have to come into a position to work with some investors, and you tell us here – so whoever is defending them, let them join. Here, Mr. Risticevic says let them build cooperatives, so let them team up; but how do people team up if you predict that you have competitions already this year, right? You have some bids, you have some analysis of their investment programs, so how are people in this year going to be in a position to even compete with some big funds or companies if they only have their own tractor? How can you expect people to be able to team up in the next 30 years if the best land is already sold? So why don't we open the topic and say, yes, we'll really have a problem as a society, as a state, which thousands of families in the coming period will have to show up every new season at the competition to work with some people who came in here to use what they're using today? How do you think people get together in 2016, 2017 if you are now planning to practically 30 years from now that land they were building was given to others? It's just not possible. That's why we asked this article 7 to change it. You have not respected our proposals, of course, as well as any other amendments, you have used here through this public debate the support of many MPs who have not even read our amendments to accuse us of various things, but this does not contribute to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46042	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a very ugly bidding on how many agricultural producers will disappear in Serbia if this law goes into effect. I'd like the minister to come out and say how much farmland there is today in private property that isn't being processed. Why isn't it being processed? It hasn't been processed in ten years. Now the problem is that we're going to give 30% of the land that is owned by the state under some strategic goals. That's the problem. Anyone who prevents anyone from dealing with agriculture from renting and private land that is now not being processed. Who's stopping who? Are those market conditions? They did. Well, why aren't you doing that? We're talking about some of the current agricultural producers being subordinated if this Article 7 of the law applies. Well, aren't they already in a subordinate position? Well, for small money. Work for Miskovic, Babovic, for Kolet, for Peconia, for Todorovic, for Matijević. Do you defend their interests? I think it's theirs. This whole resistance to this law is that a political-economic oligarchy is finally coming apart, the state is setting up an area and you're fighting it. What, is it because someone was paying donations to a foreigner when he took part in a competition for the award of agricultural land on a public advert? Come take a look at it once, and it's all funny to you, it's not funny to me, look at it once, go through Vojvodina and through the Stig and through the valley of the Peck River, see how much unprocessed land there is that isn't state, there's no one to process it. It seems to me that it is a problem, because when this law comes in application and now the unprocessed land will become expensive for trade and not be able to buy this political-economic oligarchy in a cheap way, which is why it is so resistant to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46044	The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46045	Ladies and gentlemen, very much so, I would say, not to say the ugly words, but they are both ugly and too scary farmers by some colleagues. I have to repeat something, this law with these 250 thousand hectares currently being issued in agricultural land, certainly in the next two years we will have at least 50 to 60 thousand hectares of more land to issue. That's one. Two, 30 percent. So 30% won't disappear from that state fund this year and won't be issued to some tenants. It takes years to design, to prepare projects, to invest serious financial resources. Do we have these investors? It's about tens of billions of euros. A total investment in Serbia is estimated at about seven-eight billion euros. So, in Serbia's entire economy in a year. Everything can then be implemented for years from this perspective. So, it will be implemented in certain municipalities where individual investors need to be interested, but there will be no situation to lose 30% of agricultural land overnight. I'm sure in the next two years and a simple bill, there'll be more countries to issue than there are at this point, that's one. Are these people gonna be out of a job? Well, of course not. In addition, do not underestimate our farmers, they know how to adapt well to legal regulations. Very quickly, we're going to have a large number of those who will make and companies and go out with projects. I believe, this is so and designed that they first of all get to this agricultural land before we have to, if we have to, in 2017, if we have to, I wouldn't be exclusive, it's a long way from 2017, October 2017, we have two years until then. I don't think there should be much running ahead of the ore and that there are opportunities and ways to prevent such an easy alienation of agricultural land. There's a possibility of a series of barriers. I'm sure someone will recognize those possibilities in the next period, but I don't think it's a good time to talk about it right now. So, as for small wages, come on, it doesn't matter, small wages are in all areas of the economy. Come on, let's ask ourselves, why in our own country have we become a cheap workforce and a technological surplus? What kind of transition have we been carrying out these 12 years? What kind of capitalism did we choose? There's an answer to all that. What kind of labour market do we have today? How did we create it? No, it's certainly not SNS' fault, and it certainly hasn't happened in these years or two, it's been going on since 2000 and back here. So, come on, be a little more self-critical and don't make it so easy to accuse us of losing some 1,000 early spots. No one's going to lose their jobs, everyone's going to have a chance to rent agricultural land, and, please, we're talking about some hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land. About three million and 300,000 have orna, so at least I came up with that data in Serbia. It is only three percent of Serbia's agricultural land. So, it's not about any disaster you're talking about, it's a long way from any disaster. This is just an opportunity to show up serious, big players, who can deal with intense agriculture. Which we need over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46046	The word is Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46047	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister of Associates, clearly defines in this article exactly how, under what conditions is issued for 30 years, i.e. 30% of the state agricultural land. We're always in large numbers, we're always in big numbers, and I'd be the happiest if in 2016 we'd issue all that agricultural land, all the 30% that's meant to be. You know what kind of GDP we'd make if it were all that way? This is just one small step towards a new development cycle in agricultural production, and we're constantly sticking to big figures. I'm going to go back to small farmers, so I'm going to give two examples again. One hectare of apples is an investment of about 30 to 35 000 euros. Of the two hectares, gentlemen, the family and how well it can live, if we consider that income between 15 and 17 000 euros, and the annual cost is about 5,000 euros. So between 20,000 and 30,000 euros remains one family for a year if he raises an apple orchard. In order to raise the apple orchard, they have to plan for a longer period of 30 years. When they know they have stable funding conditions, each bank will support, and there is a Development Fund, there are IPARD programs that we talk very little about, because in the previous period it's very little done, but it's finally being prepared now and that segment. Another example is to take whether greenhouse or plastic production, one hectare yields income as 150 hectares of wheat. One family and how it can live well, and the intensity to join more families, to form cooperatives, to create legal entities that will have easier access to financial resources with very favourable sources of funding. When we take these examples, so we keep looking back at 50, 100, about hundreds of thousands of acres of talk, we simply have to turn to this part that's actually most interesting to us. Big investors, I would be the happiest if everyone would come and make processing facilities, so who needs to drive raw materials out of here to process it somewhere, when it's cheaper on the spot to work in this country of Serbia. Thirdly, we keep looking back at AP Vojvodina, are the orans most fertile, is the most orderly, but we completely forget one of the great potentials of central, eastern Serbia, where we have great potential for the development of vegetable production, for the development of fruit production. It is one great fortune and we always forget how many plums, which is the brand of the Republic of Serbia, just to increase the orchards under the plums, so you know how much income we can make, such as products such as dried plums, or plum processing, which is the brand of the Serbian state. All in all, this Article 7 as proposed and as good, clearly defines all the conditions and gives one chance both to development and investment both to small farmers and to large investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46048	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46049	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. I think we've been on this article for a really long time. I would say, as a summary, that definitely agriculture, after all we've heard today and especially in this article, is the basic branch of the economy, that is, our basic development and the foundation, and in this sense we're all afraid and there's some concern about whether this law will really go in the right sense. What I want is for us to believe first of all that this will improve the situation in our agriculture, especially if we consider that our livestock farming is at a level of 1900, especially if we take it to a level, as we have already heard, that our fields are empty, that our hills are empty, that there are no cattle, that there are no so far and what I want to say is that this law is not only about Vojvodina, and I would mention it because I come from the Zlatibor County, where it is very important this branch, especially when it comes to fruit growing and livestock. What matters to us is precisely this right that someone who has a small plot, if it is a state plot, can borrow it, of course, for some longer years, so that he can plan some serious investments. What I would also say is that these very small plots have made it impossible for us to work seriously on agriculture, especially in the Goldibor region, where in some places because of the configuration of the terrain we can't even apply the machinery because of small parcels. So, togethering, association, we've had this big start with embezzlement, merger, where even foreign investors are coming, or our people from abroad are coming and helping our farmer to start production, so that's what's been going on with us. I'm sure, I'll give another example, very briefly, as the King's wife came from France, bought agricultural land around the Kings, set out to plant raspberries. The peasants, who mostly left, didn't want to live here, here, now they're coming back and they're all starting to plant raspberries. So someone from France should have come, is our wife, and in that sense it is positive, it took someone from France to come and show us how it's done. I'm sure this will move us forward. So don't be skeptical. There is a fear of abuse in all of us, but I hope that our people will first and foremost have a championship in these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46050	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46051	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I simply can't shake the impression at the end of this debate about Article 7 without saying that I have the impression that now there are cheap political points at the expense of farmers, at the expense of peasants. Some thought of peasants now, and farmers. They are remembered whenever there are elections or when it comes to such good laws. They didn't remember them either in 2001, 2005 and 2008 etc, but now they're taking care of them. Despite my desire to show all of you and the public that Article 7 is not a member who provides secrecy in the allocation of state land to some of our friends, on the contrary, that it is very transparent. With all the desire to show it, simply, individuals remain on the issue that we will give direct land to a contract, 30%, that some of our farmers will be left with no means to live. They just haven't heard of the right of the championship. In 2006, the law envisioned this right of the championship, so it was abolished in 2009. Our farmers don't need to worry. Serbia has enough countries and state and private-owned ones, which is unfortunately rooted, abandoned, left behind. Other countries not to settle matters related to state agricultural land, but also to private agricultural land, so private agricultural land owners must process it or be treated by someone else, and will rent it to them. We deal with state agricultural land, good of general interest. With this land we need to achieve, to restore the level of agriculture that has been destroyed for the past ten and more years. Here, one more picture of how raw the land is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46052	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46053	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, in Article 8, stands exactly the criterion that a natural person should meet so that they can apply for land at all for 30 years. Then we just don't understand why there are no legal criteria like this, but it's your discretionary right and your ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where exactly those who have failed to honor the gentleman from across the street will be renters of land instead of those people who have rented and lived there so far. We've just heard from several previous speakers about the number of people and not only those who will have direct damage, which is 70,000 families, but you've had and you've heard about 150,000 peers, you've heard how many citizens can't survive today, and how little they can't do tomorrow. You know you brought this, this law, because of Tennis. You know yourself that in a very bad way you put the citizens in a subordinate position because you have prescribed for them what conditions they must meet, but for Tennis there are no conditions. There are no conditions for tenis for a simple reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46054	Article 8(1) shall be deleted. If you can explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46055	You have not read Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46056	Article 8(1) You can explain. Article 8(1) shall be deleted. I have a text in front of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46057	So in Article 8, there are criteria for natural persons, but there are no criteria for Tennis. Why? Because you absolutely prefer him to this law and give him the possibility that tomorrow without any problems he can for 30 years...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46058	Explain, please, why delete the criteria for physical faces.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46059	I know the name Tennis is very insolent and painful, but it's true, unfortunately. And that's one of the reasons why we didn't have a congregation transfer in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46060	Thank you. I have asked a member of your parliamentary group, who is chairman of the Information Committee, to officially ask a question, because the most important question comes from your parliamentary group is why something is being transferred or not. Otherwise, to inform you, time has been spent by your MP group. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46061	Thank you. I simply find it amazing to ask that this member be deleted, as this particular member and this provision safeguard our small and medium-sized agricultural producers. The conditions required by this article are definitely 90% of the large agricultural producers or tycoon, as someone calls them, will certainly not meet. For the sake of the public, I'm just going to point out that the right to participate in the public tender for the lease of agricultural land in the state property, in the first round, has a natural person who is registered in the register of agricultural holdings and is in active status for at least three years, means that he is already seriously engaged in agriculture, that he has a place in the Catastrian municipality and that he has the property of a farmer's insurance company with the Republic Fund, he also has at least half a hectare of agricultural land and here, here he is defined, and for the right of the person to own at least 10 hectares. So this provision definitely protects our agricultural producers and this gives priority to our people being the tenants of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46062	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46063	The issue of seasonal workers in agriculture has been listed at 150,000. I believe there are so many, so many needs of our agricultural producers. How come 150,000? Well, that's why 300 or 500,000 people were out of work because of the destroyed agricultural combinations, because of the destroyed agricultural goods. It's just that they're getting along now, working to earn and survive, to provide the means to their families' lives. You're asking us a question. We're from a year and a half ago in this position. Again, the question arises that there will be investment, that it will be non-transparent, that it will be our political friends, or friends, that there will be some tycoons etc., etc. You weren't, you weren't listening when I made it clear that it wasn't a secret matter that when it comes to investment, it was simply a complex problem, a material that has to be considered by several ministries. The government must adopt a regulation which will specify the criteria contained, now otherwise, as conditions, as methods and as procedures for the exercise of this right by law. So we can't give a proper grade at the Ministry level. This is where experts from other ministries must be involved, local self-government must be included in whose territory the investment will be realised and the professional public must be involved. For these reasons, this part of the regulation remains, underlining that the Regulation is a legally binding act, an act which is subject to the assessment of constitutionality, an act published in the Official Messenger and which is accessible to all citizens. There will be nothing intransparent, nor what you now, in the sense of disabling the public, stand out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46064	The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46065	Thank you, Mr. Becic. This member should read so that this applies to that land that remains after Tennis and other SNS partners settle down when they choose the land that suits them, so that when the second third is returned to restitution, the third of the unprocessed land that remains will be able to buy agricultural producers. Why are they in an unfavourable position with respect to economic operators? Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic says because of the investment. Just tell me where the investment is mentioned in this law, where is this investment in production capacity, where is the employment of a certain number of people per hectare? We had an investment by an Arab investor, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, in state land and investment was reduced to buying machines for direct sowing. What kind of investment is that, and what citizens, what farmers get out of it? If investment was to be accelerated, if that is the goal, so the economic operators are brought in a more favourable position than our peasants, then why does it not say that some criteria are prescribed, and then it is said that the land will be determined in the area and that, and will be announced within that time period, will not be one legal person, we will open the competition, we from the municipality, xx, ipslon, for example, think we need that and that production capacity, we are ready to offer one quantity of land under these and these conditions, we believe that there should be so many investments per hectare within that deadline. It's investment, and we're not giving 30% based on some plan to choose investors. You tens of thousands of families, tens of thousands of citizens take the right to rent land, because you will give it to your business partners. Says Mr. Arsic – they already work on large holdings of large owners of agricultural land. Mr Arsic, if the data of the Republic Bureau of Statistics on the list of agriculture say that in 2013, in 2014, 10,969 contracts were concluded on the lease of state land with agricultural holdings and that it was an area of 289,613 hectares, then it would not be to process a land that is in somebody else's lease, but would be to process the land they own. Either he's lying to the Republic Statistics Bureau or you're not telling the truth when you say there's no interest in renting state agricultural land. The list of farms, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, says it is 289,613 hectares of leased land. In 2013, 2014 252.049 hectares. The only explanation since your government came to power is that these lease contracts have disappeared because of your incompetence or that these agricultural producers have so poored that they can't even rent land anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46066	Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. On what basis? (Veloljub Arsic, from town: For mentioning the name. Yours, Mr. Arsic? Mr. Granny, you? (Zoran Babic, from the post: Replica for mentioning the party. Yes, but Mr. Granny, I can't give it to you and him on both grounds. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Then by amendment.) Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that someone has a desire for a political struggle, I understand the desire to show that his data is credible. He's not lying to the Republic Bureau of Statistics. Any information you read can turn it any way you want. Yes, there are 10,000 contracts, but how many tenants? There are 5,400 of them. You can keep your head down for as long as you want. You're not going to make two different bids to make one contract, you're going to make two contracts. Do you understand that? Have you worked anywhere but in the public sector? Did the radio applicant of the amendments in the real sector learn a school to see how money is made, to see how a new value is created? Why do you care so much now all of a sudden about farmers? I can't understand. So many times I've accused the government of DS and DSS, the policy they've led towards a farmer or peasant, so they've led me to ask a question. The way you torture them, you better shoot them all of a sudden, than you've done to them for 12 years and now all of a sudden you're taking care of them. You left them with nothing. Only a few great owners can do whatever they want. He simply wants to come into possession of free state land and when he comes into possession for free, he can no longer. If this law had not entered into force, it could have taken free of charge the remaining agricultural land that is not being processed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46068	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46069	Mr. Chairman, I understand the amendment's proposals. I totally understand them because they want Serbia back. Because they would like to give Serbia back at a time when they directed life in Serbia, so they managed to destroy fully in the Karadjordjevo military facility in the area of nearly 3 ha. For citizens of the Republic of Information, now the reconstruction and installation of the food production function 1 ha of these greenhouses is one-third of what they found. By 2009, the Karadjordjevo Military Institute, which had 460 employees, managed to reorganize and transform the DS and reduced it to 60 employees, which made it unable to process over 3,600 ha of the country. It is an amendment for those who earn, because it is life in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46070	Don't mind Mr. Babic, Markovic does it all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46071	I speak to you, and I look at those who have ruined Serbia. I speak to you, Mr. Becic, and I will always look at those who are citizens of Serbia, who have ruined our society and devastated us. You see, Mr. Becic, they don't have the courage to look into their eyes, but they're sitting in a place like that. They're probably going to look and report to the Rules of Procedure now, because the truth hurts, because it burns down the seat where they sit, doesn't give them the right to sit still in that place where they are. Because these 460 employees were unable to process all 3,600 ha in Karajordjevo. As a result, they introduced various privates, various cooperatives, and gave them 3,600 ha in such a way that several times since 2012, the military police had to intervene here so that they could throw these people out of the property of the Karadjordjevo Military Institute, of which neither the military nor our state nor our society had any use. I understand them because they again want some workers to send home, to send employees home, to leave them without a job to free 3,600 ha of any kind on just one move so that they can under conditions that do not exist in any contract, on any written trail to give them the opportunity to process the Serbian country. The second thing is, I can't get an answer to that question -- how did they treat Mr. Becic with agricultural land, but also with building land? That shows this last affair. The land worth a billion and 540 million dinars traded for land, but agriculturally, the same area, but the value that is immeasurably less than the value they have received. Then, of course, the state gets agricultural land worth about 13 million dinars, and the building land in Novi Sad is worth a billion and 540 million dinars. Who'd it go to? Here, it comes from the Rules of Procedure that most hurt that truth, Mr. Becic. No problem. I won't be distracted. Who went to that billion and 540 million dinars? How many people in Serbia would have more to do if the billion and 500 million dinars remained in the budget? How much more would it be for pregnant women, how much more would it be for a foster mother? How much more would it be for social contributions? They took it, took it away by one signature from a former regime minister, but they won't talk about it, Mr. Becic. I understand why they want a amendment like this. Why do they want to massacre the law with this kind of amendment? They want to go back to the old ones, they want to go back to the old ones where every agricultural land has to register by the 31st.3rd year. No, there were agricultural holdings that formed, imagine 2.7, all in one day. Why? Because that agricultural land was registered by the former prime minister, the head of the former regime, and he could have registered in one day. He could have been outside the law and the law for him wasn't valid, he could have formed agricultural land in July. He could also have been incentivized for spring sowing, planting, forgive me and imagine it in November for spring planting and, by the way, another 500,000 euros that magically moved over some islands or I don't know where, in a magical way, came to old timers and apartments on Vrakar. Now, they'd like us to go back to the time of lawlessness, to go back to a time when construction land worth 1.5 billion dinars could have been traded and traded for land worth 13, 14, or 15 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46072	Please, Mr. Granny, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46073	We can't get answers, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46074	Please, Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46075	We can't get answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46076	Mr. Granny, they have no answers, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46077	I'll be done very soon. Let's get Mr. Chairman and answer the following questions. Why did you and those who are now waving business here in the National Assembly allow 38 agricultural combinations to be destroyed in the AP Vojvodina by 2012? They didn't care, they didn't care. Why have 109 agricultural goods and cooperatives been liquidated? Did some people work there? Did some people from their jobs expect to feed their families? They didn't care, Mr. Becic. An empty and abandoned 20,000 rural houses in the AP Vojvodina, I see the circuit secretary also accepts these facts because they are true. 200,000 hectares of social property have been privatised, and 100,000 ha of cooperative property has also been privatised and sold into depravity. In those cooperatives and in those privatisations, 18,000 workers were out of work. In the AP Vojvodina there are 37% of the unprocessed land, standing in the parlogum, why is this country, because they are now running the Vojvodina, why haven't they offered it? Why did they let that country stand in the parchment? Why didn't they process it? The decline in agricultural participation in GDP from 22% to 12%, each third privatisation in agriculture has been annulled, a country bought for 300 euros, or sold for 300 euros now worth 7,000 euros. They are worried about selling to foreigners, and as far as the country has been sold to foreigners in Vojvodina, 22,000 ha to the Irish company "Baltic Point". In Serbia's Miletic, Brestovac, Feketic, Agrokoru 6,000 ha, CBA Hungary 2,650 ha, Žitogroup Croatia 2,000 ha, Hyde Avis Hungary 1,500 ha etc. For all the reasons why they accuse this government of the RS when they prepared the amendments, when they prepared the speeches, they stood in front of the mirrors. They looked at themselves, watched what they did, how they did, and now they're accusing someone else. They have no right to ask a question, Mr. Becic, they have the only right to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46078	Maybe you're right, you have to finish. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Veselinović. Wait a minute, let me see some more damage to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic, you? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Miss Jerkov, you? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. ) Miss Jerkov, why do you think you are authorized, but there is no mention of the Democratic Party? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. Yes, the Democratic Party is mentioned, then you'll get it. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Mr Babic persistently insults. ) Mr. Markovic, I can't hear anything the MPs say in the National Assembly are discussing when all you do is throw, yell, you're unhappy, you're unsatisfactory, and I can't hear. I can't concentrate, I can't listen to the debater when you're constantly throwing something, something, something, and I just want you to do the same thing when your party colleagues say it. When you show that you are correct and you act like that and when Mr Bozovic speaks and Miss Jerkov speaks, and when one of your other MPs speaks, when you show that you have the same arches for everyone, then I will listen to you. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: He insults us. ) Mr Markovic, allow us to concentrate on the presentations of MPs. I beg you, this is what you will get from me only once you let one MP finish without you throwing it away. Whatever you want, I will give you, if you pledge to listen to what the People's Messengers say in this room, that you will not throw away, that you will not interfere with whatever you want, here is my promise, and I will give it to you. Here you go. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46079	If you ask me what I'd like, I'd ask for your resignation. I'm advertising Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear to all of us in this room that those who follow the National Assembly, that the Messenger Babic spoke as if he were speaking in his living room, so beyond the agenda, what had occurred to him. At no point did you take it as appropriate to interrupt him, take away his word or give him a warning about how you spoke to the MPs of the opposition. On the other hand, there is no need to ignore the fact from which Mr. Babic spoke and the fact that, if he had been, he was in some monastery, he was entwined, he wouldn't be sharing here... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46080	Mr. Veselinović, you can get here, we have a rule today to step away from the agenda. So, as Mr Bozovic, Jerkov and the others say, no one respects the topic of the agenda today. But if he starts to insult himself like you do now, to insult your colleagues in the most cruel way, you're destroying the dignity of the National Assembly, I can't let that happen. But it's your manners. You've already shown that it's your manners and your home education and I can't change that. You have shown the citizens of Serbia how you are and how you insult your colleagues. That's right, Miss Nado Lazic. I think so, you might think differently, but you've also shown how you think. (Alexander Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, you have to wait. We have to get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46081	I thank the chairman. Jovan Markovic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46082	The Rules of Procedure have an advantage, Mr. Markovic. Learn the Rules of Procedure at last.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46083	May I, Mr. Chairman? I'm advertising Article 107. - dignity, but I believe that the abused member of 103 is by the previous speaker and I have one suggestion for you, Mr. Becic. When reminding Mr Markovic, please point out that it is Jovan Markovic of the DS since we have the same last name. When it comes to a member of 107 who was a little earlier infraction with the mention, that is, by making some insults at the expense of Mr Babic by an MP who was not entitled to come to this assembly for ten days. So, ten days does not participate in the work of this Assembly, does not defend its amendments, and now he has come and found it appropriate to resent something to Mr Babic in this without any argument violating the Rules of Procedure, infringing Article 103 and making only insults to Mr Babic's account. I'm talking about a monastery. Okay, some will go to the monastery, but most of you will go to jail, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46084	Mr. Markovic, please. I think this has now exceeded all limits, the conduct of MPs in the great Hall of the National Assembly. Either we go back to the agenda or I have to take a break. Replica, Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46085	After this seven-minute presentation of Mr Babic, I have only one question – why is this proposal for a 30-year law 30 % of land in each municipality given under vague conditions to selected investors? All we want to hear is that and all we ask is that and all the citizens want to hear is that. When it comes to privatisation, we said – talk to Mr. Sinisha Malom, he led the privatisation of agricultural land. Today he is the mayor of Belgrade, a senior SNS official. When it comes to contracts with questionable businessmen, here is the signatories of Belgrade's Privatisation Agency, Vladimir Garic, the senior SNS official. When it comes to selling the country for 300 euros per hectare, here is Marijan Risticevic, a senior official, perhaps not your party, I don't know, a member of your parliamentary group, I really don't care what party he's in. When it comes to the division of state agricultural land to foreigners, there's Mr. Vukic giving you Arab land from privatisations that DS broke up when she came to power, made plus of 15 green companies and you give it to the partners of the UAE. So, Mr. Babie, all those questions you have for us, ask people in your own party. You arrested people on weekends who spoke against this, who spoke openly against this. There is no mention of how many of these charges have been brought down the same thing with agricultural land, the same thing you are now talking about, but the only thing you need to tell us – which is why this law gives 30% of the agricultural land in each municipality for a period of 30 years to your friends?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46086	Now the replica has Dr Pavicevic, so Mr. Markovic, and then Mr. Babic is on display and we close the circle of replicas. (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. There's a order. The lines were made before you called Mr. Risticevic. So there's some order, and that closes the circle of replicas, and I'm not gonna let it go off topic anymore. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46087	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three remarks about the dilemmas that Mr. Zoran Babic, who commented on and the actions of the New Party, us NS individuals and especially the president of NS Mr. Zivkovic, made in his speech. I consider it my obligation to say that when Mr Babic says here that the opposition should answer questions that it is necessary to record that in a democratic state the government always answers questions. The opposition can answer questions, can comment, can suggest, but officials have an obligation to answer questions respected gentlemen. The second note, when Mr. Babic says – when Mr. Zivkovic will answer questions about the functioning of "The Houses of Wines Zivkovic", works with vineyards etc., Mr. Zivkovic has repeatedly answered all the questions concerning the job over the past few years. Dear gentlemen, everyone, I think, is more clear that Mr. Zivkovic is clean about this business from a legal and moral point of view. The third note, gentlemen, on Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's approach to politics, I think he is a very good witness and what people he has surrounded himself with in the NS. In the NS is located, supported by Mr. Zivkovic, Vesna Rakic Vednelic, a congratulatory scientist and researcher, top authority in legal science, respected gentlemen. There is Mrs. Aleksandra Kristic, a committeewoman in the City Assembly, a professor in high school, respected gentlemen, there is Mr. Marin Kresic, president of our Urbanism Council whose large number of amendments and accepted here, among other things, respected gentlemen, and amendment to this second bill of law we are discussing today. That's three notes I wanted to say in response to Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46088	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is Mr Jovan Markovic, a replica of Mr Babic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46089	You didn't understand me, Mr. Chairman, I wanted to report to the Rules of Procedure and point to a breach of Article 107...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46090	Mr. Markovic, you were looking for a replica and you got a replica. I'm asking you to take advantage of me, so we don't go through with the Rules of Procedure anymore, I won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46091	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46092	So I'm going to punish anyone who shows up in the Rules of Procedure and step away from the agenda. Here, I promise you that now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46093	I just wanted to, but now I don't know how I'm going to be punished, whether to use this as my Rules of Procedure or as a replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46094	You have the right to a replica, two minutes, and I'm asking you to use it, so it doesn't happen again that you didn't have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46095	I think with your attitude and attitude, first of all towards me personally, and according to the opposition's committees, you're giving the wind in your back and you're not even aware that your behaviour towards us is causing such statements as Mr. Babic, who you say you haven't heard about, when he says about me and Mr. Balša Bozovic that we're aerodynamic, that we're air-polluted and I don't know what else he throws. I can't not react to such things. Then Mr. Markovic, who threatens us here in prison for opening the question of Article 8 of this law, continues the question of the rights of the people who have so far used agricultural land to continue to use it under certain conditions. I don't know if this is a replica, whether it's by the Rules of Procedure, but somehow respond to these statements where they're just trying to send us a message -- either keep quiet or you'll be arrested tomorrow. If you don't understand it from that place, then we have nothing to talk about. What law do we have to talk about if we are being respected here that we cannot talk about the amendments that we have submitted to this law? If you don't hear that we're being threatened with jail here because we point to certain problems and we express our position, if that's the problem, then it's really your problem, the whole assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46096	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. Serbia's public can also hear that I reacted when it was said by Markovic, that at that moment I took away his word. It can also hear Serbia's public saying that you throw and harass speaking MPs all the time, do not allow the debate to be conducted in the National Assembly. All afternoon and all morning, I was just warning you about the pitch, Mr. Markovic. That's what the public of Serbia knows. You know something else, like you don't have the right to replicate to me as chairman, and you just replicated. You received a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure, and you used it to replicate me. I don't want to talk to you any more in any way and lead the controversy. There are a large number of MPs in this room who want to talk about this subject, and now, here we are, half an hour talking about something that is not a subject and I assure myself with you what your right and duty is as a MP and how you should respect the Rules of Procedure. You don't do that. I'm going to think it's not worth being convinced of, and I'm just going to ignore you, because there's no other way. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica to the exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46097	Here, I would add two more to this truly fascinating list of members of the New Party, of all three members, who could talk about honesty, good business relations, Mr. Zivkovic's correctness. Well, I would add that list and the signatories to the grant agreement and I would add Dr. Slobodan Milosavljevic. Uh, he's not here right now, he can't give answers right now. So I would add to the group the signatories of the solution that adopts the request "Vinarija Zivkovic", and that is Dobrivoje Sudjum. Uh, but they're busy right now. You know, there are a lot of such people here who are currently busy, and they can't exactly talk about correctness in the "Vinarija Zivkovic" business. But, well, that's what some other authorities of this country are going to say. True, it is not a problem for the government and the government of the Republic of Serbia to answer questions, but let's not confuse the thesis. What I asked is, when are you going to answer for all the bad things you did when you were in power? It's one thing to answer questions, and the other to answer for all that devastation, destruction, destruction, robbery, criminal privatisation and all that other stuff. If I hadn't been in this room today, I might not have known that the SNS was responsible for the situation in the Clinical Centre of Serbia and spent billions, and now we see some medical equipment that can't even get inside the Clinical Centre of Serbia, let alone get patients to that equipment. Well, that's what the daily press says. You take your hand off for free.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46098	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46099	Who's responsible for this? Perhaps the Serbian Progressive Party?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46100	Thank you, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46101	One more sentence. Perhaps the Serbian Progressive Party is responsible for Hetherland? Perhaps the Serbian Progressive Party is responsible for Tesla Bank, for "The Development Bank of Serbia"... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46102	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: By morning I could talk about what you want to transfer, you want to transfer the responsibility to another person, but you have to answer for this. ) The word has a folk MP Marijan Rističević, a replica and thus we close the circle of replicas and return to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague has placed me in the ranks of their greats. Their greats are: the financial president of the former regime's party in society with the former regime's party president, under the hierarchy, was later succeeded by my fellow farmer, under the hierarchy was Mr. Vlahovic, under him was the director of the Agency, Mr. Cvetkovic Mirko, third prime minister of the former regime. Then there was a clerk named Sinisha Mali, but he stayed from the front, and they went from the back. And if Mali did something during the rule of the party of the former regime, you're responsible for it, not me, not us. You're the one who came from the clerk. You also said that I sold "Agrounia" to your financial director of the Democratic Party, because I was in front of a local self-government member of the tender commission who voted against because my price was less than 300 euros per hectare. I guess the property is being sold by the ones who vote yes, not the ones who vote against. Then your colleague in the party where you used to be, who has a 44-40 thousand-euro guitar, which costs more than my tractors, says that I voted against that proof that I recruited your party's financial director, because just because I was against it, he claims that I was looking for a racket. Let's finally make a deal, and you've been to both parties, what I've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46104	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46105	I realize they're short feet in a lie, but language is long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46106	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. (Balsa Bozovic, from place: Replica) I don't think you're correct now. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: He mentioned Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Just listen to me one sentence. We made a deal. Three MPs spoke, Mr Bozovic, from your party on the line, you said everything you wanted to say and say and I let it happen. On this side, two MPs spoke, and I also didn't go into what they said. I wouldn't just allow insults, but I didn't get into what they said. You now think it's wrong or correct. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure! I don't want to abuse. I'm asking you to finish this, like we said, and continue on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46107	Thank you, Mr. Becic. So, the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure, not in my intention to abuse it, but in my intention to draw your attention to the dignity of this home, because a short-time speaker tried to criminalise his story by late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. That's what you have to warn him about... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46108	Please, I won't allow it. In particular, I will not allow you to use the name of the murdered prime minister in each other's bickering. I don't think that's right, Mr. Bozovic, and please let's get back to the agenda. The amendment, with corrections, was submitted in the same text by MP Marijan Risticevic and joint MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Femont, Zoltan Peck and Anamarija Vicek. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Rističević, who proposes the amendment, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have slightly improved this amendment, precisely in the desire that small agricultural landowners, small farmers can finally rent something, we have regulated that the right in the first round of competition has natural persons registered in the Register of Agricultural Lands that are active to the status of at least three years, with a residence of at least three years for a simple reason not to be fictitiously registered for hire, for renting. This certainly the party of the former regime knows how they did it in Kikindi, etc. What families have made this business, which are 5,400 employees in Serbia? It is true that they have over 10,000 contracts, because one tenant can buy more parcels, participate in multiple codes and have multiple contracts, and the total number of tenants is 5,400 of which are 1,100 herdsmen to whom this law gives exceptional benefits. Also, we have defined who has the right to lease in the second round. But to see what it looked like during the rule of the party of the former regime? As the number 7 code was exceeded, the winery "Zivkovic" was registered by two bidders, one was "Agrounia", a.d. Indija was owned by the financial director of the party of the former regime, and the other was the winery "Zivkovic" owned by the former prime minister of the former regime and nothing would have been strange, the rent was 60 euros, it would have been no wonder that both legal entities were not represented by Branko Djuric, Branko Djuric. How would a single person compete with himself so much that he would like to answer your former regime's party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46110	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46111	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have offered an amendment to Article 8 of this Bill, we consider a better answer to the question of who should have the right to participate in a public competition to rent agricultural land in the state property in the first round. Mrs. Bogosavljević Boskovic suggested that this right may have a natural person or legal person who is registered in the register of agricultural holdings and is in an active state for at least three years. We were wondering on the basis of which criteria this three-year period was defined. We have offered the amendment, and we believe that agricultural holdings that have been in active status for 10 years, as well as newly opened holdings should be allowed to participate in the first round of public competition. Mrs Bogosavljevic told us that the amendment is not accepted because by eradicating this part of the three-year period, it would create the possibility of registering new land for the purpose of renting agricultural land in the state property, and then we wonder - well, what? It's the first round. This is Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, an example of not market access, not a market solution, because someone has imagined that someone should be prevented because they believe that registration of new land should be prevented only in order to rent agricultural land in the state property. And why is that? Why stop someone who thinks that, some kind of incentive. Maybe he sees some chance to compete, to be there in the first round, and since there's a first round then there's some other circles, so he's going to be seen in a mutual competition who's what kind of candidate. I really don't understand if the market and the functioning market economy is a criterion, why our amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46112	Thank you. Mr. Bradich, you want to follow this amendment. Here you go, Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46113	Thank you, Chairman. I absolutely support the amendment of the distinguished colleague, and since it is evident that the assembly majority does not want to accept any amendments, that your political decision and yours, in fact, general policy regarding agrarians is being seen in this law, in the day of voting as a member of the party Together for Serbia, and as well as colleagues from SDS and Green Serbia, we will vote against this law, because I think this law was made exclusively for Vojvodina, you have not intended this for villages under Sava and Danube, I do not know how this law would apply, let's say in Zaplanje. You're saying it's got to be agricultural land for three years. All right, there's only one problem in Zaplanje there's no young people all moved out, there's only nursing homes left. And who's going to rent there if a foreign investor doesn't come to the country if this law is applied, they won't have any right to compete, and that's why it makes sense that what counterpart Pavicevic is proposing is that people who want to deal with agriculture, who have capital, can come to rent, I don't know what someone would buy agricultural land and don't know what to do with it. Then what would you do with him? Well, normally something would do to make a profit. Another problem, which I see in this law seriously, is that it must be agricultural land on that catastrian municipality. Why? Why, I tell you, you know where Zaplanje is, it's from Nis to the Bulgarian border, I don't believe you were there, there are no people, empty villages. Who's gonna buy it? It's not Serbia's Vojvodina. It's okay, it needs to be developed there. People suggest quality solutions. You don't want, it's okay, it's your policy, it's important that citizens see what policy you have and how you imagine the development of agrarians. It's a legitimate right. I'm just asking my colleagues to concentrate, and we'll talk later. So, I suggest you accept the amendment of counterpart Pavicevic. I think he's good. I think it also gives opportunities to those who don't live where there's agricultural land, and they want to deal with it so they can come and engage. That's to say that as someone opens a factory in Svilajca, and it takes a thousand people to get a job and say yes, but they have to be born in Svilinca. Why? What's the problem? What's the problem that someone's gonna buy land to deal with I don't know, here's what I want to do when I retire and I can't do it in Zaplanje because it's a second cadastrian municipality, because I don't have agricultural land and I can't get into the lease, and I don't have the money to buy, I want to rent for 30 years, I want to be saved, I want to raise a loan. It's all right, but this law doesn't have the right. Why deny the right to people if they have an idea, if they want to do something, that they can do it. That's what politics is all about. That's what I said a little while ago, you have double arches. Don't, make a law for all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46114	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46115	Dear People's MP, you say a law is passed for Vojvodina, those of Vojvodina that you have made a law for central Serbia. It is the best evidence that we have had the mandate to make a law on agricultural land, changes and additions valid and that the same is true for all of Serbia and thus we have managed and we have forwarded this proposal to you. What's the problem? There's a question. The problem is that MPs often do not understand what is proposed in the law and one of the evidence of misunderstanding is that we have predicted exactly what you are looking for, it is that in the second round they can also register for the country from other municipalities in other Serbia. So in the first round, priority is given to local farmers to apply for available land in their catastrian municipality because they want it so and they think it should belong to them as a right. In the second round, anything that is not issued in the first round can also apply for the same land to the Niš and Sudulica environment, if it's about land somewhere in Vojvodina. I just want to simplify this story that way. As far as this three-year term is concerned, so please, it's about state agricultural land, we simply want to avoid the practice of sharing ownership or establishing a new ownership just to exercise the right to lease on state property. Three years is one deadline considered optimal. Please nice, let's see, qualify to get this resource in use. So three years is not a long time. As for ten years, registration started in 2004, and practically that deadline cannot meet any agricultural land in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46116	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46117	So we're really different in the way we think. That's a serious difference. It's a fundamental political difference. You don't let people who want to deal with agriculture and you have, say 30% that you need to rent, and you have problems, you don't give up, so it's buried, so from agricultural land, you don't activate through time. You want this law to activate it and employ people so they can deal with agriculture. For those living in the area of that agricultural land, you block the right to rent agricultural land, or you give the right only in the second round, if no one who is a dominant population, does not hire it, and then you give it to a business entity that can come from where you want it, that only a list of good wishes, a plan, a project that it brings, and that some commission that approves it can rent agricultural land. Not that it's discriminatory, but I can't explain it to you. I'll be back again, I don't know, come on, the Nish City housing fund, they can only buy Nislims in the first round, if not at the bidding, if no one calls, then you can come buy it. How? Where's the equality in front of the law? How's that? As you imagine, the respect of the Constitution in your way, that we are all equal, but someone is more equal than these others. What's the problem? What's the problem if I, like a dentist, want to rent agricultural land and invest money to make, my cares are less valuable, I don't know of German money? What's the problem with that? If I want to bid, so it means I'm not getting anything on a gift. I just want to get into a game to rent land. What's the problem? And you say, "No, it can't be in the first round, because you're not born in Gage's Han, so I'm not born well in Gage's Han, I want to make an orchard there, and I want to invest money, so someone has to bathe, so somebody has to pick it up, so someone's gonna pay off, so somebody's gonna buy it, so somebody's gonna take it. What's the problem? But only if there's no one from Gage Han and he's got to be at least three years here? But what's the problem? It's our country. You're saying it's common, it's a state country, I'm part of this country. Which is why someone has privileged status if they were born in that area unlike someone who was born about five kilometers away. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about how to think political, how to go about solving a problem. That's where we differ.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46118	Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46119	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have also proposed an amendment to Article 9 which we are changing the first position of Article 66 and adding one new position, and all, gentlemen of respect, in order to consolidate one market logic in our country and less arbitration. We propose to amend Article 66(1) and to read this - based on the decision to rent agricultural land in the state property, i.e. under the law of the lease and the right to pay more than one lease and supply of security funds for multi-annual contracts, the Ministry and the tenant conclude a contract on the lease of agricultural land in the state property. So, we say, the first contract and then the lease, gentlemen-respected, and then we propose a new position – after the conclusion of the contract on the lease of agricultural land in the state property, the tenant pays the rent, which was reached in public tendering. It seems to us that, the market logic that needs to be based on the rule of law requires the first signing of the contract, and after that to agree on the matter of the lease. Why? Because we have experience, as I understand it, based on our consultations with the people who have dealt with it, that sometimes contracts wait for months, sometimes for years, so what would be more natural than some actors who are interested in a job, to first arrange that entry into a contractual relationship, and then to pay this rent. It seems to me that by accepting this amendment, they would strengthen and confirm market reform orientation. Mrs Bogosavljević Boskovic, by not accepting our amendments, to this Article 9. to Article 8 and to Article 7. The government strengthens its anti-reformal, not market-based course, which rests on naked arbitration. We're always against it, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46120	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46121	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 9, we have suggested that it be wiped out just like all the other members of this law because we believe that the whole law is very bad and we are against it being put into effect. And this Article 9 is precisely because of the right of the championship and the right to a short lease we suggested that it be deleted in its first position, for one single reason only. As Minister of Agriculture, you have worked hard to explain to us, the MPs, how you think it is very important to take care of a small farmer from a narrow part of Serbia, so that he can easily get to the land that is not being processed today. We agree with that, but you don't want a single comma all the time to dedicate to Vojvodina's agricultural land, 450,000 acres where 150,000 is intended as the most fertile land of Tenis, where 150,000 is in the restitution and where 150,000 is intended for sale, in all the bad category of land that no one wants to take. So for 30 years, you're going to make it impossible for those people who live today from their work on that field to process the country they're processing today, which will put 70,000 families in a very bad situation, mostly financially. Their standard will recede, they will not be able to base their farm production on that field tomorrow. So, please understand why this law is finally passed. If you don't understand, please understand why they let you explain this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46122	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46123	I'll continue and I'll use a few more seconds of Parliament club time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46124	Mr. Bozovic, you don't have time at the Parliament Club. There's no more time. You've completely wasted your time. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46125	It's amazing the energy of those who want to continue to dissuade what we've done, spread the lies, intimidate our farmers, and that's why I have to say one more time. Everything the previous speaker said, it's absolutely not true. I am prepared to answer all questions, and I answered, not just today, but throughout the process of preparing this law. For all questions, I am prepared except for the unfavorable, except for what is the twisting of the thesis, except for the political struggle for the acquisition of political cheap points. They're absolutely false information. The question is manipulation, even on this data by some who are now being told. I just answered. It's not true that farmers will lose land. It is only true that we will improve agricultural production, that we will prevent corruption, that we will prevent usurpation, that we will help Serbia's agricultural land, and that is average, medium, small ownership, and of course we will also give the big ones a chance. Unfortunately, we have few, but they are both important and important to us, and this law is precisely in favour of Serbia and our farmers' agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46126	Thank you, Madam Minister. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the National Ambassador of the Master Alexander Jerkov. The word is Miss Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46127	Thank you, Mr. Becic. This is why we're against this law. On the basis of the decision to rent agricultural land to state property and after the payment of the rent, reached on a public tender and now you add to this bill – i.e. under the law of the lease championship and the right to double rent. The problem with this law is that some are subject to public competition and some are entitled to a lease. In the 2012 AP Vojvodina, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, there are 457,360 hectares of state agricultural land, of which 318,149 hectares are processed, and the rest of about 140,000 hectares is infertile, and is not subject to this law at all because no one is interested in taking the lease. I don't really know now, Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, which country do you think our farmers are renting if you give a third to the economic operators by the law of the charter championship? If a third is the subject of restitution, they will remain only these 140,000 hectares of infertile land that has not been leased. I don't know what kind of usurp you're talking about. First of all, usurpation is the problem of the Ministry of Agriculture that doesn't control it, which is probably controlled by agricultural inspectors. It's not a problem for either of these farmers, nor will they here without the right to borrow land, become farmers who usurp state land. No, there's gonna be those people who take state land to rent, half those families live on top of it, and you're gonna leave them out here without the land they can rent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46128	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46129	You're talking about the 2012 data, they're like this year, when it comes to state agricultural land, the same, about 450,000, you're talking about infertile land. I would remind you that in the Law on Agricultural Land, it is clearly defined what these types of agricultural land are. As for less fertile land in Vojvodina, about 12,000 hectares are reeds and ponds. Everything else is agricultural land that can be seized for purpose. This is a table that says this current state, half of the land is leased, half of the land in Vojvodina is not leased, not used, past the control of the Serbian state that is competent to manage and dispose of this land. And that's what we want to change. You keep repeating the same story, that someone's gonna lose the ground. It's not true, everyone will have a chance, those who want to work. It's not true that now we, some good or quality land, are going to give someone the right championship or the right thing to do. Plans bring local self-governments based on data they get from RGZ, that's their obligation. In their annual programme, they set out both by the law of the championship and by the right of far and beyond that land which is leased by public competition. You know it's the right to cross-infrastructure, and what goes to public competition, that's the part of the land that's intended for wartime production. Therefore, you are absolutely wrong and the incorrect data is that someone will lose land, on the contrary, we want this gray circle to go green, because it is inadmissible, Serbia is not so rich that it has this much unprocessed land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46130	The MPs Balša Bozovic, Milan Petrovic, Jovan Markovic and together Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović submitted to the 10th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46131	Thank you. Article 10 in the basic text of the law, which by adopting it is no longer like, I love the most of these laws that completely change members by entering the procedure, unfortunately, not well enough. Therefore, Article 10 says that after the words "cannot be alienated" relating to agricultural land, they add the words "unless under the conditions provided for by this law". We're against a member like this standing in the law. The colleagues who, fortunately, submitted the amendments that you adopted did not have such an amendment, so this will probably remain until Vote Day. It says here that the land can't be alienated otherwise, but under the conditions laid down by this law. What are the conditions? When will the alienation of the land occur? This is further discussed in Article 11. We are against the fact that agricultural land in state property can be alienated at all, as we are against leaving this famous right of championship that is not right and for a reason many have tried to bring it into legal law, so as we are opposed to not understanding the real consequences of this law. We can't alienate state land. Not until the process of restitution is completed, not until we finish the other legislative framework, and you say here, except under the conditions provided for by this law. When such sentences come into the law, then they go to discretionary powers, to agreements. I'm not going to say at all that you're ready for that, that you're responsible. You're up to it. It happens in routine and nature of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46132	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46133	Well, by the way, in an old member, the distribution of income was from publishing. The country was 30% in Serbia, 30% in Vojvodina, 40% in the municipality. So 60 total in the Republic and 40 local self-government, or the municipality, as we call it now. This is now the form presented, it represents that all of this will be recorded as the Republic of Serbia's income. However, we have found nowhere here a way and a commitment that the Republic will repay to local self-government the amount and not the size of the amount, the amount, or the environment. So, just that, deny me if I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46134	Thank you. The Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 10th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the circuit secretary AP Vojvodina, Branislav Bogorovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46135	Thank you. As it explains in the light of our amendments concerning the issue of selling state land, we could generally agree with such a concept, but there are several problems on this issue that make me feel that this institute should also be deleted from the law. So let's start with what's already been said more than once, and that's when, once again, you're turning down from the entire state land fund that's meant for legal persons, investors, whether it's a domestic or foreign legal person, it doesn't really matter, when you refuse the land that's supposed to be restitution, it remains less than half the total land fund, and it's mostly that land that hasn't been attractive to farmers who haven't bought it yet, but they simply haven't found any interest in it. So, the gross of this land will make these exactly mornings and pastures that are not to this extent suitable for processing, such as this land that has been leased and which is leased in Vojvodina at quite a large percentage, especially if we consider that there is only the possibility of local self-government entering the process of selling state land to domestic farmers. So, not the obligation, not a certain one of the minimum plots of land, so uncertainty to the domestic farmers whether this land will come to them. It is then put into question the sincere intention of the promoter to make something like this happen. I think the purpose of this law is, above all, to give 30% of the state land to 30 years of legal persons and that's what the Light motive is. Everything else in this law, and there are good things, are still some oblivion that covers this general idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46136	I thank you, Mr. Bognoski. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am sorry that more MPs are not present when we talk about agricultural land, since for us from Vojvodina, this is an extremely important topic, and I am sorry that the MPs, especially those from Vojvodina, were not there to hear farmers who had the opportunity to take their opinion, to the soul behind the National Assembly, not in front of the National Assembly, because there was a stage for the performance of Lepna Brena and Steven Sigal, but for those who do not know, they were there in some number behind the National Assembly. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: In what number? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46138	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't throw it away. Go on, Mr. Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46139	We believe that state agricultural land is an extremely important resource and we believe that it should not be alienated and sold. We proposed in earlier discussions that state agricultural land be used in a way that, for example, organizes itself into a fund that could be collated through securities of value, as it is done everywhere in the world, the Republic of Serbia has made funds worth more than billions of euros, so that the entire fund would be collateralised with government bonds and that was one of the ideas. Just to clean up the Danube-Tisa-Dunav Canal, you need about a billion euros and not to talk about any other investments in agriculture right now. We have a channel system that is the largest in Europe and the most devastated in Europe. State land will not be produced. As the old English proverb says – buy land, it is no longer manufactured. If all successful businessmen in this country know this, I don't know why the Republic of Serbia is denying such resources. I'm also joining the Regional Secretariat's assessment that we believe that state land should not be sold. Farmers, what they will get when these best 30% are released, will be below satisfactory and I don't think small farmers will benefit from it, and the state of Serbia will only have damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46140	Thank you. Madam Minister, you'd better listen to all the MPs, then answer your word. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46141	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I have a few things to answer. First of all, as far as this famous protest is concerned, there are gathered gentlemen from the former regime in Serbia and gentlemen from the current regime in Vojvodina, brother to brother one hundred, one hundred fifty people. The farmers became Bojan Pajtic, Nenad Canak, Saša Radulovic, province MPs, province secretaries, etc. overnight. These people who really do agriculture, God forbid there was one fifty, and they were brought here, too, probably because they were deceived by your false information that someone was supposed to take away their land. But it was all seen by the citizens of Serbia. There's no need for us to do this in particular. This protest that Bojan Pajtic announced – there are 17 associations of farmers coming, we block Belgrade with tractors, we ask Tomislav Nikolic not to sign the law, we will stop the law, etc. There was a handful of current circuit officials, some former ministers, some current MPs, province MPs, and more or less the famous rally ended. But now I'd like to ask one other question. Madam Minister, if I understand the former regime's MPs well and this current regime in Vojvodina for another month, they are now against it and are leading the maltaneous work of anti-legal persons. Now suddenly legal persons are the enemy of the number one state, they should be abolished, they should not be given any rights, when it comes to renting, so renting, not selling, not alienating, renting agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia. I ask the same question – then how is it possible that at the level of the AP Vojvodina, here, I ask the provincial secretary, legal persons there are not a problem, even legal persons there must and are the only ones empowered to receive funds from the circuit funds. Here, for example, on the basis of a public competition of 17 March 2011, the Regional Skeretarium for Science and Technological Development, then the provincial secretary was the former member of Ante Markovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoslav Petrovic, concluded a contract with a legal person and it was one of the conditions of the competition, d.o.o. Maranta Sombor, Bukovac 133, PIB and this, home number and that, the total value of the investment is 50 million, beware, 50,530,000 dinars, for co-financing of the plant for the production of funeral equipment in Sombor, 50 million dinars for the financing of the plant for the production of funeral equipment in Sombor. Why didn't you put in a public competition so that a face could get 50 million dinars? What modern technology is used in the production of coffins? So, obviously it's about money laundering. It's 2011. In 2012, they needed an election, a layman was clear what it was about, half a drink, half a stick. This man, or owner of this company, probably half the money had to return the same Dragoslav Petrovic, or DS, to the election campaign. I don't know what space technology is used in the production of coffins. Furthermore, how you don't mind legal faces, for example. When you give, also in this public competition since 17 March 2011, a contract has been concluded between the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development, again Dragoslav Petrovic and d.o.o. The winery, so come on now, is a famous musician and singer, so let's not mention his name. There is a total investment value of 87,577,763,80 dinars. That's how much it costs to get a new line for wine production and, imagine, a line for filling the bottle with a sterilizer and a line for labeling the bottle Enos star due. In this respect, the company has yet to be established because Article 6 says – the beneficiary of the funds undertakes to invest his share of the capital in the contract subject to precision in Article 1 of this contract in the amount of 67,577,000 dinars, etc. It's actually this money. So he's not investing his capital. He says he's investing his capital, which is actually money from the Vojvodina budget, which is 77% of the total investment completes the drive, be careful, completes the drive. Listen, Mrs. Komic, a little bit, to complete the drive, and here it is said - a co-financing contract is being concluded. Well, I guess the drive's already been built. He, in fact, gentlemen, is gone, he has yet to be made. What's the deadline? Here, it says in this conclusion of yours. It says - must be made by 30 September 2011. You've entered into fictional contracts, no drive, no winery, no wine, no bottle, nothing, just give money. Now you didn't have a problem with those legal faces. Why? Well, you could have washed the money most easily over the legal face, and the legal faces weren't so much a pain in the eyes but that you gave 80 million dinars to some physical person. Now suddenly the war on legal persons, how can legal persons come to rent agricultural land? So, tell me, one country in the EU that they can't come to? Tell me which world market can we agriculturally go out to if the land is leased by only individual agricultural producers? After all, a question which none of us in the SNS received an answer – how come 2001, 2002, 2003, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 did not bother you with all those tycoons from abroad, primarily from Croatia, which you sold to both agricultural combinations, and state agricultural land and enlisted those foreign companies as owners of land primarily in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Where did you care about the little peasant then? Why didn't you block the Serbian Parliament then? Why didn't you block the AP Vojvodina Assembly then? Where were your associations of small farmers then? Those of you who sold everything have nothing left to sell. So, Madam Minister, my well-intentioned advice is to you, I don't know if these MPs of the current DS, former leader and president of the DS, but I think he was a much more capable politician than these current Milan Grol, was in 1945 in the then Constitutional Assembly of the FNRJ – I don't know what you communists keep reporting for a word and you keep talking, so it's enough once to answer for a word, once you say something, and you don't have to answer for a word anymore, because you're always talking about the same thing. So do you from the Democratic Party. You've caught something that doesn't say anywhere in the law that the government is supposed to sell agricultural land to foreigners. It doesn't say that anywhere in the law for days, weeks and months we've been listening to the same thing. Come on, think of at least one more lie, next to this one you've already invented, so that at least this congregation work is a little more interesting to us than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46142	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. You have the right to a replica. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Replication to Mr. Martinovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46143	Thank you, Mr. Becic. The same request as Mr Babic just before, after eight minutes of speech by Aleksandar Martinovic, only one question – and why do you, without any public criteria, give 30% of the country in each municipality to 30 years of selected businessmen? These investigations you're conducting, these combinations you're talking about, please, Vladimir Galic, your party's official, Sinisa Mali, your party's official, don't ask anyone from the Democratic Party for that. The Serbian Progressive Party has more to do with the privatisation process, the process of selling combinations, the process of selling agricultural land than anyone from the Democratic Party today, than any of the Democratic Party's MPs, than anyone who runs the Democratic Party, who participates in the work of the Democratic Party's leading bodies. So, all you've got, you're not an opposition MP, you're an MP for the ruling party, there's Nebojsa Stefanovic, there's all your state authorities... I just don't know how now in all these arrests, all alive arrested, Pajtic wasn't arrested when the greatest criminal there was, according to you? So don't, please, act like one. You know, Mr. Martinovic, what happens to you every time you say he's a criminal. So don't, pick your words a little bit, keep your mouth shut about what you're saying, but before you say anything, say what this law says about 30 years of land being given in every duchy municipality without competition, without public competition for selected businessmen, friends of the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46144	Thank you. (Branislav Bogoroski, from town: Replica. Mr. Bogorski, you can get the right to a replica. It is not at all a rule for government representatives to receive or representatives of the Parliament of the AP Duke's replica. We, as chairman, can go out to meet you, if in some way you're by someone who's been discussing offended, hurt, or you've been pleaded negatively for in some way. That wasn't in this case. I can, if you think it's important, give you a replica. I'll give it to you, but just to handle it in the future. The word is made by the circuit secretary Branislav Bogaroski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46145	That's a direct question. I think that question deserves an answer. In addition to my deepest concentration and attempts to understand the link between the drive of new technologies and the granting of state agricultural land for 30 years, I really can't see it. What I don't think you get right is that nobody has a problem with legal faces. The problem is that natural persons, registered agricultural holdings, which were designated as the basis for the development of Serbia's agriculture under the adopted 2014 strategy, are excluded from the possibility of auctioning for the highest quality land, as they could so far. So that's the essence of the problem that the District Assembly sees that we're here today for debate and for whom we have submitted and defend our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46146	This is exactly the problem I was talking about. You are now not defending the amendment you have submitted, but you are politically replicating with the MPs, which should not be happening. You'll understand why I can't give you the right to a replica. Does anyone else feel that they have the right to replication or the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. You're right, because you mentioned Mr. Martinovic. Is there anyone else in that previous circle? No, I don't. You're still right, and that closes the circle of replicas. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46147	I thank you, Mr. Becic. Here, I'll try in these two minutes to answer, first of all, Miss...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46148	Please don't cause a new replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46149	I'm just gonna say I know what's waiting for me, probably 56 lawsuits by Bojan Pitiæ against me, not a problem. As for Mr. District Secretary and that he allegedly does not understand what the lease of agricultural land has to do with new technologies, here is how you read the 2011 AP Vojvodina public competition – a public competition for co-financing of plants, watch the drive, for the application of new technologies in the AP Vojvodina. So by definition, here the only participants in the competition can be legal faces. Which an individual, who can't use new technology, can get a certain amount of resources based on that. No, you've pre-exclusived the individuals and predicted that the funds in pretty large amounts can be obtained exclusively by legal persons who are allegedly the owners of some plants. I showed you from that contract that you gave almost 90 million dinars to a company that has no winery at all, which is yet to be made by 30 September 2011 and which is to invest 67 million dinars of 87, which is 77% of the capital in the construction of the wine production plant. So, in practice, there's nothing in the field. There's something that's registered to the APR, and that's all. There's no winery. You give that nonexistent winery almost 90 million dinars. That's why I asked you -- how is it that when you're sharing money from rural funds, they have to be legal persons, for some new technologies, such as coffins, and when it comes to agricultural land, then your legal faces bother you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46150	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. We're going back to the agenda. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Mrs. Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46151	Thank you. I would ask one more question, more questions to think about, than I would like to answer -- why is the Regional Secretariat against the interest of agricultural holdings, why is it against the adopted Agriculture and Rural Development Strategy? That's why I'm saying it. For the sale of state agricultural land to agricultural holdings, agricultural holdings are just interested. Here are the signatures, stamps, four associations of farmers, including the Association of Farmers, Miroslav Kiša, Club 105 plus, the Independent Association of Farmers of Serbia, the Alliance of Agricultural Associations of Serbia. Nicely delivered request to the task force that was preparing the law. They say, under two, "Emergency to sell 200,000 hectares of farmland in the state property of registered agricultural holdings whose holders are natural persons in active status for a minimum of three years; limit the purchase to a maximum of 20 hectares in the first round, with a ban on alienation of property for 10 years." Here you go, Mr. Secretary. As far as this law is concerned, I believe that in agriculture, we farmers should be extremely satisfied with the fact that we will be able to help small and medium-sized agricultural land, because it is the goal of this strategy to make more efficient use of agricultural land, to increase ownership, to gather agricultural land. Why? In order to achieve our agricultural goals over the next ten years, and our goal is to increase production through productivity, is to strengthen the economic strength of our agricultural producer and to increase its competitiveness.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46152	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Stojsic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the sale of agricultural land in law, it is proposed that this land that remains, no, I'm not talking about selling that it can be paid for for five years. We also think that five years is absolutely not enough, but that the deadline must be extended if such a thing is already done. It's not good that we call farmers a handful that's gathered and under someone's political influence, because I think they're people in a very difficult situation. Not only have they run out of subsidies, the price of meat is extremely bad, I come from Srema and there you can ask cattlemen what the price of pigs is and what they think of it, etc., etc. In Serbia, meat imports from abroad that are fed genetically modified food and are twice as cheap and there are a number of problems in our agrarian, so we don't see where our farmers will be able to raise funds and buy that state agricultural land that we're talking about here. Of course, people from, or farmers from Western Europe have access to European funds and are far more productive, more competitive, etc., and I think that if they don't meet at least some of the requirements to define precise conditions that will limit the possibility that foreigners here can acquire agricultural land that we will have a big problem, especially now that one of the rights to buy will be the so-called so-called. a long-term lease to be introduced first, and later something from that country will be sold.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46154	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46155	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, honored guests from the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, proposeors of the amendment to Article 10 have made it simple to demand that no state land is sold, or Article 10 in the current law, that agricultural land cannot be alienated. This bill adds one sentence to the fact that it remains that it cannot be alienated, but that under certain conditions set out in this law it may be possible. What's this about? I've made myself very clear before. I don't think the amendment should be accepted, on the contrary, rejected, regardless of the different reasons why they feel that agricultural land should not be alienated. I believe this proposed law has three high values of lack. Starting from the fact that agricultural land is good for the general interest of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, natural wealth, the natural resource itself means a special type of protection. The nature of the law clearly states – it can be used by renting it through more forms than those parts of leases where big investors can compete, because it is important for Serbia to develop this processing industry in which it can invest capital, of which not only will investors but also municipalities and people's employment. There is no more important job than hiring a man today in Serbia. They can rent it small, medium, and even where it's not used for free for three years. That's the first value. The second value of this law is precisely that for the first time the sale of state land, i.e. the ownership of the country to small agricultural producers, is envisaged under very precise conditions. This is exactly what it is about when it is required not to accept, or to delete Article 10, that small farmers are not allowed to buy that land, that they can aggregate their property, that they can increase revenues, that they can be more competitive. So we're talking about family agricultural holdings. By adopting this amendment, I would not be able to adopt the next five members, i.e. through Article 11, 72a, b, v, g, d, and he is the essential key to this law. To repeat, the natural person can buy, the citizens of Serbia, the one who has registered an active agricultural household, the one who lives in the territory of that municipality, for three years, and now I see that the SVM amendment has been accepted to increase to five, bravo, I totally agree. So it's about that agricultural land that's given a chance, that if it doesn't own up to 30 acres that it can buy up to 20 hectares of state land. There seems to be an amendment that limits the area to 40 acres. What's wrong with that? What's not good for small farmers who, apparently, want to be encouraged by this law to help them increase their property, increase their income, be more competitive. I repeat, it is a natural person, a Serbian citizen. It has nothing to do with selling land to foreigners, and ultimately this law regulates if we don't find one day, and I'm sure we'll find a way out of that famous SAA, this law won't be asked what it's all about. Therefore, if the amendment were to be adopted, this sale would be disabled. However, there is another condition that may also be a cause of interference. He can't buy one who hasn't settled his obligations to the state, and that's where I'm going to go to the third value of this law, renting and selling to small farmers. It is very clear that state agricultural land cannot be used, cannot be usurped, cannot be illegally, cannot be arched, etc. So, for all these reasons, I believe that an amendment to Article 10 should be rejected. The bill, and we will make it possible to see that in an even more precise, even better way, under even more precise conditions, small farmers are able to sell land to citizens of our country and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46156	Mr. Miletic, your parliamentary group has no more time, there is little time used by the head and deputy head of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46157	Mr Petronijevic was perfectly clear and precise, it is legitimately the right of the province's Assembly to propose amendments to this extremely important and significant legislative proposal, and our legitimate right as a parliamentary club is to declare our position. Our position is also very clear and precise, we will not accept this amendment, because we believe that this amendment devises and prevents the realisation of those essential objectives that want to be achieved through the adoption of this legislative proposal. So, in our opinion, the essence of this legislative proposal and the fundamental goal that we want to achieve is precisely to introduce order in land policy. That land owned by a state, state property, which is good for all citizens of Serbia, should be used in accordance with the interests of citizens, above all, in line with the interests of our Serbian farmers. So, to have one better and fairer use of agricultural land, and that is the interest of small farmers, and on the other hand, the essential goal that is to be achieved, we have talked about it many times and I will repeat it again, so it is to finally put an end to and prevent the usurpation of agricultural land in Serbia. The practice of the previous period of time, poor practice from the previous time period, states that both more celery and economical and more rational use of agricultural land is necessary. And it must no longer be allowed to use land that is state property in an irresponsible way and that individuals benefit from it. If we say that this law should answer a key question -- who usurps today's agricultural land in Serbia, and who uses legally, we don't see why this law would be corrupt, so it's anti-corruption if we get an answer to the key and the essential question. Did you talk to the agricultural producers? Did you talk to the association? Say it again. What is the number of suggestions, the proposal on a percentage view, which was adopted and respected when it comes to this system law? There's talk of an association of farmers that appeared in front of parliament. You know how, we don't discuss important issues on the street, as a parliamentary club on important issues we talk about in the Republic Parliament, as you have discussed the important law, forming this draft, proposing a draft, in public debates. If someone had spoken to us, we would have accepted that call and discussed this system law and seen what suggestions and suggestions were. Now, allow me, we suspect what it is was the ultimate goal of such famous protests. So, the situation in agriculture is bad and it requires urgent and rapid solutions and we talked about it. This law encourages and attracts investments and investments are important. It should allow for faster and better development. They should guarantee that final lease to small farmers. No one wants to give anyone anything and no one favors anyone. Everything will be done precisely and clearly by the RS government regulations. When it comes to selling land, the land is not sold to foreigners. No provision of this law defines it. Here is the word, for the first time in history, I think, Serbia, is being sold the country and offered to buy countries to small agricultural producers with a clear goal of strengthening and strengthening small agricultural producers. That's something, I repeat, which is agreed with associations, correct me if I'm wrong, which is agreed with farmers and associations. It is proposed that this article be deleted, and we have proposed amendments that have been accepted and we are pleased and we will talk about it in the course of the debate, and we have proposed amendments that allow small farmers to buy state-owned agricultural land for 10 years instead of five years, as originally proposed by this legislative proposal and we will not allow the alienation of agricultural land in a time period of 15 years to prevent abuses. So we are doing everything we can to get a quality legal framework, which is the interest of Serbian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46158	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Milan Petrovic, with a correction, together with Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragoljub Micunović, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović submitted. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46159	Article 11. We do not actually delete a member, but we support a solution that is currently current, because if we allow this member to sell agricultural land, we can get into a situation where large producers, as they call them "tycoons" through their exhibits, come up with cheap land that will sell at multiple prices to foreign producers that have large subsidies from their countries. This can negatively reflect the competitiveness of domestic producers who are not ready for such an unfair match on their market, since they do not have the same level of subsidies. It can lead to the liquidation of small and medium-sized agricultural holdings that will not be able to withstand this type of pressure, so they will be in a position to sell the country to these foreigners. After the implementation of the SAA, this very member, this very law, can enable domestic or foreign manipulations to trade in agricultural land, handling exclusively profits. That's why we think the previous solution is more acceptable and we're looking at these changes and additions to erase this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46160	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46161	Thank you. Our amendment is the consequence of the amendment to Article 10, which is that it is deleted because we didn't consider this solution good enough and in the meantime the amendment colleagues who have completely changed, 72a and 72b and deadlines and all, so now that I have an amendment to something that doesn't look like that when the amendment is submitted. But whatever. What remains is one of the reasons why we have submitted an amendment to sell only land that is not subject to state and strategic objectives in agriculture. That is deleted with this amendment. Restitution has been introduced. The percentage of the municipality was introduced. A reduction of deadlines has been introduced. He said 20 years at 10, it's not five, it's 10. So, as I said about two amendments, or three that I am trying to explain this law now with the amendments accepted is not even like the basic proposal, and that is good and colleagues who have submitted the amendments and you who have accepted it. What's not good that we're missing is the time to discuss the current solutions. That's a little bit of a problem. We are wasting time on remarks that DS MPs, as it was invented, do not have the right to submit amendments, nor to discuss and not to understand how we could possibly have the idea that we could because we supported the government by 2012, but on the contrary, I have a great understanding for people who by 2008 until 2012, think that great Serbia is the only solution for us, and then realize that it is not but a European Serbia solution for us and become Eurofanatics. So, I have an understanding for the debate of this kind, but I am very sorry about the co-worker, for a lot of the work that the minister has done and for what the law now looks like with the amendments adopted, which we are not going to inform the citizens about in this debate. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46162	Time. Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46163	Can you tell me how much time I have from an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46164	Seven minutes. I'm sorry, eight minutes and 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46165	This is one of the amendments, I think, as the minister says, it's not nice what was said earlier, it's not a problem in selling agricultural land to farmers. The problem is that there is no land that they should buy because out of these 450 thousand hectares one third will go to legal persons in that process that we have already criticised so much that it is no longer worth talking about, one third is the subject of restitution and one third that will remain agricultural land that they do not even want to buy. That's because there's no agricultural land they could buy. Secondly, here you are now, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, reading and giving Mr. Bogoroski a list of demands from agricultural producers where you say they insist on allowing them to buy agricultural land. That's below point two. What's request number one? Do you have the courage to read what the number one number of those farmers you are now inviting here is because because of that number one, and they say don't pay 30% in rent for 30 years, demand number two – let us buy a drop in water because they have nothing to buy, because you have one third and the best third, I don't think you'll be using that "Tenis" and I don't know who's going to take any agricultural land that needs to be used for purpose or I don't know what kind of expressions you've used. They will not take the swamp, but they will take the agricultural land of the first, second and third classes. One part will be, a large part will be the subject of restitution, and then to the agricultural producers what remains, so they can buy if they want to. Second of all, where did these people even get money to buy that agricultural land? You've extended your five-year term to ten years. This means that someone should make 20,000 euros a year to pay it off. What does he have to grow to earn 20,000 euros a year, please? I think they're all going to start growing it right now, provided you don't send them to jail if they start growing it, because I believe that some things are probably worth 20,000 euros in a year. If you know what you can grow to earn 20,000 euros in a year, tell them, I think they'll all start acting that way. So, first of all, there's no agricultural land they can buy. Second, they don't have the money for it. Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, in that circle of yours you showed, where one half is green, one is gray, and the green represents the agricultural land used, and the grey that is not used, how much of that land is in that gray half of the restitution? How much of this land is infertile land? Can you tell us that, and then tell us what kind of land you imagine these people are buying, if you give one third to your business partners, and they're the first ones to choose which land they're going to take, one third is the object of restitution, and one third is agricultural land that isn't fertile, it's not processed, etc.? So I'm saying, this is one of the examples where you might even have a good intention. I don't really think it's a good intention, I think it's a good measure, and it's a bad intention, because it's your intention to give those 30% every 30 years, and by the way, here, we'll let them buy it. Then when they think, here we will be able to buy, then it turns out that there is nothing to buy, because all that was good you have already divided to whom it should be divided. So when you read the farmer's requirements, read the number one request that says - don't give 30% of the land for 30 years. Because because of that requirement, a request one, a request two, let us buy it, it doesn't make sense. Because when you divide those 30%, they will have nothing to buy, because the land will be no more, or at least there will be no good land. There'll be land no one wants to buy. Why don't you offer the farmers first to buy, so what's left of you to share "Tenis", and then share it with other business partners? That might be a fair system. Although, it wouldn't be a fair system either, because you're still dividing, by us, the unknown criteria. But even if they did, they wouldn't have anything to buy. So neither is your intention good, and the measure is to show that they will be able to buy a country, and all under a bad law that serves exclusively to give 30% of the best land to your business partners for 30 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46166	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46167	You say, "Dear MPs, the country is gone." You know, and farmers don't know. Here, I will also read the first request of three requests submitted by associations, the largest associations, the most representative in Vojvodina, and some of them are now protesting. Their first request is – not to allow the sale and lease of state agricultural land to foreigners on any basis. Please find in the law that we suggested where it says that we sell or rent land to foreigners on any basis. We didn't know what they wanted with this, either, but we saw exactly what they wanted with these other two demands. I must say for the MPs and for our farmers, our success is to pass a law like this. Our success is to implement this law in practice. Our success is that our agricultural producer gets state land, buys it and buys it at war for up to ten years. They expected it, they asked us to, and we have to say, the government had also heard, the government had both a desire and the government came out to meet their demands and my demands. And imagine, up to 20% of the land in the state property, the government gives to agriculture. Well, please, is anyone here weird, so to speak, does anyone think it's bad, or is they going to say thank you to the government, thank you to the state who, in this way, wants to help agriculture? It's just one of the measures this government has taken for farmers, and I'd like to hear what the previous governments have done to help agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46168	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46169	Thank you. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, you know, this manner that some citizens should thank the government you probably took over from some other of your superiors. It's not nice to do that. It's just that there's still no need for you to say the same thing - which no one tells us all the honors, etc. They won't tell you all the honors, because you're hurting them with the laws you're offering here. So we haven't heard if these business partners are going to take the best land since they choose first, or if they choose first to take the worst land, then to the farmers what's left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46170	Ms. Jerkov, since Mr. Markovic is not here, who keeps mentioning when someone is not talking about the agenda, can you at least, for a few seconds, about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46171	I ask which country, according to the minister, farmers will be able to buy, or will they be able to buy what remains of them, since someone chooses before them, or will they be able to buy the land they want?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46172	Since I'm not informed, is that what your amendment says now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46173	I'm not an applicant for the amendment, and it concerns the way agricultural land is sold, which the paper was introduced in this law. The second is very problematic, it is indeed the discretionary right of local self-government to decide if they want to sell the country at all, when they want to sell the country, how many countries they want to sell and which country they want to sell. So the fact that they will be able to buy land really means only in the theory that they will be able to. First, the countries will not be because a third will go to some, a third will be the subject of restitution, and a third will remain and not all the country is good. Secondly, some local self-government can say that it will not sell agricultural land at all, or it can decide that it will only sell that agricultural land that is known to be the right to prevent buying, can only sell certain agricultural land. It can manipulate given those previous members with agricultural land, because they will be able to offer no agricultural land for two or three years, and then four years to offer zero dinars, etc. It's simple, we see as your alibi for passing a bad law and as an excuse for passing a bad law this measure, which may be a good one, but it's inconclusive. This can't be done. We're confident you're passing the law because of those 30% that will be given for 30 years, and even what is a good measure won't be possible to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46174	Miss Jerkov, time's up, the DS Group has no time left on any basis. Thank you. On the 11th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and together by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word has a representative of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, provincial secretary Branislav Bogorovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46175	Since the previous amendment was related to the same subject, I'm just going to continue with my exposure. Namely, the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia, in detail g) – a policy on the management of agricultural land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia, found that agricultural land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia cannot be alienated, but is used in procedures such as borrowing, giving for use and others. This is the strategy adopted in 2014 and I absolutely agree with that strategy. The new legislative solution is a major turn in a year ago of the declared policy. What's the problem with these solutions and what's already been said is that there's a maximum amount of land that can sell local self-government, but there's no minimum that needs to be sold. So it could happen that local self-government decides not to sell land at all or sell just a few plots. Or decide to sell everything he has in one of the Catastrian municipalities, in another Catastrian municipality, not to sell anything. When it connects to the conditions for the right of a purchase obstacle, you see that there is a mechanism to offer a specific plot on purpose for sale because at the beginning you know who is the buyer of that plot. Since we have submitted several amendments and it has been repeatedly found that we have made a contribution to improve the text of the law, allow, in this case, the ultimate case of the long-term lease to 30% we have our own opinion and we believe that the same thing as in the amendments that you have accepted whose solution it is, we are trying to influence the improvement of this law and to prevent its bad consequences. And as for the request of the Association of Farmers, you agree with request number two, I agree with request number one. The number one claim says - not a lease, but a request number two says - the sale of land. So anyone can choose what they'll agree to in relation to what the farmers are looking for, I think the first request is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46176	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46177	Dear representatives of the Secretariat, the Regional Secretariat or the secretaries, however, mentioned the strategy, yes, we wrote in the Strategy that our aim is to take up ownership, to increase agricultural holdings, to strengthen their strength economically and, of course, when we talk about strengthening the land's landlocks, it always comes from land policy. You say in the Strategy it says that land in state property cannot be alienated, it is simply one misunderstanding of the setting shown in the Strategy. Our setting was to set goals and to show within these objectives what is available. At that point, real state land couldn't be alienated by selling. We are now trying to help increase the property, to gather the land in this way. That is what we have received and achieved together with the associations, of course provided that MPs vote on this proposal. I think this is an extraordinary measure, an extraordinary opportunity. I would remind you that in our neighbourhood in Hungary, one such measure being implemented is extremely popular, extremely attractive, it is the national programme of the Hungarian government, the country of peasants, and that is what I think should be highlighted and highlighted here as well. But it's simple for our citizens, but we just have a number of people who are experts in all areas, for all the questions and who are always asking the same questions, they know that we can't keep answering these questions, because I just don't think it makes any sense. They always go back to whether you're going to 30 percent, whether you're going to be famous, whether you're going to show the tycoons, where you write. We've been showing documents all along, and you're making assumptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46178	Thank you. The 11th Amendment with corrections was filed by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46179	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who hasn't passed through agricultural cultures by sunbathing ceilings on the moon and other parts of the body, I have to tell you that the right championship won't take any of the best land, it's best already gone, sold. Three hundred thousand hectares of social, or state-owned land has been sold. Among the countries is 100,000 hectares of agricultural land belonging to cooperatives. The cooperative property was strangely privatized in 2012, and it was owned by united peasants, therefore, they could not divide but apparently that the tycoons had reached the country even though the cooperatives had acquired a freight road. I didn't get an answer, that someone against renting for 30 years with an investment plan, new employment, with 1,000 things that someone has to do, and with nothing to do by 2052 for 60 euros. The right of the championship cannot be achieved without 200 euros per hectare. It's the least possible price our cattlemen pay. But someone who issued it for 60 euros per 40 and a few years now asks questions even though the bill makes everything clear. Also, I have to say that the sale of agricultural land is exclusively intended for small agricultural holdings that are in active status for three years that have less than 30 hectares that are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which have a residence on the territory and catastrian municipalities and local self-government and only those who have no tycoons, only they can be buyers of agricultural land and pay it up to ten years by giving the benefit of the state that the land as the object of the purchase can be pawned, that they do not have to pawn their property, but that what is the subject of the purchase can be pawned and that they pay it back for ten years. I haven't heard of a hectare costing 20,000 euros in Vojvodina, now I hear for the first time, but I see that these prices have suddenly jumped, that someone who sold 300 thousand hectares for 50m euros, with an average price of 160 euros per hectare, now suddenly costs the same land at 20,000 euros. Therefore, the loss is not three billion euros, as I have calculated today, but according to the price list the lady mentioned, it is six billion. There's so much loss they've made for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46180	Thank you. On the 11th Amendment with the correction, the MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek together submitted. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46181	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, Secretary for Agriculture, the amendment that we have submitted to Article 11 and the amendments that fellow Members and representatives of the parliamentary groups have also submitted to this member, speaks of how important this member was and understood by the ministry to accept certain amendments to some extent, has corrected the solution given to this member. I wouldn't talk too much about our amendment for the reason we accept those solutions you've accepted. However, I'd just like to make a contribution to this debate that has passed into the survival domain, so we're all ready for quite certain, and if someone is watching, and I'm looking often, we're prepared to be able to endure all the tortures that are scheduled there. However, we do not understand why I am very disappointed because the problem is not small producers and the solutions you accept for small producers, the problem is not transparency for one third of the land. It will allow you to disagree, unfortunately, that it is transparent and that the fossils and explanations that we do not understand the members of the opposition, to say, we do not understand that it is all extremely good, those things that had to be solved by law will be resolved by a sublaw act that will bring the ministry or government. I wouldn't take any more time because we're all exhausted and I don't think it makes any sense because everything's going to go the way it's supposed to be, or it has to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46182	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The word is Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This article has defined among other things what the task of local self-government is in the process of selling agricultural land and, among other things, is to identify areas for the sale of agricultural land, to discuss, or publish, public calls for the collection of offers, to consider offers and to make decisions on the acceptance of tenders. Of course, all of that, with the mandatory consent of the D.O.S. I don't agree with the fact that all these local administration actions are to be done only with the consent of the ministry. I received an answer to my amendments, which predicted that in Section 2 and Section 5, the exact words that say that all these actions are done with the consent of the Ministry. In response, it is said that agricultural land in state property is managed and available by the Republic of Serbia, and I do not dispute it. However, I have a question for you why do the Ministry and Government have no confidence in the work of units of local self-government? I think the work of local self-government is just about preparing everything that's in the function of selling agricultural land. Parliament group Boris Tadic SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, are against such tutoring over local self-government units. We think that this is how it is done again, who knows which way, centralization, all with the reason that local self-governments are incapable of doing this job on their own, because the law also provides for the control of the legality of decisions of local self-government units, through the possibility of making complaints to the ministry. We also propose to delete the position of the 8th member, which is proposed that the terms and conditions of the market value be prescribed by the finance minister with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture Affairs. I think this is unnecessary, since in the previous view it is said that the tax administration for each local self-government determines the market value of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46184	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46185	Dear People's MPs, the questions you've asked are questions that have been settled by both the Constitution and the laws. So, according to the Constitution, the agricultural land in state property, the land owned by the Republic of Serbia, is managed and available by the state of Serbia through the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as local self-government is concerned, they are users, they are required under the Constitution and by law to bring and implement the annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. Here is an opportunity for local self-government to show its zeal, to respect the rules, to respect procedures and legal deadlines, but also to respect what the representatives of the opposition here today point out, and what they stress is necessary, and to attribute to us, that we have some ultimate intentions, when it comes to the land fund itself, which each local self-government has. So local self-government will be the one to determine in the annual programme the part planned for the right of the championship, and the part for the right to cross-border, and the part of the land that goes into public competition. They are the ones who are now on the move to meet the demands and agricultural holdings that would buy agricultural land in the state property, and the others who want to invest, and thus use the right of the championship. Therefore, no local self-government has been brought into a subordinate position, and by any chance, I am taking another chance to repeat, there will be nothing intransparent. The law is precise and clear laying down the rules, establishing the procedure for determining the work, which applies to the giving of part of the land relating to the right of the championship. It is clear that this part is in accordance with the Constitution. It's clear which steps are further. After local self-government comes the government, the regulation goes, the commission goes, everything will be published in the "Official Messenger", publicly, transparently.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46186	Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand everything you've said, I understand, I've been in the local administration for three years, I've been vice president of the municipality, and I understand that completely. However, wherece the need to keep, in every position, emphasizes that everything, with the consent of the Ministry, is. If you have explained me, by rejecting the amendments, that agricultural land is owned by the Republic of Serbia, that it has it, it is quite clear to me, rather than why the need to be behind each position, and when it comes to the actions carried out by the local administration stands – with the consent of the ministry. That's understood, probably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46188	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was filed by MP Marjana Marash. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Would you like a word now, Madam Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46189	I just want to point out that the law clearly provides for the possibility of breaking a contract with any investor who does not respect the agreement, who does not respect the contractual obligations. We didn't talk much about it today, because it's simply a limited time for exposure in this first part that speaks of the transparency of the agricultural land process in the lease on the basis of the right of the championship. So, it's a 30-year lease, and it's because it's an optimal time for funds to be recovered in a particular investment, and again I have to point out that the length of the lease was determined by the Association of Farmers in the cattle sector, and not one, but all cattlemen were unique, so they said 30 years. They've determined the length of the lease. But I must say, so this law is not passed for the term of office of this government, but for the next year, for the next decade and decades, if that's what we want. Therefore, anyone who is serious and who enters into the investment process will have to respect the commitments undertaken, because the law clearly provides that unless it is respected, or if the contractual obligations are not fulfilled, the contract is terminated by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46190	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46191	I thank you, Chairman. If there's anything left of the time of the authorised representative, given that he's not here, I'm the deputy head of the parliamentary group, I'm asking you to count on me for the first time, to stay for the parliamentary group. As for the proposed amendment to our colleague, Marjana Maras, first of all, I would like to thank the ministers and representatives of the Ministry for respecting the reasons, motives and the need for such an amendment to be found as an integral part of the law. It is, in fact, that these particular criticisms addressed to the work of units of local self-government responsible for the placement or sale of agricultural land are established by certain criteria. It is in this amendment that such criteria are set out where, when defining the area of the state agricultural land for sale are first started with the sale of small cadastrian parcels. For what? Because they are small cadastar plots, given their surface, and hence their value, a lower payload for those who buy them, which are small or small agricultural producers. On the other hand, it is these small or small agricultural producers who are able to buy what they can really buy, and in this way we are also saving the catastrian plots that represent the agricultural land of the state character, which, if there were no such way of selling, is the question – would they be attractive to sell at all if they were not sold according to these criteria. Probably wouldn't even be attractive. It is likely that such sales would not be affirmative, and therefore it is a very good solution both for the protection of small or small agricultural producers and for the protection of state agricultural land, which will surely be sold quickly in this way. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46192	Thank you. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46193	Time of authorized representative. So we have submitted an amendment which can be very helpful in solving this problem, and I think that the minister can show good will to accept because we are a member of 11, we have introduced a new Article 72g of the position of 2. changes and it is said that the agricultural land acquired on the basis of Article 1 of this article must not alienate at least 10 years from the date of conclusion of the buy-in contract and must be used in accordance with its purpose and for a period of at least 10 years from the date of conclusion of the buy-out contract. What did we want with these? In response to this amendment, you said that what we asked for in this amendment is that practically whoever purchases the land has no right to alienate it for 10 years, but we make it a commitment that it must land under the Law on the Processing and Use of Land can also lease it unless it is able to process it on its own in cases where you have, unfortunately, that it is a serious disease or another accident that makes it impossible for the owner of the land that he bought, why he would not rent it, and you are in response, or in response to Mr Bogdanovic, in response, put it in order not to promote the development of medium and small enterprises. I think you should think about this kind of solution that you would help people who are, we know that in the households are rural, nursing households and often the situation will happen if someone leaves something at their best to their children and is unable to process it. Why not allow if he has already bought and the owner of the country is obliged to commit him and provide him with the possibility that through this work he can give and that there is also a solution to renting that same land to which all that is given would apply, which is used in the rental solutions by the state, because it is practically no longer state land but private.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46194	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46195	Your Honor, here's a reason why we didn't accept this amendment. First of all, this institution sells state-owned agricultural land has its own purpose in order to exclusively assist agricultural landownerships in small and medium-sized areas. So, we didn't introduce this institute to earn from this sale, so that the state wouldn't even make a profit to free this country. In view of the goal we want to help, we expect the owners to use the same land by law. We also gave the opportunity thanks, again I must stress the government's insight and hearing, that this land is being paid back over the next 10 years. In doing so, we also say that in case the owner of the purchased land can no longer, for any reason, leave it, and you say he should leave it for his successors. Then it is expected for the heirs to take over his role and take care of him, but, of course, he does not have to, there is the possibility of breaking the contract, of returning the land to the property of the Serbian state, to return the money the buyer invested, reduced, of course, for the price of the lease. It is for the simple reason that this is exclusively the desire of the Serbian state to help agriculture, and we have to make it clear, and we have to say that this right is a government that wants to help farmers in this way, and that with this gesture it has shown by who knows which time in just a year and a half, how much it cares about agriculture and the farmer of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46196	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46197	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, we didn't seem to understand each other. We absolutely didn't understand each other, and nobody here argues that you want to help these legal solutions to farmers, and that's what we're all talking about. And you want and we want and in that greatest and greatest intention is the most common and the forest does not see the trees. What is the objective of this amendment is that someone who bought the land and worked for the best and worked for a period and unfortunately got sick, which can happen, that country can be leased so that the country doesn't work. I understand that you're passing the law that a country that doesn't work now and that it is reproductive. Can't be reproductive if someone bought it and he can't alienate it with it, but why couldn't he rent it? I mean, I wouldn't, it's late hours, I wouldn't chase, I don't think we're getting along and looking forward to it, I'm not happy with the way we've had this debate, but I'm glad we're all going to go home you'll see how excited the producers are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46198	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by Djordje Milicevic and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46199	Dear President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, as a brief follow-up to the previous story when the amendment to article 10 on the amendment to Article 11 that my colleague Djordje Milicevic and I have submitted, and I would like to thank the government for accepting the amendment, but I also want to say for the public's sake – and what the amendment asked for, so the government has accepted. Namely, Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land states, introduces five new members of 72 (a) b) b) g) d), talks about the sale, the partial sale of state land to small farmers, or as we may be able to say, the country to peasants. So, with the goal of helping small landowners increase their property, increase their income, increase their competition. Actually, it's a family matter, so to speak, the landowners and I think, I don't understand, everyone has a right, but I don't understand how someone can be against it, what does the state want to help small farmers? Under Article 11, there is a whole series of conditions to be met in order to sell the agricultural land. The first and main condition is to be a natural person, to be a citizen of Serbia, so again that he is not a foreigner, to have an active agricultural ownership for three years, registered as a resident, as I have seen one amendment to SVM, five years, says who can't be the one who can buy land, etc. What is specifically the subject of this amendment, the law here says, and that the one who buys this land must be concerned, therefore, to avoid any speculation. And then he says that whoever buys land, is talking about a small agricultural producer, a physical person, can't alienate him, to rent at least 10 years. Even I think there's been some kind of amendment where I'm looking for 15, and I'm totally okay with it. But it has been extended through the amendment that this applies to heirs, so not only to the buyer. The second part of the amendment is about the next thing. The bill stipulates that the buyer can in five, in wars of up to five years to pay off that purchased land. Our proposal was to increase to 10 years, and the government accepted it, and I think it showed hearing, which is what farmers also asked to increase that deadline, all in order to allow as many small farmers as possible to buy agricultural land. The third substance of this amendment, which was adopted, is exactly what it was just before it was spoken of, if it is not used in a way, if the contract is not executed by the buyer, that the contract can be broken and must be broken, those funds that he has paid, but that time is rejected, are considered as if it was a lease for that time held by the buyer in his property. So I repeat, the main thing is that it regulates precisely that it can be made easier, so 10 years to buy that land, but at the same time it is very precise that it cannot alienate that land for at least 10 years. I couldn't agree more if it was 15 years old. That is the essence of this amendment. In fact, both through this amendment and through amendments that also speak about Article 11 of this Law which had colleagues from the SVM and through several amendments that talked about the lease, the government has shown that it is actually interested in the best solution, when it comes to this law, solutions that will be implemented, solutions that will cover exactly everything that was the government's wish, which is at the same time to enable investors to invest, because it is important for the state of Serbia, but also small agricultural producers to encourage their work and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46200	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46201	Thank you, Madam President. Article 158. The chairman, Becic, said on several occasions that the SPS parliamentary group no longer has time for the parliamentary group. Now Mr. Petronijevic was speaking, I think, for four minutes or more than four minutes. Well, it's just, if we can talk as much as we want about the amendments, you say so, so we can all talk, no matter how long we have the MPs' group. (Igor Becic: I didn't say that.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46202	Please, Igor, don't be in the middle of the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46203	We're all tired, we've been working for days and so on, just to take care of the weather. Don't let a member of 158 apply to someone who doesn't. It's an intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46204	I don't know what Vice President Becic said when he said it, but another four and 50 means what's taken from him now. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Do you want a word? The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46205	President-in-Office, respected Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that a previous amendment has been adopted that resolves the purchase of land and moves from five to ten years. However, my amendment refers to one other part of this article 72g and, in fact, in Article 72g in the position of 2nd sentence: "At least 10 years", they are replaced by the words "at least 15 years". It is said that the agricultural land in the state property which is the subject of the purchase contract must not be alienated or leased for at least 10 years, and we propose - should not be alienated or leased for at least 15 years. This is not contrary to the already adopted amendment, it's just a matter of extending the deadline so it can't be alienated. I stress that in the first draft of the law, that is, in the draft law, the deadline for the ransom was five years, and the alienation could not be carried out for 10 years. Now, by adopting the previous amendment, we've come into a situation where as soon as the ransom of 10 years is over, if this stays as it's written, then it can be estranged at the moment. I believe that my amendment is not in contradiction and it does not bother the already adopted solutions and the accepted amendment and that it only improves the text in the sense that alienation cannot be carried out for 15 years, which means that again there remains a difference of five years between the completion of payment in ransom wars and the right to alienate. So please, dear minister, consider this and if it is possible to accept this part and in such a way we have a complete solution that would allow the right of alienation, or not to enter before the age of 15, which in the long line, this extension of the time limit for the ban on alienation and leases reduces the possibility of abuse in these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46206	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46207	Thank you. Your Honour, we believe that your proposal is quite right, that it is constructive, that it is in line with the amendment that has already been adopted. I would also like to point out that the government has both heard and understood and wanted to help Serbia's agriculture and farmers, and that is precisely what it has shown by accepting your amendment extending the deadline for the payment of the purchased country by five to 10 years. In that sense, and in that context, I believe that this amendment of yours is now, which you are proposing to extend the deadline for sale, a possible sale of purchased land from 10 to 15 years, quite fine. I can say, here, on your behalf and on behalf of the Government, your proposal is accepted. I think it's quite fine and quite in place. Perhaps this is an opportunity to point out that in the bill and predict the possibility that if the buyer is defined that after the deadline of 10 and 15 years, or now, it is decided to sell the land, the right of the championship has a Republic of Serbia, so that we also want to protect our land fund. This is just another proof that we want to help farmers, and we have no intention of getting rid of that land, nor do we intend to make big money, nor is it the subject of any special trade. Therefore, only assistance from a domestic farmer, small and medium, in order to achieve our strategic goals. Our strategic goal is to build up the property, and increase the economic strength of farmers and the food security of Serbian citizens on domestic farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46208	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46209	So, I submitted to Article 72d, which says – the funds achieved from the sale of agricultural land in state-owned income are the budgets of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment I made says the funds achieved from the sale of state-owned agricultural land amounting to 50% of the revenues are the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the amount of 50% of the income is the unit of local self-government. The ministry has rejected an amendment with an explanation, you say – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Republic of Serbia is listed as the owner of a state-owned agricultural land in the cataster of immovable property, and for this reason it generates revenue from the sale of that land, and you just said, a few minutes ago, I'm going to quote you -- it's not a country being sold to make money, but to help small and medium-sized agricultural entrepreneurs. I'll remind you of the beginning of our debate, where we've been conflicting with ideologically about Article 3 where you say, in Article 3(4). – if no plan is made to use state land is sanctioned by local self-government, by abolishing transfers, by suspending transfers of funds from the Republic, this is meant by transfers from higher levels of government. Come on, Madam Minister, let's have one political thread throughout the law. First, local self-government has an obligation to make a plan for what will be done with that country, to determine the part that will be sold, to prepare everything, to get your consent as Government and Ministry, and okay, so you say it should and will be so. When the land on the territory of the local self-government, on the territory, is sold, it is not a neighbouring municipality, but in the territory of local self-government, all the income of the Republic is complete money. Local self-government doesn't have a yellow bank. It has only responsibility, and the money obtained by selling goes directly to the Republic's budget and for a wonderful miracle, instead of coloring the money, because it's from the sale of land, it's money that goes as the income of the Republic's budget. What position? For what purposes will it be used? To reduce the budget deficit? That's the really bad policy you're up for. Come on, I understand that you've determined that this money will be used I don't know about some incentive, some stimulant, so fine. This, as a general income of the Republic's budget, bypass the local self-government on whose territory the country is located. It's their land, and local self-government. The fact that it's registered to the Republic, what does that have to do with anything? That one law here can change. How's that booked? What year – 1945? It's not politics. That's not good, and I think you need to fix all of this that we talked about today, if you really, really want to help agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46210	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46211	Dear MP, I would like to remind you that the funds, which are realised on the basis of the lease of agricultural land, are distributed in relation to 60% to 40%, 40% of local self-government. In the province, this relationship is 30 to 30 to 40%. When it comes to selling, it's about selling state agricultural land. The owner of the land is the Republic of Serbia. It's like that registered in the Catastre of immovableity. In that sense, the funds generated by the sale are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's a legal category. In doing so, you well know that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is not the budget of Belgrade or the budget of Cačka, it is the budget of all citizens. This budget is also funded by the local self-government that you mention, both education and health and agriculture, subsidies, etc. So I don't think there's any reason why you're expressing your concern about why this isn't going to local self-government. You mention the transfer of funds, so what means do we now stop if nothing local self-government gets out of the Republic of Serbia's budget? I think you're wrong, and in doing so, I want to say that, a little while ago, it wasn't enough time that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had given farmers the opportunity to increase and improve their production, and I mentioned that in the previous period it had done a number of other measures which, rather than declaratively, helped farmers. Let me just mention some of them. So, significantly higher allocations than planned for the agrarian budget, and last year, and this year, totalling nearly 15 billion. It identified significant resources for interventions on the market in agricultural products when problems were present. It has promoted agricultural products everywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46212	Thank you, Minister. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46213	Thank you. Madam Minister, I apologize. You're the minister, you missed the topic. You missed the subject. We're talking about the means that come true by selling the land, you're talking to me about transfers of higher levels of power. The higher level of government is being transferred from income tax, of 20%, will be 50 when this Assembly adopts the law, and that's what your assistants needed, you don't need to know, but they should have told you that they're not transfer funds. I'm talking about not writing how money will be used to buy land or land. sales. It's getting into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Where? What position? For what purposes? On the income side of the budget? Where? Where are you going to spend it? Where? Which ministry? That doesn't say. It doesn't say, and you should have written it. Second, why don't you leave a piece of the money? Well, you say that 60 percent of the rent remains local self-government, and the sale of the country, the neighbouring parcels, goes 100% to the Republic. What's the problem? What's the problem? Why isn't it the same condition as the lease? All right, that's good, 60% stays local self-government. She'll use it for her agrarian budget. Why don't you deliver that money and sell it? What's the problem? Why does he have to go to the Republic's budget? Provide that what remains of local self-government must be used to develop agriculture in that territory of local self-government. That would be a good law. That's what your policy and our policy differs in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46214	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46215	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46216	Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46217	Thank you. It is therefore a member who is changing Article 80, so that the Minister is deprived of the right to prescribe closer terms and procedures for the lease of agricultural land in the state property. We oppose the way you intend to regulate the terms and procedures of renting agricultural land to state property by this law. We believe that what you are trying to do is unfairly, in fact, what you are obviously going to do, because we see that even among MPs we do not come across an understanding of the amendments that we are proposing and that this bill will, in its own right, be supported. We believe that the way in which you are prescribing for the lease of agricultural land in the state property favours selected legal persons, that it goes to the harm of natural persons, or farmers who already have state land in lease, and that it will make it impossible for farmers from a large number of municipalities, which are, for example, surrounded by agricultural land, to plan for the next 30 years to stay in these municipalities, because there will be no country that they will be able to process because the best third country will take some legal persons by very strange procedures that they will have, of course, the first time to choose that country. So, given that we believe that it is a very unfair way for you to do so by this law, we suggest that this member be deleted, that the confiscation of that power be deleted, and I also call on the Members of the People to support this amendment and not to support this law in the day of voting, because the outcome will be the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46218	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46219	Thank you. We're going back to the same story. You persist in repeating falsehoods, and I insist on not allowing you to remain truthful without answering them. It is not true that we are making an appropriate climate for us familiar or unknown, to please investors, to make suitable soils for investors, to want to put our farmers in another plan. It is true that they will also have a chance to invest, but what is particularly important and what is the greatest range of this law is the chance for our small farmers to increase their property. That's what's true. That should always be pointed out. I repeat and raise this table again to see what our status is, how much we process, 248,000 acres or about 30%. Seventy percent of the land is free. They'll have the right to the championship and the sale, and they'll stay with us again, and we'll have unprocessed land again. I ask you all to help make this law applicable in practice. I heard and someone told me that there are those who are now preparing to interfere with the law and that they are working to keep these solutions from coming to life. We're used to distractions, and distractions, and untrues, and misinformation, but I believe the truth will win, I believe our farmers will know who really wants them well, who's really helping them on...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46220	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46221	... the way that's possible. He doesn't just defend them on words and only when they need their voices.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46222	The amendment, which is added to Article 12a, was jointly submitted by the MPs of the LSV parliamentary group. On the basis of Article 163 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives have rejected this amendment, and this amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 13 of the amendment. On the basis of Article 163 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected the amendment. So there is no argument about him, nor is there any vote on him. The amendment, added after Article 13 of the new Article 13a, was jointly submitted by the MPs of the LSV parliamentary group. On the basis of Article 163 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected the amendment. This amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 15, the People's MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. On Article 16 of the amendment was filed by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46223	Thank you. This is the last amendment I'm going to explain under this bill. We no longer know what words to say that we oppose the adoption of such a bill. You're saying we're telling the truth. The law states that the right of the lease has legal persons for a period of 30 years and that this applies to 30% of each municipality. Given that there are a large number of families that have a state-owned lease, we conclude on the basis of a clear logic that these people will have the right to process the country taken away, because the country they are processing will go to some investor, and in public it is mentioned that these are pre-determined people. If this law is passed we will call upon the President of the Republic not to sign it. He's done it in the past. Then he actually confirmed what we were saying and then we said the law was against the constitution. We hope that he will do so, and if that's not the case those farmers who were here behind the Assembly, because of the beautiful Brena and the Tropico band couldn't approach the Assembly, they told us, they actually told you one thing, and that's to remember that you're not going to be MPs forever and that you need to go back to where you live. That is how you should remember, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that you will not forever be a minister, that you should return. In any case, when the DS has responsibility for the functioning of the government, every contract that is in this untransparent way will be terminated and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have the same treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46224	Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46225	Here, on the last review under this law of the previous letter, I would like to say this. I think today's criticism on the basis of what she said was, based on misinformation, not on facts, not on the basis of the state that is evident in this area. The state has taken the obligation and responsibility to settle issues in the area of agricultural land available in public property. It is her obligation and responsibility both to the citizens and to the farmers. We have prepared a law that has respected the current situation and has respected the fact that 98% are small and medium-sized agricultural holdings and we wanted to help them above all. That is why it has been proposed and I believe that a solution will also be adopted that they can buy a certain portion of the state agricultural land. So, they can buy up to 20 hectares of state land by 30 hectares, increase their land, increase their economic power and be more competitive and ready on the market for agricultural products by some year, precisely that market that you opened for us before it should be opened, in terms of free flow, in terms of the signed SAA, so our farmers are now unprepared for that same market. We have suggested that one part of the land be leased for large investors, but in the lease of up to 30 years and up to 30% with the desire to encourage the restoration of processing capacity, the dairy industry, to encourage the restoration of those factories dealing with the processing of raw materials, fruit, the production of juices, etc. And it's all again in the function of agriculture and agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46226	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Proposal for a law on the protection of land. You have received amendments from MPs, you have received a report from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. On behalf of Chapter I, the title above Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. To the name above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Aleksandra Jerkov. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mladenovic to the 2nd amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46227	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable President, I felt it necessary that an existing Article 2 be made known. The Law on the Protection of Lands, which reads - the provisions of this law are applied to land as a natural resource, regardless of the form of property of its application and use, so that the provisions of this law apply to all types of land of the Republic of Serbia as a natural resource regardless of its form of property, its purpose and its use. So the key words added are all types of land of the Republic of Serbia, and the reasons why Article 2. The Law on the Protection of Land should be complemented by words – all types of land of the Republic of Serbia are in the next. When we say all types of land, then we point to the heterogeneity of the land of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. we indicate that the land of the Republic of Serbia is heterogeneous, which is certainly a comparative advantage over the land of the countries in the environment. When we say all types of land, then we cover all types of land because every type of land we respect and has its own natural value, and that's how we capture both the types of land of the pursuers and the types of land of the pits and the types of land of the Chernozem, etc. When we say the Republic of Serbia, in this way we define the territorial framework on which the Law on the Protection of Land is applied, given that the Law on the Protection of Land is the law of the Republic of Serbia, it is logical that its territory, i.e. the application of this legal solution, is located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As a fourth, this solution provides the complexity of the Law on the Protection of Land, this is obtained at its Celebrity. This law gives it complexity and completeness and, of course, special importance and the expensiveness of this law is that no country in the environment has a law on the protection of land. Only Croatia has a proposal similar to the law on the protection of land, but has not yet been brought into their assembly. Thank you to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for your understanding, thank you, dear Minister and your associates, for understanding and accepting this amendment. I just want to repeat once again that the Law on the Protection of Land, together with the Law on Changes and Supplements of Agricultural Land, has full application and full effects when seen and synergies are common, which enables the Law on Agricultural Land, i.e. its amendments and additions to open doors to investors and improve agricultural production, and the Law on the Protection of Land to use land in the right way for generations and generations to come. There is no doubt that the state of Serbia is going further into reforms with these two legal solutions. Thank you, I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46228	Thank you. On behalf of the above members of the 3rd and Article 3rd amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46229	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as Parliament Speaker Mrs Gojkovic has now said, the amendment to Article 3 submitted by us MPs of the New Party is one of four amendments to the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land. Since I believe that there is an interest among MPs, if perhaps there was no time to read what was accepted and the content of the bill has changed, among citizens and citizens, here I am also to inform about the change. Therefore, Article 3 states – the aim of this law is to, well, have one part, so it is added – to prevent or remove harmful land changes that can result in ten points of order, as a consequence of what. We did two things, of course. One is, we changed the order of these dots a little bit, and then we added two things. One thing, as a consequence of the erosion processes, was that it was in one of the points, but we felt that it had to be singled out and defined as a priority, and we put it in point 11) that the aim of this law was to prevent or eliminate harmful land change, which could result from the exploitation of gravel, stone and sand. That didn't fit in the original text. We have suggested that the original text be changed and the government is to our satisfaction, I believe the satisfaction of the citizens of our Republic, accepted this amendment. I think it might be my turn for Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, who, every opportunity she had, to direct a few words of criticism, to say that something is not nice, that something is not constructive, when she noticed with opposition MPs. To now, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, to sign up for the word, to signal to Mrs Gojkovic - I would like to say that I respect the expertise that opposition MPs are bringing into our debates and that because of this, I appreciate that kind of approach, that about you in particular... You accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46230	Thank you. Ambassador Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46231	Dear President, I have responded to the amendment to Article 3. Balsa Bozovica, but you probably...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46232	There's been a discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46233	It has passed, but here I am going to join here with the support of this amendment proposed by Mr Pavicevic and we support his amendment, but in fact in the context of Article 3, I would like to say that this law is actually in a comprehensive way of regulating and protecting the environment, as an economic resource of national interest, but the protection of land is not only of national interest, it is of international interest, I would say, and it is a universal category, such as the government of the Republic of Serbia, so that, with the fact that this law is passed in Serbia as the first law of that kind, it is very important to send the words of praise to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment, as well as to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to propose one such law. So, such proposals for abolishing, for example, Article 1 or Article 3, is actually one pure obstruction, they have no basis or argument, and with that in connection, I want to say that we need to support everything that was constructive. Here to return to Mr Pavicevic's amendment. It's one example of construction in this case, which wasn't always the case and we don't always support it, but we support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46234	The name above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. The name above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by Balsa Bozovic. The name above article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46235	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had to, I know we're tired and I know we've been working all day, but I definitely had to report for these amendments. I have not reported to the first member, not by the third, not by the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, they are all the same and all of them by Mr Bozovic, asking to be deleted by those members. Among other things, as incorrect as it is, he's not even present first, and on the other hand, I'm going to tell you what he's asking in this amendment to delete himself from the law. To delete "land protection entities". It means that "the protection of land within all powers and obligations is secured by the Republic, the AP, the unit of local self-government, legal persons, entrepreneurs, or owners, land users, who are endangering, degraded or polluting land". Imagine someone asking for this to be erased from the law, as they asked to be erased from the law by the first member - the subject of the law, the purpose of the law, the meaning of the term, the principle of land protection, so how long? As long as we're really obliged to experience someone's frustrations and listen, to write us powerful amendments that have nothing to do with the brain? Probably never, ever in the world, in the history of parliamentaryism, has anyone written similar amendments asking to erase something that is incompatible with common sense. You know, someone in this country used to say that the opposition should attack and undo everything that the government proposes, whether it's good or less good. The insistent opposition to that is holding, unaware that this is something that perhaps at some point in this country may have been acceptable, but today, when the awareness and political awareness of the citizens is on a far higher level than it used to be, when people know to assess what's good, what's not, when they know that they're assessing who wants to bring something to this country good, and who doesn't, I think, by our opposition, they've given these amendments, they're really declassified. If someone thinks they're going to get political points this way, believe me, I think they're very small. On the other hand, I have the impression that pointing to these huge gaps and mistakes and ignorance and incompetence they had while they were in power is causing incredible hatred in view of what is happening today in Serbia, seeing that Serbia has taken a serious and real step and the right path to create its future, it is the source of their incompetence and the source of their even greater hatred, when it comes to current power. So, that's it -- it's wiped out, there's no more, people, there's no more erasure, there's nothing left. The country has moved forward and does not want to erase, but writes, Serbia's history of modern, developed and just Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46236	The 6th Amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Balša Bozovic. The 7th Amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. On behalf of Glava II and Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The name above article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was filed by Alexander Jerkov. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46237	Dear ladies and gentlemen, here it is now necessary for Mrs. Gojkovic, precisely Mr. Blažić to try to explain why it is sometimes necessary to delete something from a member of the law. Here, we can discuss a little with really one wonder here, to say that the minister can't say a word of praise for some action, which means expertise and on this side, very easily declares the words of criticism. Here, for example, Article 9. Here, Mr. Bliss, I'm trying to explain to you now. We, for example, are MPs of the New Party, against the accumulation of words, think it is too high, and in Article 9, we have noticed that there are some excess words, gentlemen. The law shouldn't always be intense. This is an example of one law, where one member is extensive. For example, in paragraph 2, here, Mr Blazi, we both follow, says – the measures and conditions of land protection for sustainable land use are an integral part of the planning documents. Well, that's an extra formulation in our court. This amendment has not been accepted, but I think this is excessive, since all this has already been arranged by the Law on Planning and Construction. What do we do now at 15, 25, in every law to repeat something that says. There's a way to direct a man to that there must be harmony between the two laws. To us, here's what Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic thinks, that these two attitudes, attitude 2 and attitude 3 are inserted here for aesthetic reasons. For example, Mrs Bogosavljevic reads if she only stands at attitude 1, which is fine, and then she says, with something I'm very little about having just attitude one and then this way out of pure one aesthetics, let me add attitude 2 and attitude 3. Dear gentlemen, we do not have to say "nice" to praise the law. For the law, it's enough to say it's good. The accumulation of words does not contribute to the quality of the law. Here, Mr. Bliss, I'm very interested in what you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46238	Thank you. Under the name above the 10th and the 10th amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46239	Dear ladies and gentlemen, here's another member of the law that we can relate to, Mr. Blazic to hear, and to the previous discussion. I would now, for example, be very interested in checking in a dialogue to see if it is ever worth submitting the amendment "expunging". For example, I think this article is worth 10. Why? Here, I put a note here for myself. So the laws, like I said, shouldn't be intense. We need it when the laws are written, I think, to think about making them clear, to be precise, and when it comes to their application, of course, to embrace some kind of equality in front of the law of every citizen. Here in Article 10 we have, I think, also piling up some words that do not contribute to the rule of law. Here's, for example, attitude one. – The land is used according to the purpose specified in the planning documents. It's already arranged elsewhere. Mr. Bliss, right? There you go, Mr. Babic. Article 2 – When the plan document changes the purpose of land, the authority responsible for the adoption of the plan document is obliged to hold the consent of the Ministry in the decision-making process. Well, you already know that. Now the question for me is – what is the purpose of gathering a large number of words? It may occur to me, for example, that the idea of a legislator is that one who reads this law doesn't have to agree now, to ask, to see where it is in other places now, but it is necessary for those who do this work. So, what did I want? To a little bit resent Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, which of these eight amendments, which we have submitted to this bill, did not accept all eight, because it seems to me that the arguments are fundamental and based on the profession. We know each other's laws, gentlemen, and I think that kind of approach should be adorn all the MPs. Isn't that right, Mrs. Bogosavljevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46240	Thank you. The Word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46241	Madam President, Madam Minister, where fortunately we had this article 10th or such a similar member of the law, not to be erased, as suggested. We wouldn't be in a situation that's now filling up the daily press, and we wouldn't be able to find other places on Ustasha Street, and there's a special prosecutor's office building and a special court for organized crime, so there'd be no former ministers and some other people there if there were such, say, members of the law. If there were such a member of the law, agricultural land would not have changed, or city building land would not have changed in the amount of a billion and 540 million dinars for agricultural land of 13 million and 612 thousand dinars. Because, you know, you can't change the land by trading 20 acres of building land by 20 acres of city building. Someone's going to ask a question -- sorry, how much is one, and how much is the other? It took a change of government, it took one freedom of the prosecution and the judicial authorities to work in accordance with the laws, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to relieve all party ties and the disciplines under which the judiciary was under until 2012 in this famous reform of the judiciary, so that someone would ask themselves, excuse me, and how much did the 20 hectares of agricultural land cost? Thirteen million. And why did you trade it for 20 acres of construction after the state gave 20 acres of construction land and thus a private company, a private company, once honored by the minister's decision with more than a billion and 400, almost a billion and 500 million dinars? If there was such a thing as Article 10(2), which the proposer wants to delete, so he can ask professional and scientific organisations, so if the minister doesn't know it's not the same price as agricultural and city building land, he'll ask the profession, he'll ask science. I don't understand why a fellow who fights so hard for academic honesty, why does he want to throw science out of all this? Why should scientific organizations not give their judgment? I think all of what you predicted in law, Madam Minister, is that it gives to transparency. These are the reflectors we want to include, not the eclipse in which the vineyard appears, and you have no agricultural land, you see an hour's grant of 500 thousand euros, you don't see them, you see an hour of 500 thousand euros, you see apartments on Vrakar. We don't want that eclipse anymore. We don't give the eclipse. That's what the amendment's proposing wants them to do to turn off the lights. And when the reflectors are turned off, when the public's attention is turned off, then the pockets of the political elite are filled. We don't want to let that happen. This is another lighting of reflectors and scientific and professional public and we will never run away from it. That's why a SNS amendment like this will never be acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46242	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46243	I'd like to answer, since I've been called "expunge". You know, you compare "wipe" completely in the function of destruction and obstruction. Are you not going to say that these previous members I pointed out to, that Mr Bozovic has made amendments that should be deleted, that it is logical and that it is normal? If that's what you're saying, then I agree that you'll be with them on that side. What you're proposing here is erasing certain words, in the sense that you think you're going to make that member look better in style, that's something completely different, and it has nothing to do with what I'm saying. But one thing is for sure, speaking of planning documents, you should know that this is the first law Serbia gets when it comes to the protection of land and that until today Serbia had no law to view land as a natural resource and to protect it. This is a new thing that has come and this is an orderly system that needs to be done in terms of land management and land management, how land control and land protection should be carried out against pollution, and how land monitoring is to be monitored in the state of Serbia. That's the right approach. Now, if you're going to throw out one word or two or not, that doesn't really change. But don't just ask you, as an academic citizen, as a doctor, to defend something that's a form of obstruction, a classic form of obstruction to erase the basic concepts of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46244	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. On behalf of members 11th and Article 11th, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. On behalf of Glava III and Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 13 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Under the name above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. On Article 14 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Under the name above Articles 15 and 14 of the amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. On behalf of members 16 and Article 16 of the amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. Under the name above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic submitted. On behalf of the above members of the 18th and of the 18th Amendment, MP Alexander Jerkov submitted. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46245	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure that the President of the National Assembly reads this explicitly that one amendment of us New Party MPs has been accepted. Here we are talking about an amendment to Article 18. Proposal for a law on the protection of land. I would now like to inform all the MPs, of course both citizens and citizens of our Republic, what was the proposal for an amendment sent by Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic and the minister, as she signed, for the reasons set out in the explanation, accepted our amendment. In fact, we suggested adding another point, such as point 18, point 1 of Article 18, as well as the order, measures to protect land, we also proposed bans, unplanned and uncontrollable exploitation of gravel and sand from riverbeds, water streams and their influential areas. Two things are important here. One thing, we offered, I mean a very precise, very clear explanation, without extra words, respected gentlemen, and sentences, and then, I think, the minister showed what dedicated work in the legislative body means. This amendment in this article tied to that amendment we proposed by amendment to Article 3 when we talked about gravel and sand and what did we show? When laws are written, gentlemen, even when writing and proposing amendments, it is necessary to always have the whole picture in front of us, what the law is, but also a picture of how this area is further regulated by other legislative projects. I now expect that Mrs Bogosavljevic will also say bravo and congratulate, and of course Mr Babić and Mr Martinović and Mr Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46246	Thank you, if you're done. Under the name above the 19th and the 19th amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46247	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have also submitted an amendment to the 19th Amendment of the Law, but this amendment, unfortunately for us, and I also think, unfortunately, of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not accepted. We have suggested that Article 19 leaves only Article 3, because only Section 3 is read carefully about what this Member of the Law is referring to. Note, the title above article 19 sets out the limit values and in paragraph 3 very fine, precise, reads clearly: “In order to protect the quality of land and the environment, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, determines the limit values of polluting, harmful and dangerous substances in the country. ” When we read attitudes 1 and 2, we noticed that the stated attitudes 1 and 2 are not in any way related to what is the name of this member and the limit values. Here, let us check ourselves, dear gentlemen, and here is Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, in attitude 1: “The release and disposal of polluting, harmful and dangerous substances and waste water to the surface of land and land is forbidden. ” There's no dilemma, but what does that have to do with limit values now, for example? Here, gentlemen, let's see, let's open up a dialogue a little bit about this, so it's not just agricultural land all day, but also the protection of land to be here on the subject of debate. Or attitude 2 says: “The properties of land can only change in order to improve quality, in accordance with its purpose. ” I'm in agreement. It's possible that the contents of these views can find a place in the second part of this bill, perhaps? But here, where the limit values are written, we felt that the content of attitude 3 was sufficient and that everything was clear, that we would not build up again and for this article many words and sentences, respected gentlemen, and that, under the reflectors of Mr Babic, we would agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46248	Time, thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46249	The limits are dangerous, the limit values are dangerous, because when you have limits and when your land pollution is at the limit you will pass this way. In the opinion of the SNS, this distinguishes our policies, we will never go along the border, we will always try to keep the land as healthy as possible, as best as possible, and not as polluted as possible. And, for that reason, I think the attitudes of 1 and 2, which the amendment's proposing wants to erase, are very dangerous, because if we keep going and saying everything is allowed to the border and if you're on the border, it's allowed, I think it's a dangerous thing to do. There's going to be an incident, something that's going to make us, not willingly cross that line, and then what are we going to do? You know, you can't say, saving the environment is so we're at a border. You know, it's good to have five things, percentages, permeations, or what, smog, I guess we need to have clean air? It is not good to send a message it is good to have there and that limit value of some polluting materials in the land. Well, I guess it takes that line, not that line, but the level of pollution to be zero. Why be at the border? Why should it be dirty? Well, imagine that this country in Frustia Mountain, where Zoran Zivkovic built a vineyard, was polluted, border-polluting. Would he then apply for aid of 500,000 euros? Would he get that 500,000 euros for a vineyard here, or for that agricultural well-being in Meroshina? It is likely that, because he did not plant it, he did not bother around that vineyard, and we see how easily he found his way from this vineyard from the budget to the vineyard and from the vineyards to the apartments in Vračar. That road is very easy to find just when it's looking for these limits. That's why I think the amendment promoter has failed this time, I was just about to write a complimentary note on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, but as soon as we use this -- it's deleted, it's completely back to normal, so I'm sorry, Mr. Martinovic and I had a good will and you and I, but we had to take that thank-you note back and of course we won't vote for these border amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46250	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 26, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 28th Amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46251	Dear ladies and gentlemen, here is the opportunity for the SNS gentlemen to show one consistency and especially Mr Babic and that contrary to the opinion of Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic votes for the amendment that we submitted to Article 31. Here's the thing, gentlemen. When I explained our amendment to article 10, Mr Babic called for the scientific community, our researchers, and here's what we noticed here, says Article 31. – Land monitoring shall be carried out by an authorised legal person in accordance with accredited methods and, under one, by the competent accreditation body, by an accreditation act. And we're adding, gentlemen and gentlemen, I think this supplement of ours is absolutely consistent with the argument Mr. Babic gave to preserve Article 10. We add – or a solution to accreditation of scientific research by the Ministry of Science. Dear gentlemen, it seems to us that this change in the content of article 1 of Article 31 would actually respect the importance and significance of the action of our academic community, our scientific community, our researchers and I now expect, Your Honor, that Mr Babic should report for the word and say Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that since he wants to be consistent in his discussions in the Assembly to vote in favour of this amendment. Of course, to remain in point 2) of this proposal as Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic sent us, which means that the land monitoring is authorised by accredited methods, and according to point 2) the ministry's solution. We have an addition that respects exactly what the MPs of the ruling majority are calling upon, and I'm very interested in what they're about to do. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46252	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46253	Ladies and gentlemen, here's what's been accepted by this amendment, and I'm just going to read the sentences that have been accepted, gentlemen. Here's what's been accepted: "The ministry is developing a pedodological map for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The minister prescribes content and method of drawing up a pedological map. Noveling a pedology card is done for ten years. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Water Management, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Forest Affairs are building a map of erosion for the territory of the Republic of Serbia." Dear gentlemen, if that is not enough, if there is yet to be a sentence, here is another stance – the minister responsible for environmental protection affairs, the minister responsible for water affairs, the minister responsible for agricultural affairs and the minister responsible for forest affairs, prescribe the content and method of drawing up a map of erosion. These are all sentences, respected gentlemen whom we have carefully waxed, for our amendment debate, regarding the discussion of the proposal for a law on the protection of land. I can now say, Mrs Bogosavljevic, to congratulate her, which is what she read our amendments carefully, which is what the associates and associates of Mrs Bogosavljevic have carefully read our argument and have accepted these arguments, but I expect one step further, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, to report now for the word and to say – every honour to opposition MPs who have in this way waxed sentences in our bill proposal, to improve the quality of the law proposal, and not to retain Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, only on the words of criticism and the objections of the opposition today in the debate. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46254	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46255	I want to say that it is not true that I am only criticising and not accepting amendments, and we have repeatedly shown that all constructive amendments, amendments in the spirit of the law, which we propose, accept, no matter what MP groups we come from. As we have adopted several amendments to this law today, so have we, and indeed, for these amendments that do not contain a provision – it is deleted, I welcome you, I congratulate you on these amendments, I thank you and I hope that the accepted amendments that are indeed in the spirit of the law and show grinding, a great desire to really contribute to the improvement of the text, that you will encourage us to work on the preparation of such amendments in the coming period, rather than the amendment of the type "wipe" or "type" - point, point, point, little or big letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46256	National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 34th amendment. On Article 34, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 35th Amendment. On behalf of Head VI and Member of the 36th Amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. In the name above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment, MP Alexander Jerkov submitted. On behalf of Chapter VII, the name above Article 38 and Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Under the name above Articles 39 and Article 39 of the amendment, MP Alexander Jerkov submitted. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46257	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, I would like to express great satisfaction, which is the amendment submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS and the ZS, which has shown that our participation in the debate has one constructive character and that, when we understand each other, solutions are very easy to come by. As far as this law is concerned, I also said in principle that this is an exceptional European law, that it has some small things to fix, but it is certainly not a bad law and should be supported. We believe that this argument that we have given for amendment to Article 39 concerning protection, land used by the Ministry of Defence, is entrusted to the Ministry of Defence with inspection of the application of this law and regulations adopted under this law, and within the framework of a partial inspection established by this law. Since it is a specific situation where the military polygons use artificial means, which perform tests, i.e. certain training with the use of the facts of the RHB and normally perform the ABH resuscitation of the terrain, we think it is important that you have seen and accepted this and for every commendation I as a colleague Pavicevic, I expect you to commend me, too, since we have had some more difficult situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46258	National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 40th amendment. In the name above Articles 41 and 41 of the amendment, MP Alexander Jerkov submitted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The 42nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. On behalf of Chapter VIII, the name above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The name above Articles 44 and 44 of the amendment was filed by MP Alexander Jerkov. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 44 after Article 2, we have added new positions 3 and 4 which read: "to a legal person who has been punished for the violation of Article 1 of this article, the prohibition of performance of six months to three years is mandatory. The responsible person in the legal person who has been punished for the infringement of Article 1 of this Article shall be obliged to impose a prohibition on the conduct of transactions, i.e. on the management of duties committed during the time of the conduct of the infringements of between six months and three years." The reason for this is, given the importance of the law, that is, the substance it regulates, we believe that it is explicitly necessary to regulate this law to give the legal person, the person responsible for the conduct of the offence, the measure of banning the exercise of activity, that is to say, to carry out operations between six months and three years. The planned solution is in accordance with the Law on Violations, Articles 56 and 57. We feel that we may need to have a stricter policy in order to get used to protecting the country as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46260	The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46261	We are in Article 45 after Article 1 is added the new position 2 which reads: “The entrepreneur who has been punished for the violation of Article 1 of this Article shall be obliged to impose a ban on the performance of six months to three years. ” In view of the importance of the law, i.e. the substance that regulates it, we believe that it is explicitly necessary to regulate the legal person, i.e. the person responsible for the offence committed, to impose a prohibition on the exercise of activity and this is all provided for by the Law on Infringements, Article 55. Such an amendment could fix, that is to say, a positive effect on those who may not have the intention or have it to violate this member of the law and thus prevent them from polluting the human environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46262	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to the 46th Amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Pavicevic, I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46263	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last address not only during this session of the Second Regular Session, but this is the last session in the course of the Second Regular Session in 2015 at all. Dear gentlemen, the final address for the accepted amendment to Article 46. The bill of law and for me is a great pleasure, here, first of all, to tell Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, which is what I have said here and the debates in which I take part, I can round up one of the instructions and a message that it is rounding up the debate on the accepted amendment that I have been working on. It is, of course, an opportunity for me to declare one victory, not only of the opposition but of parliamentaryism in our country, but it is for me an opportunity and a reason to remind ourselves of the importance and meaning of our National Assembly in our constitutional system. It should always be reminded, especially in these circumstances, that our National Assembly, our central political institution, we, I think, have agreed here, the sanctuary of political life and in this spirit, I think, should always approach and debate all the points of the agenda at all the sessions in all the regular sessions and extraordinary sessions of our National Assembly. The team, and since tomorrow we only have to vote, which is an important thing, I would like all of us, respected gentlemen, who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also citizens of the world, to congratulate the New Year, and to do even more seriously, more dedicated, more diligently, in order for our legislative work to have the best possible consequences for all of our citizens and for all the people who visit our country. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46264	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Where you will be more pleased to have the final address of the accepted amendment at the end of the calendar year and to such an important law for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. In the name of Chapter VIII. And the 48th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46265	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have in accordance with the previous amendments brought these other members in line, so in Article 48 instead of a year's term of three months, because the time limit of a year proposed by the legislator is unacceptable, so we suggest that the deadline be reduced to three months. We think it's very important because the law will be applied sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46266	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46267	Thank you. I am taking this opportunity, since it is before the end of the debate on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Lands, to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate and in principle and who submitted amendments to this law. It is true that this law remained in the shadow of the Law on Agricultural Land, which is understandable, because the first one is the law concerning the daily life of farmers, but this Law on the Protection of Land is a really important law, the law that is first passed in the Republic of Serbia and which has a unique goal of having matters of protection and regulation of land at all, not only of agriculture, offices to establish a monitoring system, a monitoring system, to establish measures not only of preservation, but also of recycling, remediation of damaged land. This law was also our international obligation in line with the international commitments undertaken, in terms of the conventions signed, and I want to highlight my satisfaction and to commend the MPs who contributed to this law really good through its constructive amendments, and this time I want to point out that this law is also supported by opposition MPs, is not with us today a representative of the Greens, but last time the debate was in principle, and he commended it. This is exactly what gives us all the strength to believe that environmental issues, issues that do not have a political context, are simply issues that we all want to deal with together. I think it would be extremely good and useful if these other issues, when it comes to agricultural problems, problems in the area of agriculture, were a little bit more understanding and a little more support for what this government and this ministry are clearly making to help, to fix, to improve, and to simply bring agriculture to some level that I suppose you would like, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46268	Thank you. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46269	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, this is the last amendment I will report to. So it's about deadlines and I want to praise this law, to thank you once again for your constructive approach, and we don't think there's any reason why there's no vote for this law, because it's civilized and for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-28-0.u46270	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 50th Amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 52nd Amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 54th Amendment. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and given that it has already voted on the first 53rd point, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Tuesday, December 29th, 2015, starting at 10.00pm as a day for voting on the remaining items of the 10th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I thank all the Members of the People for their participation in today's debate. I thank the ministers and members of the government.
